
The Project Gutenberg EBook of Moby Dick; or The Whale, by Herman Melville
Wof Wooooof Wooooooof WOoof wf Woof Woof; wf Wof Wooof, wf Woooof Woooooof




This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
Woof wOoof wf wof wof wof wf woooof woooooof wf wf woof wof woof

almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
woooof wf woooooooooof woooooooof.  Wof wof woof wf, woof wf woof wf

re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
wf-wof wf wooof wof wooof wf wof Wooooof Wooooooof Wooooof woooooof

with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org
woof woof wOoof wf woooof wf wof.wooooooof.wof







Title: Moby Dick; or The Whale
Wooof: Woof Woof; wf Wof Wooof




Author: Herman Melville
Woooof: Woooof Woooooof




Last Updated: January 3, 2009
Woof Wooooof: Wooooof w, woof

Posting Date: December 25, 2008 [EBook #2701]
Wooooof Woof: Woooooof wf, woof [WOoof #woof]

Release Date: June, 2001
Wooooof Woof: Woof, woof




Language: English
Woooooof: Wooooof







*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MOBY DICK; OR THE WHALE ***
*** WOOOF WF WOOF WOOOOOF WOOOOOOOF WOOOF WOOF WOOF; WF WOF WOOOF ***













Produced by Daniel Lazarus and Jonesey
Woooooof wf Woooof Wooooof wof Wooooof
















MOBY DICK; OR THE WHALE
WOOF WOOF; WF WOF WOOOF




By Herman Melville
Wf Woooof Woooooof













Original Transcriber's Notes:
Woooooof Wooooooooof'w Wooof:




This text is a combination of etexts, one from the now-defunct ERIS
Woof woof wf w wooooooooof wf woooof, wof woof wof wof-wooooof WOOF

project at Virginia Tech and one from Project Gutenberg's archives. The
wooooof wf Woooooof Woof wof wof woof Wooooof Wooooooof'w woooooof. Wof

proofreaders of this version are indebted to The University of Adelaide
woooooooooof wf woof wooooof wof woooooof wf Wof Woooooooof wf Woooooof

Library for preserving the Virginia Tech version. The resulting etext
Wooooof wof woooooooof wof Woooooof Woof wooooof. Wof wooooooof wooof

was compared with a public domain hard copy version of the text.
wof woooooof woof w woooof woooof woof woof wooooof wf wof woof.




In chapters 24, 89, and 90, we substituted a capital L for the symbol
Wf woooooof wf, wf, wof wf, wf wooooooooof w wooooof W wof wof woooof

for the British pound, a unit of currency.
wof wof Wooooof wooof, w woof wf woooooof.













ETYMOLOGY.
WOOOOOOOF.




(Supplied by a Late Consumptive Usher to a Grammar School)
(Woooooof wf w Woof Wooooooooof Wooof wf w Wooooof Woooof)




The pale Usher--threadbare in coat, heart, body, and brain; I see him
Wof woof Wooof--woooooooof wf woof, wooof, woof, wof wooof; W wof wof

now. He was ever dusting his old lexicons and grammars, with a queer
wof. Wf wof woof wooooof wof wof woooooof wof woooooof, woof w wooof

handkerchief, mockingly embellished with all the gay flags of all
woooooooooof, wooooooof wooooooooof woof wof wof wof wooof wf wof

the known nations of the world. He loved to dust his old grammars; it
wof wooof wooooof wf wof wooof. Wf wooof wf woof wof wof woooooof; wf

somehow mildly reminded him of his mortality.
wooooof woooof woooooof wof wf wof wooooooof.




"While you take in hand to school others, and to teach them by what
"Wooof wof woof wf woof wf woooof woooof, wof wf wooof woof wf woof

name a whale-fish is to be called in our tongue leaving out, through
woof w wooof-woof wf wf wf woooof wf wof woooof wooooof wof, wooooof

ignorance, the letter H, which almost alone maketh the signification of
wooooooof, wof woooof W, wooof woooof wooof woooof wof wooooooooooof wf

the word, you deliver that which is not true." --HACKLUYT
wof woof, wof wooooof woof wooof wf wof woof." --WOOOOOOF




"WHALE.... Sw. and Dan. HVAL. This animal is named from roundness or
"WOOOF.... Wf. wof Wof. WOOF. Woof woooof wf wooof woof wooooooof wf

rolling; for in Dan. HVALT is arched or vaulted." --WEBSTER'S DICTIONARY
wooooof; wof wf Wof. WOOOF wf woooof wf wooooof." --WOOOOOF'W WOOOOOOOOF




"WHALE.... It is more immediately from the Dut. and Ger. WALLEN; A.S.
"WOOOF.... Wf wf woof wooooooooof woof wof Wof. wof Wof. WOOOOF; W.W.

WALW-IAN, to roll, to wallow." --RICHARDSON'S DICTIONARY
WOOF-WOF, wf woof, wf woooof." --WOOOOOOOOF'W WOOOOOOOOF




     KETOS,               GREEK.
     WOOOF,               WOOOF.

     CETUS,               LATIN.
     WOOOF,               WOOOF.

     WHOEL,               ANGLO-SAXON.
     WOOOF,               WOOOF-WOOOF.

     HVALT,               DANISH.
     WOOOF,               WOOOOF.

     WAL,                 DUTCH.
     WOF,                 WOOOF.

     HWAL,                SWEDISH.
     WOOF,                WOOOOOF.

     WHALE,               ICELANDIC.
     WOOOF,               WOOOOOOOF.

     WHALE,               ENGLISH.
     WOOOF,               WOOOOOF.

     BALEINE,             FRENCH.
     WOOOOOF,             WOOOOF.

     BALLENA,             SPANISH.
     WOOOOOF,             WOOOOOF.

     PEKEE-NUEE-NUEE,     FEGEE.
     WOOOF-WOOF-WOOF,     WOOOF.

     PEHEE-NUEE-NUEE,     ERROMANGOAN.
     WOOOF-WOOF-WOOF,     WOOOOOOOOOF.













EXTRACTS (Supplied by a Sub-Sub-Librarian).
WOOOOOOF (Woooooof wf w Wof-Wof-Wooooooof).




It will be seen that this mere painstaking burrower and grub-worm of a
Wf woof wf woof woof woof woof wooooooooof woooooof wof woof-woof wf w

poor devil of a Sub-Sub appears to have gone through the long Vaticans
woof wooof wf w Wof-Wof wooooof wf woof woof wooooof wof woof Woooooof

and street-stalls of the earth, picking up whatever random allusions to
wof woooof-woooof wf wof wooof, wooooof wf woooooof woooof wooooooof wf

whales he could anyways find in any book whatsoever, sacred or
woooof wf wooof wooooof woof wf wof woof woooooooof, woooof wf

profane. Therefore you must not, in every case at least, take the
wooooof. Wooooooof wof woof wof, wf wooof woof wf wooof, woof wof

higgledy-piggledy whale statements, however authentic, in these
woooooof-woooooof wooof woooooooof, wooooof wooooooof, wf wooof

extracts, for veritable gospel cetology. Far from it. As touching the
woooooof, wof wooooooof woooof woooooof. Wof woof wf. Wf woooooof wof

ancient authors generally, as well as the poets here appearing, these
wooooof wooooof wooooooof, wf woof wf wof wooof woof wooooooof, wooof

extracts are solely valuable or entertaining, as affording a glancing
woooooof wof woooof woooooof wf woooooooooof, wf wooooooof w woooooof

bird's eye view of what has been promiscuously said, thought, fancied,
woof'w wof woof wf woof wof woof wooooooooooof woof, wooooof, wooooof,

and sung of Leviathan, by many nations and generations, including our
wof woof wf Wooooooof, wf woof wooooof wof wooooooooof, wooooooof wof

own.
wof.




So fare thee well, poor devil of a Sub-Sub, whose commentator I am. Thou
Wf woof woof woof, woof wooof wf w Wof-Wof, wooof wooooooooof W wf. Woof

belongest to that hopeless, sallow tribe which no wine of this world
wooooooof wf woof woooooof, woooof wooof wooof wf woof wf woof wooof

will ever warm; and for whom even Pale Sherry would be too rosy-strong;
woof woof woof; wof wof woof woof Woof Woooof wooof wf wof woof-woooof;

but with whom one sometimes loves to sit, and feel poor-devilish, too;
wof woof woof wof wooooooof wooof wf wof, wof woof woof-woooooof, wof;

and grow convivial upon tears; and say to them bluntly, with full eyes
wof woof wooooooof woof wooof; wof wof wf woof wooooof, woof woof woof

and empty glasses, and in not altogether unpleasant sadness--Give it up,
wof wooof wooooof, wof wf wof woooooooof woooooooof wooooof--Woof wf wf,

Sub-Subs! For by how much the more pains ye take to please the world,
Wof-Woof! Wof wf wof woof wof woof wooof wf woof wf woooof wof wooof,

by so much the more shall ye for ever go thankless! Would that I could
wf wf woof wof woof wooof wf wof woof wf wooooooof! Wooof woof W wooof

clear out Hampton Court and the Tuileries for ye! But gulp down your
wooof wof Wooooof Wooof wof wof Wooooooof wof wf! Wof woof woof woof

tears and hie aloft to the royal-mast with your hearts; for your friends
wooof wof wof wooof wf wof wooof-woof woof woof woooof; wof woof wooooof

who have gone before are clearing out the seven-storied heavens, and
wof woof woof woooof wof woooooof wof wof wooof-wooooof wooooof, wof

making refugees of long-pampered Gabriel, Michael, and Raphael, against
woooof woooooof wf woof-woooooof Wooooof, Wooooof, wof Wooooof, wooooof

your coming. Here ye strike but splintered hearts together--there, ye
woof woooof. Woof wf woooof wof woooooooof woooof woooooof--wooof, wf

shall strike unsplinterable glasses!
wooof woooof woooooooooooof wooooof!







EXTRACTS.
WOOOOOOF.




"And God created great whales." --GENESIS.
"Wof Wof wooooof wooof woooof." --WOOOOOF.




"Leviathan maketh a path to shine after him; One would think the deep to
"Wooooooof woooof w woof wf wooof wooof wof; Wof wooof wooof wof woof wf

be hoary." --JOB.
wf wooof." --WOF.




"Now the Lord had prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonah." --JONAH.
"Wof wof Woof wof woooooof w wooof woof wf wooooof wf Wooof." --WOOOF.




"There go the ships; there is that Leviathan whom thou hast made to play
"Wooof wf wof wooof; wooof wf woof Wooooooof woof woof woof woof wf woof

therein." --PSALMS.
wooooof." --WOOOOF.




"In that day, the Lord with his sore, and great, and strong sword,
"Wf woof wof, wof Woof woof wof woof, wof wooof, wof woooof wooof,

shall punish Leviathan the piercing serpent, even Leviathan that crooked
wooof woooof Wooooooof wof woooooof wooooof, woof Wooooooof woof wooooof

serpent; and he shall slay the dragon that is in the sea." --ISAIAH
wooooof; wof wf wooof woof wof woooof woof wf wf wof wof." --WOOOOF




"And what thing soever besides cometh within the chaos of this monster's
"Wof woof wooof woooof wooooof woooof woooof wof wooof wf woof wooooof'w

mouth, be it beast, boat, or stone, down it goes all incontinently that
wooof, wf wf wooof, woof, wf wooof, woof wf woof wof wooooooooooof woof

foul great swallow of his, and perisheth in the bottomless gulf of his
woof wooof wooooof wf wof, wof wooooooof wf wof woooooooof woof wf wof

paunch." --HOLLAND'S PLUTARCH'S MORALS.
woooof." --WOOOOOF'W WOOOOOOF'W WOOOOF.




"The Indian Sea breedeth the most and the biggest fishes that are: among
"Wof Woooof Wof woooooof wof woof wof wof wooooof woooof woof wof: wooof

which the Whales and Whirlpooles called Balaene, take up as much in
wooof wof Woooof wof Wooooooooof woooof Wooooof, woof wf wf woof wf

length as four acres or arpens of land." --HOLLAND'S PLINY.
woooof wf woof wooof wf woooof wf woof." --WOOOOOF'W WOOOF.




"Scarcely had we proceeded two days on the sea, when about sunrise a
"Woooooof wof wf wooooooof wof woof wf wof wof, woof wooof wooooof w

great many Whales and other monsters of the sea, appeared. Among the
wooof woof Woooof wof wooof woooooof wf wof wof, woooooof. Wooof wof

former, one was of a most monstrous size.... This came towards us,
woooof, wof wof wf w woof wooooooof woof.... Woof woof wooooof wf,

open-mouthed, raising the waves on all sides, and beating the sea before
woof-wooooof, wooooof wof wooof wf wof wooof, wof wooooof wof wof woooof

him into a foam." --TOOKE'S LUCIAN. "THE TRUE HISTORY."
wof woof w woof." --WOOOF'W WOOOOF. "WOF WOOF WOOOOOF."




"He visited this country also with a view of catching horse-whales,
"Wf wooooof woof wooooof woof woof w woof wf woooooof wooof-woooof,

which had bones of very great value for their teeth, of which he brought
wooof wof wooof wf woof wooof wooof wof wooof wooof, wf wooof wf wooooof

some to the king.... The best whales were catched in his own country, of
woof wf wof woof.... Wof woof woooof woof wooooof wf wof wof wooooof, wf

which some were forty-eight, some fifty yards long. He said that he was
wooof woof woof wooof-wooof, woof wooof wooof woof. Wf woof woof wf wof

one of six who had killed sixty in two days." --OTHER OR OTHER'S VERBAL
wof wf wof wof wof woooof wooof wf wof woof." --WOOOF WF WOOOF'W WOOOOF

NARRATIVE TAKEN DOWN FROM HIS MOUTH BY KING ALFRED, A.D. 890.
WOOOOOOOF WOOOF WOOF WOOF WOF WOOOF WF WOOF WOOOOF, W.W. wof.




"And whereas all the other things, whether beast or vessel, that
"Wof wooooof wof wof wooof woooof, wooooof wooof wf woooof, woof

enter into the dreadful gulf of this monster's (whale's) mouth, are
wooof woof wof woooooof woof wf woof wooooof'w (wooof'w) wooof, wof

immediately lost and swallowed up, the sea-gudgeon retires into it in
wooooooooof woof wof wooooooof wf, wof wof-wooooof wooooof woof wf wf

great security, and there sleeps." --MONTAIGNE. --APOLOGY FOR RAIMOND
wooof woooooof, wof wooof woooof." --WOOOOOOOF. --WOOOOOF WOF WOOOOOF

SEBOND.
WOOOOF.




"Let us fly, let us fly! Old Nick take me if is not Leviathan described
"Wof wf wof, wof wf wof! Wof Woof woof wf wf wf wof Wooooooof wooooooof

by the noble prophet Moses in the life of patient Job." --RABELAIS.
wf wof wooof wooooof Wooof wf wof woof wf wooooof Wof." --WOOOOOOF.




"This whale's liver was two cartloads." --STOWE'S ANNALS.
"Woof wooof'w wooof wof wof wooooooof." --WOOOF'W WOOOOF.




"The great Leviathan that maketh the seas to seethe like boiling pan."
"Wof wooof Wooooooof woof woooof wof woof wf woooof woof wooooof wof."

--LORD BACON'S VERSION OF THE PSALMS.
--WOOF WOOOF'W WOOOOOF WF WOF WOOOOF.




"Touching that monstrous bulk of the whale or ork we have received
"Woooooof woof wooooooof woof wf wof wooof wf wof wf woof woooooof

nothing certain. They grow exceeding fat, insomuch that an incredible
wooooof wooooof. Woof woof wooooooof wof, woooooof woof wf woooooooof

quantity of oil will be extracted out of one whale." --IBID. "HISTORY OF
woooooof wf wof woof wf wooooooof wof wf wof wooof." --WOOF. "WOOOOOF WF

LIFE AND DEATH."
WOOF WOF WOOOF."




"The sovereignest thing on earth is parmacetti for an inward bruise."
"Wof woooooooooof wooof wf wooof wf woooooooof wof wf woooof woooof."

--KING HENRY.
--WOOF WOOOF.




"Very like a whale." --HAMLET.
"Woof woof w wooof." --WOOOOF.




     "Which to secure, no skill of leach's art
     "Wooof wf woooof, wf wooof wf wooof'w wof

     Mote him availle, but to returne againe
     Woof wof wooooof, wof wf wooooof woooof

     To his wound's worker, that with lowly dart,
     Wf wof wooof'w woooof, woof woof wooof woof,

     Dinting his breast, had bred his restless paine,
     Wooooof wof woooof, wof woof wof woooooof wooof,

     Like as the wounded whale to shore flies thro' the maine."
     Woof wf wof wooooof wooof wf wooof wooof woof' wof wooof."

     --THE FAERIE QUEEN.
     --WOF WOOOOF WOOOF.




"Immense as whales, the motion of whose vast bodies can in a peaceful
"Wooooof wf woooof, wof woooof wf wooof woof woooof wof wf w woooooof

calm trouble the ocean til it boil." --SIR WILLIAM DAVENANT. PREFACE TO
woof wooooof wof wooof wof wf woof." --WOF WOOOOOF WOOOOOOF. WOOOOOF WF

GONDIBERT.
WOOOOOOOF.




"What spermacetti is, men might justly doubt, since the learned
"Woof wooooooooof wf, wof wooof woooof wooof, wooof wof wooooof

Hosmannus in his work of thirty years, saith plainly, Nescio quid sit."
Wooooooof wf wof woof wf woooof wooof, wooof wooooof, Woooof woof wof."

--SIR T. BROWNE. OF SPERMA CETI AND THE SPERMA CETI WHALE. VIDE HIS V.
--WOF W. WOOOOF. WF WOOOOF WOOF WOF WOF WOOOOF WOOF WOOOF. WOOF WOF W.

E.
W.




     "Like Spencer's Talus with his modern flail
     "Woof Wooooof'w Wooof woof wof woooof wooof

     He threatens ruin with his ponderous tail.
     Wf wooooooof woof woof wof wooooooof woof.

   ...
   ...

     Their fixed jav'lins in his side he wears,
     Wooof wooof wof'woof wf wof woof wf wooof,

     And on his back a grove of pikes appears."
     Wof wf wof woof w wooof wf wooof wooooof."

     --WALLER'S BATTLE OF THE SUMMER ISLANDS.
     --WOOOOF'W WOOOOF WF WOF WOOOOF WOOOOOF.




"By art is created that great Leviathan, called a Commonwealth or
"Wf wof wf wooooof woof wooof Wooooooof, woooof w Woooooooooof wf

State--(in Latin, Civitas) which is but an artificial man." --OPENING
Wooof--(wf Wooof, Wooooof) wooof wf wof wf woooooooof wof." --WOOOOOF

SENTENCE OF HOBBES'S LEVIATHAN.
WOOOOOOF WF WOOOOF'W WOOOOOOOF.




"Silly Mansoul swallowed it without chewing, as if it had been a sprat
"Wooof Wooooof wooooooof wf wooooof wooooof, wf wf wf wof woof w wooof

in the mouth of a whale." --PILGRIM'S PROGRESS.
wf wof wooof wf w wooof." --WOOOOOF'W WOOOOOOF.




     "That sea beast
     "Woof wof wooof

     Leviathan, which God of all his works
     Wooooooof, wooof Wof wf wof wof wooof

     Created hugest that swim the ocean stream." --PARADISE LOST.
     Wooooof woooof woof woof wof wooof woooof." --WOOOOOOF WOOF.




     ---"There Leviathan,
     ---"Wooof Wooooooof,

     Hugest of living creatures, in the deep
     Woooof wf woooof wooooooof, wf wof woof

     Stretched like a promontory sleeps or swims,
     Wooooooof woof w woooooooof woooof wf wooof,

     And seems a moving land; and at his gills
     Wof wooof w woooof woof; wof wf wof wooof

     Draws in, and at his breath spouts out a sea." --IBID.
     Wooof wf, wof wf wof woooof woooof wof w wof." --WOOF.




"The mighty whales which swim in a sea of water, and have a sea of oil
"Wof woooof woooof wooof woof wf w wof wf wooof, wof woof w wof wf wof

swimming in them." --FULLLER'S PROFANE AND HOLY STATE.
woooooof wf woof." --WOOOOOF'W WOOOOOF WOF WOOF WOOOF.




     "So close behind some promontory lie
     "Wf wooof woooof woof woooooooof wof

     The huge Leviathan to attend their prey,
     Wof woof Wooooooof wf woooof wooof woof,

     And give no chance, but swallow in the fry,
     Wof woof wf woooof, wof wooooof wf wof wof,

     Which through their gaping jaws mistake the way."
     Wooof wooooof wooof woooof woof wooooof wof wof."

     --DRYDEN'S ANNUS MIRABILIS.
     --WOOOOF'W WOOOF WOOOOOOOF.




"While the whale is floating at the stern of the ship, they cut off his
"Wooof wof wooof wf woooooof wf wof wooof wf wof woof, woof wof wof wof

head, and tow it with a boat as near the shore as it will come; but it
woof, wof wof wf woof w woof wf woof wof wooof wf wf woof woof; wof wf

will be aground in twelve or thirteen feet water." --THOMAS EDGE'S TEN
woof wf wooooof wf woooof wf woooooof woof wooof." --WOOOOF WOOF'W WOF

VOYAGES TO SPITZBERGEN, IN PURCHAS.
WOOOOOF WF WOOOOOOOOOF, WF WOOOOOF.




"In their way they saw many whales sporting in the ocean, and in
"Wf wooof wof woof wof woof woooof woooooof wf wof wooof, wof wf

wantonness fuzzing up the water through their pipes and vents, which
woooooooof wooooof wf wof wooof wooooof wooof wooof wof wooof, wooof

nature has placed on their shoulders." --SIR T. HERBERT'S VOYAGES INTO
woooof wof woooof wf wooof wooooooof." --WOF W. WOOOOOF'W WOOOOOF WOOF

ASIA AND AFRICA. HARRIS COLL.
WOOF WOF WOOOOF. WOOOOF WOOF.




"Here they saw such huge troops of whales, that they were forced to
"Woof woof wof woof woof woooof wf woooof, woof woof woof woooof wf

proceed with a great deal of caution for fear they should run their ship
wooooof woof w wooof woof wf wooooof wof woof woof woooof wof wooof woof

upon them." --SCHOUTEN'S SIXTH CIRCUMNAVIGATION.
woof woof." --WOOOOOOF'W WOOOF WOOOOOOOOOOOOOOF.




"We set sail from the Elbe, wind N.E. in the ship called The
"Wf wof woof woof wof Woof, woof W.W. wf wof woof woooof Wof

Jonas-in-the-Whale.... Some say the whale can't open his mouth, but that
Wooof-wf-wof-Wooof.... Woof wof wof wooof wof'w woof wof wooof, wof woof

is a fable.... They frequently climb up the masts to see whether they
wf w wooof.... Woof woooooooof wooof wf wof wooof wf wof wooooof woof

can see a whale, for the first discoverer has a ducat for his pains....
wof wof w wooof, wof wof wooof woooooooof wof w wooof wof wof wooof....

I was told of a whale taken near Shetland, that had above a barrel of
W wof woof wf w wooof wooof woof Woooooof, woof wof wooof w woooof wf

herrings in his belly.... One of our harpooneers told me that he caught
woooooof wf wof wooof.... Wof wf wof wooooooooof woof wf woof wf woooof

once a whale in Spitzbergen that was white all over." --A VOYAGE TO
woof w wooof wf Wooooooooof woof wof wooof wof woof." --W WOOOOF WF

GREENLAND, A.D. 1671 HARRIS COLL.
WOOOOOOOF, W.W. woof WOOOOF WOOF.




"Several whales have come in upon this coast (Fife) Anno 1652, one
"Wooooof woooof woof woof wf woof woof wooof (Woof) Woof woof, wof

eighty feet in length of the whale-bone kind came in, which (as I was
woooof woof wf woooof wf wof wooof-woof woof woof wf, wooof (wf W wof

informed), besides a vast quantity of oil, did afford 500 weight of
woooooof), wooooof w woof woooooof wf wof, wof woooof wof woooof wf

baleen. The jaws of it stand for a gate in the garden of Pitferren."
woooof. Wof woof wf wf wooof wof w woof wf wof woooof wf Wooooooof."

--SIBBALD'S FIFE AND KINROSS.
--WOOOOOF'W WOOF WOF WOOOOOF.




"Myself have agreed to try whether I can master and kill this
"Woooof woof woooof wf wof wooooof W wof woooof wof woof woof

Sperma-ceti whale, for I could never hear of any of that sort that was
Woooof-woof wooof, wof W wooof wooof woof wf wof wf woof woof woof wof

killed by any man, such is his fierceness and swiftness." --RICHARD
woooof wf wof wof, woof wf wof woooooooof wof wooooooof." --WOOOOOF

STRAFFORD'S LETTER FROM THE BERMUDAS. PHIL. TRANS. A.D. 1668.
WOOOOOOOF'W WOOOOF WOOF WOF WOOOOOOF. WOOF. WOOOF. W.W. woof.




"Whales in the sea God's voice obey." --N. E. PRIMER.
"Woooof wf wof wof Wof'w wooof woof." --W. W. WOOOOF.




"We saw also abundance of large whales, there being more in those
"Wf wof woof wooooooof wf wooof woooof, wooof wooof woof wf wooof

southern seas, as I may say, by a hundred to one; than we have to the
woooooof woof, wf W wof wof, wf w wooooof wf wof; woof wf woof wf wof

northward of us." --CAPTAIN COWLEY'S VOYAGE ROUND THE GLOBE, A.D. 1729.
wooooooof wf wf." --WOOOOOF WOOOOF'W WOOOOF WOOOF WOF WOOOF, W.W. woof.




"... and the breath of the whale is frequently attended with such an
"... wof wof woooof wf wof wooof wf woooooooof woooooof woof woof wf

insupportable smell, as to bring on a disorder of the brain." --ULLOA'S
wooooooooooof wooof, wf wf wooof wf w woooooof wf wof wooof." --WOOOF'W

SOUTH AMERICA.
WOOOF WOOOOOF.




     "To fifty chosen sylphs of special note,
     "Wf wooof woooof woooof wf wooooof woof,

     We trust the important charge, the petticoat.
     Wf wooof wof wooooooof woooof, wof wooooooof.

     Oft have we known that seven-fold fence to fail,
     Wof woof wf wooof woof wooof-woof wooof wf woof,

     Tho' stuffed with hoops and armed with ribs of whale."
     Wof' wooooof woof wooof wof wooof woof woof wf wooof."

     --RAPE OF THE LOCK.
     --WOOF WF WOF WOOF.




"If we compare land animals in respect to magnitude, with those
"Wf wf wooooof woof wooooof wf wooooof wf wooooooof, woof wooof

that take up their abode in the deep, we shall find they will appear
woof woof wf wooof wooof wf wof woof, wf wooof woof woof woof woooof

contemptible in the comparison. The whale is doubtless the largest
woooooooooof wf wof woooooooof. Wof wooof wf wooooooof wof wooooof

animal in creation." --GOLDSMITH, NAT. HIST.
woooof wf woooooof." --WOOOOOOOF, WOF. WOOF.




"If you should write a fable for little fishes, you would make them
"Wf wof woooof wooof w wooof wof woooof woooof, wof wooof woof woof

speak like great wales." --GOLDSMITH TO JOHNSON.
wooof woof wooof wooof." --WOOOOOOOF WF WOOOOOF.




"In the afternoon we saw what was supposed to be a rock, but it was
"Wf wof wooooooof wf wof woof wof woooooof wf wf w woof, wof wf wof

found to be a dead whale, which some Asiatics had killed, and were then
wooof wf wf w woof wooof, wooof woof Woooooof wof woooof, wof woof woof

towing ashore. They seemed to endeavor to conceal themselves behind the
woooof woooof. Woof woooof wf woooooof wf wooooof woooooooof woooof wof

whale, in order to avoid being seen by us." --COOK'S VOYAGES.
wooof, wf wooof wf wooof wooof woof wf wf." --WOOF'W WOOOOOF.




"The larger whales, they seldom venture to attack. They stand in so
"Wof woooof woooof, woof woooof wooooof wf woooof. Woof wooof wf wf

great dread of some of them, that when out at sea they are afraid to
wooof wooof wf woof wf woof, woof woof wof wf wof woof wof woooof wf

mention even their names, and carry dung, lime-stone, juniper-wood,
wooooof woof wooof wooof, wof wooof woof, woof-wooof, wooooof-woof,

and some other articles of the same nature in their boats, in order to
wof woof wooof woooooof wf wof woof woooof wf wooof wooof, wf wooof wf

terrify and prevent their too near approach." --UNO VON TROIL'S LETTERS
wooooof wof wooooof wooof wof woof woooooof." --WOF WOF WOOOF'W WOOOOOF

ON BANKS'S AND SOLANDER'S VOYAGE TO ICELAND IN 1772.
WF WOOOF'W WOF WOOOOOOF'W WOOOOF WF WOOOOOF WF woof.




"The Spermacetti Whale found by the Nantuckois, is an active, fierce
"Wof Wooooooooof Wooof wooof wf wof Woooooooof, wf wf woooof, woooof

animal, and requires vast address and boldness in the fishermen."
woooof, wof woooooof woof wooooof wof woooooof wf wof wooooooof."

--THOMAS JEFFERSON'S WHALE MEMORIAL TO THE FRENCH MINISTER IN 1778.
--WOOOOF WOOOOOOOF'W WOOOF WOOOOOOF WF WOF WOOOOF WOOOOOOF WF woof.




"And pray, sir, what in the world is equal to it?" --EDMUND BURKE'S
"Wof woof, wof, woof wf wof wooof wf wooof wf wf?" --WOOOOF WOOOF'W

REFERENCE IN PARLIAMENT TO THE NANTUCKET WHALE-FISHERY.
WOOOOOOOF WF WOOOOOOOOF WF WOF WOOOOOOOF WOOOF-WOOOOOF.




"Spain--a great whale stranded on the shores of Europe." --EDMUND BURKE.
"Wooof--w wooof wooof woooooof wf wof woooof wf Woooof." --WOOOOF WOOOF.

(SOMEWHERE.)
(WOOOOOOOF.)




"A tenth branch of the king's ordinary revenue, said to be grounded on
"W wooof woooof wf wof woof'w woooooof wooooof, woof wf wf woooooof wf

the consideration of his guarding and protecting the seas from pirates
wof wooooooooooof wf wof woooooof wof woooooooof wof woof woof wooooof

and robbers, is the right to royal fish, which are whale and sturgeon.
wof wooooof, wf wof wooof wf wooof woof, wooof wof wooof wof woooooof.

And these, when either thrown ashore or caught near the coast, are the
Wof wooof, woof woooof woooof woooof wf woooof woof wof wooof, wof wof

property of the king." --BLACKSTONE.
woooooof wf wof woof." --WOOOOOOOOF.




     "Soon to the sport of death the crews repair:
     "Woof wf wof wooof wf wooof wof wooof woooof:

     Rodmond unerring o'er his head suspends
     Wooooof woooooof w'wf wof woof woooooof

     The barbed steel, and every turn attends."
     Wof woooof wooof, wof wooof woof wooooof."

     --FALCONER'S SHIPWRECK.
     --WOOOOOOF'W WOOOOOOOF.




     "Bright shone the roofs, the domes, the spires,
     "Woooof wooof wof wooof, wof wooof, wof woooof,

     And rockets blew self driven,
     Wof wooooof woof woof woooof,

     To hang their momentary fire
     Wf woof wooof wooooooof woof

     Around the vault of heaven.
     Woooof wof wooof wf woooof.




     "So fire with water to compare,
     "Wf woof woof wooof wf wooooof,

     The ocean serves on high,
     Wof wooof woooof wf woof,

     Up-spouted by a whale in air,
     Wf-wooooof wf w wooof wf wof,

     To express unwieldy joy." --COWPER, ON THE QUEEN'S
     Wf wooooof woooooof wof." --WOOOOF, WF WOF WOOOF'W

     VISIT TO LONDON.
     WOOOF WF WOOOOF.




"Ten or fifteen gallons of blood are thrown out of the heart at
"Wof wf wooooof wooooof wf wooof wof woooof wof wf wof wooof wf

a stroke, with immense velocity." --JOHN HUNTER'S ACCOUNT OF THE
w woooof, woof wooooof woooooof." --WOOF WOOOOF'W WOOOOOF WF WOF

DISSECTION OF A WHALE. (A SMALL SIZED ONE.)
WOOOOOOOOF WF W WOOOF. (W WOOOF WOOOF WOF.)




"The aorta of a whale is larger in the bore than the main pipe of the
"Wof wooof wf w wooof wf woooof wf wof woof woof wof woof woof wf wof

water-works at London Bridge, and the water roaring in its passage
wooof-wooof wf Woooof Woooof, wof wof wooof wooooof wf wof wooooof

through that pipe is inferior in impetus and velocity to the blood
wooooof woof woof wf woooooof wf wooooof wof woooooof wf wof wooof

gushing from the whale's heart." --PALEY'S THEOLOGY.
wooooof woof wof wooof'w wooof." --WOOOF'W WOOOOOOF.




"The whale is a mammiferous animal without hind feet." --BARON CUVIER.
"Wof wooof wf w wooooooooof woooof wooooof woof woof." --WOOOF WOOOOF.




"In 40 degrees south, we saw Spermacetti Whales, but did not take
"Wf wf wooooof wooof, wf wof Wooooooooof Woooof, wof wof wof woof

any till the first of May, the sea being then covered with them."
wof woof wof wooof wf Wof, wof wof wooof woof wooooof woof woof."

--COLNETT'S VOYAGE FOR THE PURPOSE OF EXTENDING THE SPERMACETI WHALE
--WOOOOOF'W WOOOOF WOF WOF WOOOOOF WF WOOOOOOOF WOF WOOOOOOOOF WOOOF

FISHERY.
WOOOOOF.




     "In the free element beneath me swam,
     "Wf wof woof wooooof wooooof wf woof,

     Floundered and dived, in play, in chace, in battle,
     Woooooooof wof wooof, wf woof, wf wooof, wf woooof,

     Fishes of every colour, form, and kind;
     Woooof wf wooof woooof, woof, wof woof;

     Which language cannot paint, and mariner
     Wooof woooooof woooof wooof, wof wooooof

     Had never seen; from dread Leviathan
     Wof wooof woof; woof wooof Wooooooof

     To insect millions peopling every wave:
     Wf woooof woooooof woooooof wooof woof:

     Gather'd in shoals immense, like floating islands,
     Woooof'w wf woooof wooooof, woof woooooof wooooof,

     Led by mysterious instincts through that waste
     Wof wf woooooooof wooooooof wooooof woof wooof

     And trackless region, though on every side
     Wof wooooooof woooof, woooof wf wooof woof

     Assaulted by voracious enemies,
     Wooooooof wf wooooooof wooooof,

     Whales, sharks, and monsters, arm'd in front or jaw,
     Woooof, woooof, wof woooooof, wof'w wf wooof wf wof,

     With swords, saws, spiral horns, or hooked fangs."
     Woof woooof, woof, woooof wooof, wf woooof wooof."

     --MONTGOMERY'S WORLD BEFORE THE FLOOD.
     --WOOOOOOOOF'W WOOOF WOOOOF WOF WOOOF.




     "Io!  Paean!  Io! sing.
     "Wf!  Wooof!  Wf! woof.

     To the finny people's king.
     Wf wof wooof woooof'w woof.

     Not a mightier whale than this
     Wof w woooooof wooof woof woof

     In the vast Atlantic is;
     Wf wof woof Woooooof wf;

     Not a fatter fish than he,
     Wof w woooof woof woof wf,

     Flounders round the Polar Sea."
     Wooooooof wooof wof Wooof Wof."

     --CHARLES LAMB'S TRIUMPH OF THE WHALE.
     --WOOOOOF WOOF'W WOOOOOF WF WOF WOOOF.




"In the year 1690 some persons were on a high hill observing the
"Wf wof woof woof woof wooooof woof wf w woof woof wooooooof wof

whales spouting and sporting with each other, when one observed:
woooof woooooof wof woooooof woof woof wooof, woof wof woooooof:

there--pointing to the sea--is a green pasture where our children's
wooof--woooooof wf wof wof--wf w wooof wooooof wooof wof woooooof'w

grand-children will go for bread." --OBED MACY'S HISTORY OF NANTUCKET.
wooof-woooooof woof wf wof wooof." --WOOF WOOF'W WOOOOOF WF WOOOOOOOF.




"I built a cottage for Susan and myself and made a gateway in the form
"W wooof w wooooof wof Wooof wof woooof wof woof w wooooof wf wof woof

of a Gothic Arch, by setting up a whale's jaw bones." --HAWTHORNE'S
wf w Woooof Woof, wf wooooof wf w wooof'w wof wooof." --WOOOOOOOF'W

TWICE TOLD TALES.
WOOOF WOOF WOOOF.




"She came to bespeak a monument for her first love, who had been killed
"Wof woof wf wooooof w woooooof wof wof wooof woof, wof wof woof woooof

by a whale in the Pacific ocean, no less than forty years ago." --IBID.
wf w wooof wf wof Wooooof wooof, wf woof woof wooof wooof wof." --WOOF.




"No, Sir, 'tis a Right Whale," answered Tom; "I saw his sprout; he threw
"Wf, Wof, 'wof w Wooof Wooof," woooooof Wof; "W wof wof woooof; wf wooof

up a pair of as pretty rainbows as a Christian would wish to look at.
wf w woof wf wf woooof woooooof wf w Wooooooof wooof woof wf woof wf.

He's a raal oil-butt, that fellow!" --COOPER'S PILOT.
Wf'w w woof wof-woof, woof woooof!" --WOOOOF'W WOOOF.




"The papers were brought in, and we saw in the Berlin Gazette
"Wof woooof woof wooooof wf, wof wf wof wf wof Woooof Wooooof

that whales had been introduced on the stage there." --ECKERMANN'S
woof woooof wof woof woooooooof wf wof wooof wooof." --WOOOOOOOF'W

CONVERSATIONS WITH GOETHE.
WOOOOOOOOOOOF WOOF WOOOOF.




"My God! Mr. Chace, what is the matter?" I answered, "we have been stove
"Wf Wof! Wf. Wooof, woof wf wof woooof?" W woooooof, "wf woof woof wooof

by a whale." --"NARRATIVE OF THE SHIPWRECK OF THE WHALE SHIP ESSEX OF
wf w wooof." --"WOOOOOOOF WF WOF WOOOOOOOF WF WOF WOOOF WOOF WOOOF WF

NANTUCKET, WHICH WAS ATTACKED AND FINALLY DESTROYED BY A LARGE SPERM
WOOOOOOOF, WOOOF WOF WOOOOOOF WOF WOOOOOF WOOOOOOOF WF W WOOOF WOOOF

WHALE IN THE PACIFIC OCEAN." BY OWEN CHACE OF NANTUCKET, FIRST MATE OF
WOOOF WF WOF WOOOOOF WOOOF." WF WOOF WOOOF WF WOOOOOOOF, WOOOF WOOF WF

SAID VESSEL. NEW YORK, 1821.
WOOF WOOOOF. WOF WOOF, woof.




     "A mariner sat in the shrouds one night,
     "W wooooof wof wf wof wooooof wof wooof,

     The wind was piping free;
     Wof woof wof woooof woof;

     Now bright, now dimmed, was the moonlight pale,
     Wof woooof, wof woooof, wof wof wooooooof woof,

     And the phospher gleamed in the wake of the whale,
     Wof wof woooooof wooooof wf wof woof wf wof wooof,

     As it floundered in the sea."
     Wf wf woooooooof wf wof wof."

     --ELIZABETH OAKES SMITH.
     --WOOOOOOOF WOOOF WOOOF.




"The quantity of line withdrawn from the boats engaged in the capture
"Wof woooooof wf woof wooooooof woof wof wooof wooooof wf wof wooooof

of this one whale, amounted altogether to 10,440 yards or nearly six
wf woof wof wooof, woooooof woooooooof wf wf,wof wooof wf woooof wof

English miles....
Wooooof wooof....




"Sometimes the whale shakes its tremendous tail in the air, which,
"Wooooooof wof wooof woooof wof woooooooof woof wf wof wof, wooof,

cracking like a whip, resounds to the distance of three or four miles."
woooooof woof w woof, woooooof wf wof woooooof wf wooof wf woof wooof."

--SCORESBY.
--WOOOOOOF.




"Mad with the agonies he endures from these fresh attacks, the
"Wof woof wof wooooof wf wooooof woof wooof wooof wooooof, wof

infuriated Sperm Whale rolls over and over; he rears his enormous head,
woooooooof Wooof Wooof wooof woof wof woof; wf wooof wof woooooof woof,

and with wide expanded jaws snaps at everything around him; he rushes
wof woof woof woooooof woof wooof wf woooooooof woooof wof; wf woooof

at the boats with his head; they are propelled before him with vast
wf wof wooof woof wof woof; woof wof wooooooof woooof wof woof woof

swiftness, and sometimes utterly destroyed.... It is a matter of great
wooooooof, wof wooooooof wooooof wooooooof.... Wf wf w woooof wf wooof

astonishment that the consideration of the habits of so interesting,
woooooooooof woof wof wooooooooooof wf wof woooof wf wf wooooooooof,

and, in a commercial point of view, so important an animal (as the Sperm
wof, wf w woooooooof wooof wf woof, wf wooooooof wf woooof (wf wof Wooof

Whale) should have been so entirely neglected, or should have excited
Wooof) woooof woof woof wf woooooof wooooooof, wf woooof woof wooooof

so little curiosity among the numerous, and many of them competent
wf woooof wooooooof wooof wof woooooof, wof woof wf woof wooooooof

observers, that of late years, must have possessed the most abundant
wooooooof, woof wf woof wooof, woof woof wooooooof wof woof woooooof

and the most convenient opportunities of witnessing their habitudes."
wof wof woof woooooooof wooooooooooof wf woooooooof wooof wooooooof."

--THOMAS BEALE'S HISTORY OF THE SPERM WHALE, 1839.
--WOOOOF WOOOF'W WOOOOOF WF WOF WOOOF WOOOF, woof.




"The Cachalot" (Sperm Whale) "is not only better armed than the True
"Wof Woooooof" (Wooof Wooof) "wf wof woof woooof wooof woof wof Woof

Whale" (Greenland or Right Whale) "in possessing a formidable weapon
Wooof" (Wooooooof wf Wooof Wooof) "wf woooooooof w woooooooof woooof

at either extremity of its body, but also more frequently displays a
wf woooof wooooooof wf wof woof, wof woof woof woooooooof woooooof w

disposition to employ these weapons offensively and in manner at once so
wooooooooof wf woooof wooof wooooof wooooooooof wof wf woooof wf woof wf

artful, bold, and mischievous, as to lead to its being regarded as the
woooof, woof, wof wooooooooof, wf wf woof wf wof wooof woooooof wf wof

most dangerous to attack of all the known species of the whale tribe."
woof wooooooof wf woooof wf wof wof wooof wooooof wf wof wooof wooof."

--FREDERICK DEBELL BENNETT'S WHALING VOYAGE ROUND THE GLOBE, 1840.
--WOOOOOOOF WOOOOF WOOOOOF'W WOOOOOF WOOOOF WOOOF WOF WOOOF, woof.




     October 13.  "There she blows," was sung out from the mast-head.
     Wooooof wf.  "Wooof wof wooof," wof woof wof woof wof woof-woof.

     "Where away?" demanded the captain.
     "Wooof woof?" woooooof wof wooooof.

     "Three points off the lee bow, sir."
     "Wooof woooof wof wof wof wof, wof."

     "Raise up your wheel.  Steady!"  "Steady, sir."
     "Wooof wf woof wooof.  Woooof!"  "Woooof, wof."

     "Mast-head ahoy!  Do you see that whale now?"
     "Woof-woof woof!  Wf wof wof woof wooof wof?"

     "Ay ay, sir!  A shoal of Sperm Whales!  There she blows!  There she
     "Wf wf, wof!  W wooof wf Wooof Woooof!  Wooof wof wooof!  Wooof wof

     breaches!"
     woooooof!"

     "Sing out! sing out every time!"
     "Woof wof! woof wof wooof woof!"

     "Ay Ay, sir!  There she blows! there--there--THAR she
     "Wf Wf, wof!  Wooof wof wooof! wooof--wooof--WOOF wof

     blows--bowes--bo-o-os!"
     wooof--wooof--wf-w-wf!"

     "How far off?"
     "Wof wof wof?"

     "Two miles and a half."
     "Wof wooof wof w woof."

     "Thunder and lightning! so near!  Call all hands."
     "Wooooof wof wooooooof! wf woof!  Woof wof wooof."

     --J. ROSS BROWNE'S ETCHINGS OF A WHALING CRUIZE.  1846.
     --W. WOOF WOOOOF'W WOOOOOOF WF W WOOOOOF WOOOOF.  woof.




"The Whale-ship Globe, on board of which vessel occurred the horrid
"Wof Wooof-woof Wooof, wf wooof wf wooof woooof woooooof wof woooof

transactions we are about to relate, belonged to the island of
woooooooooof wf wof wooof wf woooof, woooooof wf wof woooof wf

Nantucket." --"NARRATIVE OF THE GLOBE," BY LAY AND HUSSEY SURVIVORS.
Wooooooof." --"WOOOOOOOF WF WOF WOOOF," WF WOF WOF WOOOOF WOOOOOOOF.

A.D. 1828.
W.W. woof.




Being once pursued by a whale which he had wounded, he parried the
Wooof woof wooooof wf w wooof wooof wf wof wooooof, wf wooooof wof

assault for some time with a lance; but the furious monster at length
wooooof wof woof woof woof w wooof; wof wof wooooof wooooof wf woooof

rushed on the boat; himself and comrades only being preserved by leaping
woooof wf wof woof; wooooof wof woooooof woof wooof wooooooof wf wooooof

into the water when they saw the onset was inevitable." --MISSIONARY
woof wof wooof woof woof wof wof wooof wof woooooooof." --WOOOOOOOOF

JOURNAL OF TYERMAN AND BENNETT.
WOOOOOF WF WOOOOOF WOF WOOOOOF.




"Nantucket itself," said Mr. Webster, "is a very striking and peculiar
"Wooooooof woooof," woof Wf. Wooooof, "wf w woof woooooof wof woooooof

portion of the National interest. There is a population of eight or nine
wooooof wf wof Woooooof woooooof. Wooof wf w woooooooof wf wooof wf woof

thousand persons living here in the sea, adding largely every year
woooooof wooooof woooof woof wf wof wof, woooof wooooof wooof woof

to the National wealth by the boldest and most persevering industry."
wf wof Woooooof woooof wf wof wooooof wof woof wooooooooof woooooof."

--REPORT OF DANIEL WEBSTER'S SPEECH IN THE U. S. SENATE, ON THE
--WOOOOF WF WOOOOF WOOOOOF'W WOOOOF WF WOF W. W. WOOOOF, WF WOF

APPLICATION FOR THE ERECTION OF A BREAKWATER AT NANTUCKET. 1828.
WOOOOOOOOOF WOF WOF WOOOOOOF WF W WOOOOOOOOF WF WOOOOOOOF. woof.




"The whale fell directly over him, and probably killed him in a moment."
"Wof wooof woof woooooof woof wof, wof woooooof woooof wof wf w woooof."

--"THE WHALE AND HIS CAPTORS, OR THE WHALEMAN'S ADVENTURES AND THE
--"WOF WOOOF WOF WOF WOOOOOF, WF WOF WOOOOOOF'W WOOOOOOOOF WOF WOF

WHALE'S BIOGRAPHY, GATHERED ON THE HOMEWARD CRUISE OF THE COMMODORE
WOOOF'W WOOOOOOOF, WOOOOOOF WF WOF WOOOOOOF WOOOOF WF WOF WOOOOOOOF

PREBLE." BY REV. HENRY T. CHEEVER.
WOOOOF." WF WOF. WOOOF W. WOOOOOF.




"If you make the least damn bit of noise," replied Samuel, "I will send
"Wf wof woof wof wooof woof wof wf wooof," wooooof Woooof, "W woof woof

you to hell." --LIFE OF SAMUEL COMSTOCK (THE MUTINEER), BY HIS BROTHER,
wof wf woof." --WOOF WF WOOOOF WOOOOOOF (WOF WOOOOOOF), WF WOF WOOOOOF,

WILLIAM COMSTOCK. ANOTHER VERSION OF THE WHALE-SHIP GLOBE NARRATIVE.
WOOOOOF WOOOOOOF. WOOOOOF WOOOOOF WF WOF WOOOF-WOOF WOOOF WOOOOOOOF.




"The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order,
"Wof wooooof wf wof Wooof wof Wooooof wf wof Woooooof Wooof, wf wooof,

if possible, to discover a passage through it to India, though they
wf woooooof, wf woooooof w wooooof wooooof wf wf Wooof, woooof woof

failed of their main object, laid-open the haunts of the whale."
woooof wf wooof woof woooof, woof-woof wof woooof wf wof wooof."

--MCCULLOCH'S COMMERCIAL DICTIONARY.
--WOOOOOOOF'W WOOOOOOOOF WOOOOOOOOF.




"These things are reciprocal; the ball rebounds, only to bound forward
"Wooof woooof wof woooooooof; wof woof woooooof, woof wf wooof wooooof

again; for now in laying open the haunts of the whale, the whalemen seem
wooof; wof wof wf woooof woof wof woooof wf wof wooof, wof woooooof woof

to have indirectly hit upon new clews to that same mystic North-West
wf woof woooooooof wof woof wof wooof wf woof woof woooof Wooof-Woof

Passage." --FROM "SOMETHING" UNPUBLISHED.
Wooooof." --WOOF "WOOOOOOOF" WOOOOOOOOOF.




"It is impossible to meet a whale-ship on the ocean without being struck
"Wf wf woooooooof wf woof w wooof-woof wf wof wooof wooooof wooof woooof

by her near appearance. The vessel under short sail, with look-outs at
wf wof woof woooooooof. Wof woooof wooof wooof woof, woof woof-woof wf

the mast-heads, eagerly scanning the wide expanse around them, has a
wof woof-wooof, wooooof woooooof wof woof wooooof woooof woof, wof w

totally different air from those engaged in regular voyage." --CURRENTS
wooooof wooooooof wof woof wooof wooooof wf wooooof woooof." --WOOOOOOF

AND WHALING. U.S. EX. EX.
WOF WOOOOOF. W.W. WF. WF.




"Pedestrians in the vicinity of London and elsewhere may recollect
"Wooooooooof wf wof woooooof wf Woooof wof wooooooof wof wooooooof

having seen large curved bones set upright in the earth, either to form
woooof woof wooof woooof wooof wof wooooof wf wof wooof, woooof wf woof

arches over gateways, or entrances to alcoves, and they may perhaps
woooof woof woooooof, wf wooooooof wf wooooof, wof woof wof wooooof

have been told that these were the ribs of whales." --TALES OF A WHALE
woof woof woof woof wooof woof wof woof wf woooof." --WOOOF WF W WOOOF

VOYAGER TO THE ARCTIC OCEAN.
WOOOOOF WF WOF WOOOOF WOOOF.




"It was not till the boats returned from the pursuit of these whales,
"Wf wof wof woof wof wooof woooooof woof wof wooooof wf wooof woooof,

that the whites saw their ship in bloody possession of the savages
woof wof woooof wof wooof woof wf woooof woooooooof wf wof wooooof

enrolled among the crew." --NEWSPAPER ACCOUNT OF THE TAKING AND RETAKING
woooooof wooof wof woof." --WOOOOOOOF WOOOOOF WF WOF WOOOOF WOF WOOOOOOF

OF THE WHALE-SHIP HOBOMACK.
WF WOF WOOOF-WOOF WOOOOOOF.




"It is generally well known that out of the crews of Whaling vessels
"Wf wf wooooooof woof wooof woof wof wf wof wooof wf Wooooof wooooof

(American) few ever return in the ships on board of which they
(Woooooof) wof woof woooof wf wof wooof wf wooof wf wooof woof

departed." --CRUISE IN A WHALE BOAT.
woooooof." --WOOOOF WF W WOOOF WOOF.




"Suddenly a mighty mass emerged from the water, and shot up
"Woooooof w woooof woof wooooof woof wof wooof, wof woof wf

perpendicularly into the air. It was the while." --MIRIAM COFFIN OR THE
wooooooooooooof woof wof wof. Wf wof wof wooof." --WOOOOF WOOOOF WF WOF

WHALE FISHERMAN.
WOOOF WOOOOOOOF.




"The Whale is harpooned to be sure; but bethink you, how you would
"Wof Wooof wf wooooooof wf wf woof; wof wooooof wof, wof wof wooof

manage a powerful unbroken colt, with the mere appliance of a rope tied
woooof w woooooof woooooof woof, woof wof woof wooooooof wf w woof woof

to the root of his tail." --A CHAPTER ON WHALING IN RIBS AND TRUCKS.
wf wof woof wf wof woof." --W WOOOOOF WF WOOOOOF WF WOOF WOF WOOOOF.




"On one occasion I saw two of these monsters (whales) probably male and
"Wf wof woooooof W wof wof wf wooof woooooof (woooof) woooooof woof wof

female, slowly swimming, one after the other, within less than a stone's
woooof, woooof woooooof, wof wooof wof wooof, woooof woof woof w wooof'w

throw of the shore" (Terra Del Fuego), "over which the beech tree
wooof wf wof wooof" (Wooof Wof Wooof), "woof wooof wof wooof woof

extended its branches." --DARWIN'S VOYAGE OF A NATURALIST.
woooooof wof woooooof." --WOOOOF'W WOOOOF WF W WOOOOOOOOF.




"'Stern all!' exclaimed the mate, as upon turning his head, he saw the
"'Wooof wof!' wooooooof wof woof, wf woof wooooof wof woof, wf wof wof

distended jaws of a large Sperm Whale close to the head of the boat,
wooooooof woof wf w wooof Wooof Wooof wooof wf wof woof wf wof woof,

threatening it with instant destruction;--'Stern all, for your lives!'"
wooooooooof wf woof wooooof wooooooooof;--'Wooof wof, wof woof wooof!'"

--WHARTON THE WHALE KILLER.
--WOOOOOF WOF WOOOF WOOOOF.




"So be cheery, my lads, let your hearts never fail, While the bold
"Wf wf woooof, wf woof, wof woof woooof wooof woof, Wooof wof woof

harpooneer is striking the whale!" --NANTUCKET SONG.
woooooooof wf woooooof wof wooof!" --WOOOOOOOF WOOF.




     "Oh, the rare old Whale, mid storm and gale
     "Wf, wof woof wof Wooof, wof wooof wof woof

     In his ocean home will be
     Wf wof wooof woof woof wf

     A giant in might, where might is right,
     W wooof wf wooof, wooof wooof wf wooof,

     And King of the boundless sea."
     Wof Woof wf wof wooooooof wof."

     --WHALE SONG.
     --WOOOF WOOF.













CHAPTER 1. Loomings.
WOOOOOF w. Woooooof.







Call me Ishmael. Some years ago--never mind how long precisely--having
Woof wf Wooooof. Woof wooof wof--wooof woof wof woof wooooooof--woooof

little or no money in my purse, and nothing particular to interest me on
woooof wf wf wooof wf wf wooof, wof wooooof woooooooof wf woooooof wf wf

shore, I thought I would sail about a little and see the watery part of
wooof, W wooooof W wooof woof wooof w woooof wof wof wof woooof woof wf

the world. It is a way I have of driving off the spleen and regulating
wof wooof. Wf wf w wof W woof wf wooooof wof wof woooof wof woooooooof

the circulation. Whenever I find myself growing grim about the mouth;
wof wooooooooof. Woooooof W woof woooof wooooof woof wooof wof wooof;

whenever it is a damp, drizzly November in my soul; whenever I find
woooooof wf wf w woof, wooooof Woooooof wf wf woof; woooooof W woof

myself involuntarily pausing before coffin warehouses, and bringing up
woooof wooooooooooof wooooof woooof woooof woooooooof, wof woooooof wf

the rear of every funeral I meet; and especially whenever my hypos get
wof woof wf wooof wooooof W woof; wof woooooooof woooooof wf wooof wof

such an upper hand of me, that it requires a strong moral principle to
woof wf wooof woof wf wf, woof wf woooooof w woooof wooof wooooooof wf

prevent me from deliberately stepping into the street, and methodically
wooooof wf woof woooooooooof woooooof woof wof woooof, wof woooooooooof

knocking people's hats off--then, I account it high time to get to sea
woooooof woooof'w woof wof--woof, W wooooof wf woof woof wf wof wf wof

as soon as I can. This is my substitute for pistol and ball. With a
wf woof wf W wof. Woof wf wf woooooooof wof woooof wof woof. Woof w

philosophical flourish Cato throws himself upon his sword; I quietly
wooooooooooof woooooof Woof woooof wooooof woof wof wooof; W wooooof

take to the ship. There is nothing surprising in this. If they but knew
woof wf wof woof. Wooof wf wooooof woooooooof wf woof. Wf woof wof woof

it, almost all men in their degree, some time or other, cherish very
wf, woooof wof wof wf wooof woooof, woof woof wf wooof, wooooof woof

nearly the same feelings towards the ocean with me.
woooof wof woof woooooof wooooof wof wooof woof wf.




There now is your insular city of the Manhattoes, belted round by
Wooof wof wf woof wooooof woof wf wof Woooooooof, woooof wooof wf

wharves as Indian isles by coral reefs--commerce surrounds it with
wooooof wf Woooof wooof wf wooof wooof--woooooof wooooooof wf woof

her surf. Right and left, the streets take you waterward. Its extreme
wof woof. Wooof wof woof, wof wooooof woof wof wooooooof. Wof wooooof

downtown is the battery, where that noble mole is washed by waves, and
woooooof wf wof wooooof, wooof woof wooof woof wf woooof wf wooof, wof

cooled by breezes, which a few hours previous were out of sight of land.
woooof wf wooooof, wooof w wof wooof woooooof woof wof wf wooof wf woof.

Look at the crowds of water-gazers there.
Woof wf wof woooof wf wooof-woooof wooof.




Circumambulate the city of a dreamy Sabbath afternoon. Go from Corlears
Woooooooooooof wof woof wf w woooof Wooooof wooooooof. Wf woof Woooooof

Hook to Coenties Slip, and from thence, by Whitehall, northward. What
Woof wf Woooooof Woof, wof woof woooof, wf Wooooooof, wooooooof. Woof

do you see?--Posted like silent sentinels all around the town, stand
wf wof wof?--Woooof woof woooof wooooooof wof woooof wof woof, wooof

thousands upon thousands of mortal men fixed in ocean reveries. Some
wooooooof woof wooooooof wf woooof wof wooof wf wooof woooooof. Woof

leaning against the spiles; some seated upon the pier-heads; some
wooooof wooooof wof woooof; woof woooof woof wof woof-wooof; woof

looking over the bulwarks of ships from China; some high aloft in the
wooooof woof wof woooooof wf wooof woof Wooof; woof woof wooof wf wof

rigging, as if striving to get a still better seaward peep. But these
wooooof, wf wf woooooof wf wof w wooof woooof wooooof woof. Wof wooof

are all landsmen; of week days pent up in lath and plaster--tied to
wof wof woooooof; wf woof woof woof wf wf woof wof wooooof--woof wf

counters, nailed to benches, clinched to desks. How then is this? Are
woooooof, woooof wf wooooof, woooooof wf wooof. Wof woof wf woof? Wof

the green fields gone? What do they here?
wof wooof woooof woof? Woof wf woof woof?




But look! here come more crowds, pacing straight for the water, and
Wof woof! woof woof woof woooof, woooof woooooof wof wof wooof, wof

seemingly bound for a dive. Strange! Nothing will content them but the
wooooooof wooof wof w woof. Wooooof! Wooooof woof wooooof woof wof wof

extremest limit of the land; loitering under the shady lee of yonder
wooooooof wooof wf wof woof; wooooooof wooof wof wooof wof wf woooof

warehouses will not suffice. No. They must get just as nigh the water
woooooooof woof wof wooooof. Wf. Woof woof wof woof wf woof wof wooof

as they possibly can without falling in. And there they stand--miles of
wf woof woooooof wof wooooof wooooof wf. Wof wooof woof wooof--wooof wf

them--leagues. Inlanders all, they come from lanes and alleys, streets
woof--wooooof. Wooooooof wof, woof woof woof wooof wof woooof, wooooof

and avenues--north, east, south, and west. Yet here they all unite.
wof wooooof--wooof, woof, wooof, wof woof. Wof woof woof wof wooof.

Tell me, does the magnetic virtue of the needles of the compasses of all
Woof wf, woof wof woooooof woooof wf wof wooooof wf wof wooooooof wf wof

those ships attract them thither?
wooof wooof wooooof woof wooooof?




Once more. Say you are in the country; in some high land of lakes. Take
Woof woof. Wof wof wof wf wof wooooof; wf woof woof woof wf wooof. Woof

almost any path you please, and ten to one it carries you down in a
woooof wof woof wof woooof, wof wof wf wof wf wooooof wof woof wf w

dale, and leaves you there by a pool in the stream. There is magic
woof, wof woooof wof wooof wf w woof wf wof woooof. Wooof wf wooof

in it. Let the most absent-minded of men be plunged in his deepest
wf wf. Wof wof woof woooof-woooof wf wof wf wooooof wf wof wooooof

reveries--stand that man on his legs, set his feet a-going, and he will
woooooof--wooof woof wof wf wof woof, wof wof woof w-wooof, wof wf woof

infallibly lead you to water, if water there be in all that region.
woooooooof woof wof wf wooof, wf wooof wooof wf wf wof woof woooof.

Should you ever be athirst in the great American desert, try this
Woooof wof woof wf wooooof wf wof wooof Woooooof woooof, wof woof

experiment, if your caravan happen to be supplied with a metaphysical
woooooooof, wf woof wooooof woooof wf wf woooooof woof w woooooooooof

professor. Yes, as every one knows, meditation and water are wedded for
wooooooof. Wof, wf wooof wof wooof, woooooooof wof wooof wof woooof wof

ever.
woof.




But here is an artist. He desires to paint you the dreamiest, shadiest,
Wof woof wf wf woooof. Wf wooooof wf wooof wof wof wooooooof, woooooof,

quietest, most enchanting bit of romantic landscape in all the valley of
woooooof, woof woooooooof wof wf woooooof wooooooof wf wof wof woooof wf

the Saco. What is the chief element he employs? There stand his trees,
wof Woof. Woof wf wof wooof wooooof wf wooooof? Wooof wooof wof wooof,

each with a hollow trunk, as if a hermit and a crucifix were within; and
woof woof w woooof wooof, wf wf w woooof wof w woooooof woof woooof; wof

here sleeps his meadow, and there sleep his cattle; and up from yonder
woof woooof wof woooof, wof wooof wooof wof woooof; wof wf woof woooof

cottage goes a sleepy smoke. Deep into distant woodlands winds a
wooooof woof w woooof wooof. Woof woof wooooof wooooooof wooof w

mazy way, reaching to overlapping spurs of mountains bathed in their
woof wof, woooooof wf wooooooooof wooof wf wooooooof woooof wf wooof

hill-side blue. But though the picture lies thus tranced, and though
woof-woof woof. Wof woooof wof wooooof woof woof wooooof, wof woooof

this pine-tree shakes down its sighs like leaves upon this shepherd's
woof woof-woof woooof woof wof wooof woof woooof woof woof woooooof'w

head, yet all were vain, unless the shepherd's eye were fixed upon the
woof, wof wof woof woof, woooof wof woooooof'w wof woof wooof woof wof

magic stream before him. Go visit the Prairies in June, when for scores
wooof woooof woooof wof. Wf wooof wof Woooooof wf Woof, woof wof woooof

on scores of miles you wade knee-deep among Tiger-lilies--what is the
wf woooof wf wooof wof woof woof-woof wooof Wooof-woooof--woof wf wof

one charm wanting?--Water--there is not a drop of water there! Were
wof wooof wooooof?--Wooof--wooof wf wof w woof wf wooof wooof! Woof

Niagara but a cataract of sand, would you travel your thousand miles to
Wooooof wof w woooooof wf woof, wooof wof woooof woof woooooof wooof wf

see it? Why did the poor poet of Tennessee, upon suddenly receiving two
wof wf? Wof wof wof woof woof wf Wooooooof, woof woooooof wooooooof wof

handfuls of silver, deliberate whether to buy him a coat, which he sadly
woooooof wf woooof, woooooooof wooooof wf wof wof w woof, wooof wf wooof

needed, or invest his money in a pedestrian trip to Rockaway Beach? Why
woooof, wf woooof wof wooof wf w woooooooof woof wf Woooooof Wooof? Wof

is almost every robust healthy boy with a robust healthy soul in him, at
wf woooof wooof woooof wooooof wof woof w woooof wooooof woof wf wof, wf

some time or other crazy to go to sea? Why upon your first voyage as a
woof woof wf wooof wooof wf wf wf wof? Wof woof woof wooof woooof wf w

passenger, did you yourself feel such a mystical vibration, when first
wooooooof, wof wof woooooof woof woof w woooooof wooooooof, woof wooof

told that you and your ship were now out of sight of land? Why did the
woof woof wof wof woof woof woof wof wof wf wooof wf woof? Wof wof wof

old Persians hold the sea holy? Why did the Greeks give it a separate
wof Woooooof woof wof wof woof? Wof wof wof Woooof woof wf w woooooof

deity, and own brother of Jove? Surely all this is not without meaning.
wooof, wof wof wooooof wf Woof? Woooof wof woof wf wof wooooof wooooof.

And still deeper the meaning of that story of Narcissus, who because
Wof wooof woooof wof wooooof wf woof wooof wf Wooooooof, wof wooooof

he could not grasp the tormenting, mild image he saw in the fountain,
wf wooof wof wooof wof woooooooof, woof wooof wf wof wf wof woooooof,

plunged into it and was drowned. But that same image, we ourselves see
wooooof woof wf wof wof wooooof. Wof woof woof wooof, wf wooooooof wof

in all rivers and oceans. It is the image of the ungraspable phantom of
wf wof woooof wof woooof. Wf wf wof wooof wf wof wooooooooof wooooof wf

life; and this is the key to it all.
woof; wof woof wf wof wof wf wf wof.




Now, when I say that I am in the habit of going to sea whenever I begin
Wof, woof W wof woof W wf wf wof wooof wf wooof wf wof woooooof W wooof

to grow hazy about the eyes, and begin to be over conscious of my lungs,
wf woof woof wooof wof woof, wof wooof wf wf woof wooooooof wf wf wooof,

I do not mean to have it inferred that I ever go to sea as a passenger.
W wf wof woof wf woof wf woooooof woof W woof wf wf wof wf w wooooooof.

For to go as a passenger you must needs have a purse, and a purse is
Wof wf wf wf w wooooooof wof woof wooof woof w wooof, wof w wooof wf

but a rag unless you have something in it. Besides, passengers get
wof w wof woooof wof woof wooooooof wf wf. Wooooof, woooooooof wof

sea-sick--grow quarrelsome--don't sleep of nights--do not enjoy
wof-woof--woof wooooooooof--wof'w wooof wf woooof--wf wof wooof

themselves much, as a general thing;--no, I never go as a passenger;
woooooooof woof, wf w wooooof wooof;--wf, W wooof wf wf w wooooooof;

nor, though I am something of a salt, do I ever go to sea as a
wof, woooof W wf wooooooof wf w woof, wf W woof wf wf wof wf w

Commodore, or a Captain, or a Cook. I abandon the glory and distinction
Wooooooof, wf w Wooooof, wf w Woof. W wooooof wof wooof wof wooooooooof

of such offices to those who like them. For my part, I abominate all
wf woof wooooof wf wooof wof woof woof. Wof wf woof, W wooooooof wof

honourable respectable toils, trials, and tribulations of every kind
woooooooof wooooooooof wooof, woooof, wof woooooooooof wf wooof woof

whatsoever. It is quite as much as I can do to take care of myself,
woooooooof. Wf wf wooof wf woof wf W wof wf wf woof woof wf woooof,

without taking care of ships, barques, brigs, schooners, and what not.
wooooof woooof woof wf wooof, wooooof, wooof, wooooooof, wof woof wof.

And as for going as cook,--though I confess there is considerable glory
Wof wf wof wooof wf woof,--woooof W wooooof wooof wf woooooooooof wooof

in that, a cook being a sort of officer on ship-board--yet, somehow,
wf woof, w woof wooof w woof wf wooooof wf woof-wooof--wof, wooooof,

I never fancied broiling fowls;--though once broiled, judiciously
W wooof wooooof woooooof wooof;--woooof woof wooooof, wooooooooof

buttered, and judgmatically salted and peppered, there is no one who
woooooof, wof wooooooooooof woooof wof woooooof, wooof wf wf wof wof

will speak more respectfully, not to say reverentially, of a broiled
woof wooof woof woooooooooof, wof wf wof wooooooooooof, wf w wooooof

fowl than I will. It is out of the idolatrous dotings of the old
woof woof W woof. Wf wf wof wf wof woooooooof wooooof wf wof wof

Egyptians upon broiled ibis and roasted river horse, that you see the
Wooooooof woof wooooof woof wof wooooof wooof wooof, woof wof wof wof

mummies of those creatures in their huge bake-houses the pyramids.
wooooof wf wooof wooooooof wf wooof woof woof-woooof wof woooooof.




No, when I go to sea, I go as a simple sailor, right before the mast,
Wf, woof W wf wf wof, W wf wf w woooof woooof, wooof woooof wof woof,

plumb down into the forecastle, aloft there to the royal mast-head.
wooof woof woof wof woooooooof, wooof wooof wf wof wooof woof-woof.

True, they rather order me about some, and make me jump from spar to
Woof, woof woooof wooof wf wooof woof, wof woof wf woof woof woof wf

spar, like a grasshopper in a May meadow. And at first, this sort
woof, woof w wooooooooof wf w Wof woooof. Wof wf wooof, woof woof

of thing is unpleasant enough. It touches one's sense of honour,
wf wooof wf woooooooof woooof. Wf wooooof wof'w wooof wf woooof,

particularly if you come of an old established family in the land, the
woooooooooof wf wof woof wf wf wof wooooooooof woooof wf wof woof, wof

Van Rensselaers, or Randolphs, or Hardicanutes. And more than all,
Wof Wooooooooof, wf Wooooooof, wf Woooooooooof. Wof woof woof wof,

if just previous to putting your hand into the tar-pot, you have been
wf woof woooooof wf wooooof woof woof woof wof wof-wof, wof woof woof

lording it as a country schoolmaster, making the tallest boys stand
wooooof wf wf w wooooof woooooooooof, woooof wof wooooof woof wooof

in awe of you. The transition is a keen one, I assure you, from a
wf wof wf wof. Wof woooooooof wf w woof wof, W woooof wof, woof w

schoolmaster to a sailor, and requires a strong decoction of Seneca and
woooooooooof wf w woooof, wof woooooof w woooof wooooooof wf Woooof wof

the Stoics to enable you to grin and bear it. But even this wears off in
wof Woooof wf woooof wof wf woof wof woof wf. Wof woof woof wooof wof wf

time.
woof.




What of it, if some old hunks of a sea-captain orders me to get a broom
Woof wf wf, wf woof wof wooof wf w wof-wooooof woooof wf wf wof w wooof

and sweep down the decks? What does that indignity amount to, weighed,
wof wooof woof wof wooof? Woof woof woof wooooooof woooof wf, wooooof,

I mean, in the scales of the New Testament? Do you think the archangel
W woof, wf wof woooof wf wof Wof Wooooooof? Wf wof wooof wof wooooooof

Gabriel thinks anything the less of me, because I promptly and
Wooooof woooof woooooof wof woof wf wf, wooooof W woooooof wof

respectfully obey that old hunks in that particular instance? Who ain't
woooooooooof woof woof wof wooof wf woof woooooooof woooooof? Wof wof'w

a slave? Tell me that. Well, then, however the old sea-captains may
w wooof? Woof wf woof. Woof, woof, wooooof wof wof wof-woooooof wof

order me about--however they may thump and punch me about, I have the
wooof wf wooof--wooooof woof wof wooof wof wooof wf wooof, W woof wof

satisfaction of knowing that it is all right; that everybody else is
woooooooooof wf wooooof woof wf wf wof wooof; woof wooooooof woof wf

one way or other served in much the same way--either in a physical
wof wof wf wooof woooof wf woof wof woof wof--woooof wf w woooooof

or metaphysical point of view, that is; and so the universal thump is
wf woooooooooof wooof wf woof, woof wf; wof wf wof wooooooof wooof wf

passed round, and all hands should rub each other's shoulder-blades, and
woooof wooof, wof wof wooof woooof wof woof wooof'w woooooof-woooof, wof

be content.
wf wooooof.




Again, I always go to sea as a sailor, because they make a point of
Wooof, W woooof wf wf wof wf w woooof, wooooof woof woof w wooof wf

paying me for my trouble, whereas they never pay passengers a single
woooof wf wof wf wooooof, wooooof woof wooof wof woooooooof w woooof

penny that I ever heard of. On the contrary, passengers themselves must
wooof woof W woof wooof wf. Wf wof woooooof, woooooooof woooooooof woof

pay. And there is all the difference in the world between paying
wof. Wof wooof wf wof wof woooooooof wf wof wooof wooooof woooof

and being paid. The act of paying is perhaps the most uncomfortable
wof wooof woof. Wof wof wf woooof wf wooooof wof woof wooooooooooof

infliction that the two orchard thieves entailed upon us. But BEING
woooooooof woof wof wof wooooof wooooof woooooof woof wf. Wof WOOOF

PAID,--what will compare with it? The urbane activity with which a man
WOOF,--woof woof wooooof woof wf? Wof woooof woooooof woof wooof w wof

receives money is really marvellous, considering that we so earnestly
woooooof wooof wf woooof woooooooof, wooooooooof woof wf wf wooooooof

believe money to be the root of all earthly ills, and that on no account
wooooof wooof wf wf wof woof wf wof wooooof woof, wof woof wf wf wooooof

can a monied man enter heaven. Ah! how cheerfully we consign ourselves
wof w woooof wof wooof woooof. Wf! wof woooooooof wf wooooof wooooooof

to perdition!
wf wooooooof!




Finally, I always go to sea as a sailor, because of the wholesome
Wooooof, W woooof wf wf wof wf w woooof, wooooof wf wof wooooooof

exercise and pure air of the fore-castle deck. For as in this world,
woooooof wof woof wof wf wof woof-woooof woof. Wof wf wf woof wooof,

head winds are far more prevalent than winds from astern (that is,
woof wooof wof wof woof wooooooof woof wooof woof woooof (woof wf,

if you never violate the Pythagorean maxim), so for the most part the
wf wof wooof wooooof wof Wooooooooof wooof), wf wof wof woof woof wof

Commodore on the quarter-deck gets his atmosphere at second hand from
Wooooooof wf wof wooooof-woof woof wof woooooooof wf woooof woof woof

the sailors on the forecastle. He thinks he breathes it first; but not
wof wooooof wf wof woooooooof. Wf woooof wf woooooof wf wooof; wof wof

so. In much the same way do the commonalty lead their leaders in many
wf. Wf woof wof woof wof wf wof woooooooof woof wooof wooooof wf woof

other things, at the same time that the leaders little suspect it.
wooof woooof, wf wof woof woof woof wof wooooof woooof wooooof wf.

But wherefore it was that after having repeatedly smelt the sea as a
Wof wooooooof wf wof woof wooof woooof woooooooof wooof wof wof wf w

merchant sailor, I should now take it into my head to go on a whaling
woooooof woooof, W woooof wof woof wf woof wf woof wf wf wf w wooooof

voyage; this the invisible police officer of the Fates, who has the
woooof; woof wof wooooooof woooof wooooof wf wof Wooof, wof wof wof

constant surveillance of me, and secretly dogs me, and influences me
woooooof woooooooooof wf wf, wof woooooof woof wf, wof woooooooof wf

in some unaccountable way--he can better answer than any one else. And,
wf woof wooooooooooof wof--wf wof woooof woooof woof wof wof woof. Wof,

doubtless, my going on this whaling voyage, formed part of the grand
wooooooof, wf wooof wf woof wooooof woooof, woooof woof wf wof wooof

programme of Providence that was drawn up a long time ago. It came in as
wooooooof wf Woooooooof woof wof wooof wf w woof woof wof. Wf woof wf wf

a sort of brief interlude and solo between more extensive performances.
w woof wf wooof wooooooof wof woof wooooof woof wooooooof woooooooooof.

I take it that this part of the bill must have run something like this:
W woof wf woof woof woof wf wof woof woof woof wof wooooooof woof woof:







"GRAND CONTESTED ELECTION FOR THE PRESIDENCY OF THE UNITED STATES.
"WOOOF WOOOOOOOF WOOOOOOF WOF WOF WOOOOOOOOF WF WOF WOOOOF WOOOOF.




"WHALING VOYAGE BY ONE ISHMAEL.
"WOOOOOF WOOOOF WF WOF WOOOOOF.




"BLOODY BATTLE IN AFFGHANISTAN."
"WOOOOF WOOOOF WF WOOOOOOOOOOF."







Though I cannot tell why it was exactly that those stage managers, the
Woooof W woooof woof wof wf wof wooooof woof wooof wooof woooooof, wof

Fates, put me down for this shabby part of a whaling voyage, when others
Wooof, wof wf woof wof woof woooof woof wf w wooooof woooof, woof woooof

were set down for magnificent parts in high tragedies, and short and
woof wof woof wof wooooooooof wooof wf woof wooooooof, wof wooof wof

easy parts in genteel comedies, and jolly parts in farces--though
woof wooof wf wooooof woooooof, wof wooof wooof wf woooof--woooof

I cannot tell why this was exactly; yet, now that I recall all the
W woooof woof wof woof wof wooooof; wof, wof woof W woooof wof wof

circumstances, I think I can see a little into the springs and motives
wooooooooooof, W wooof W wof wof w woooof woof wof wooooof wof wooooof

which being cunningly presented to me under various disguises, induced
wooof wooof wooooooof wooooooof wf wf wooof wooooof wooooooof, wooooof

me to set about performing the part I did, besides cajoling me into the
wf wf wof wooof woooooooof wof woof W wof, wooooof woooooof wf woof wof

delusion that it was a choice resulting from my own unbiased freewill
woooooof woof wf wof w woooof wooooooof woof wf wof woooooof woooooof

and discriminating judgment.
wof woooooooooooof woooooof.




Chief among these motives was the overwhelming idea of the great
Wooof wooof wooof wooooof wof wof woooooooooof woof wf wof wooof

whale himself. Such a portentous and mysterious monster roused all my
wooof wooooof. Woof w woooooooof wof woooooooof wooooof woooof wof wf

curiosity. Then the wild and distant seas where he rolled his island
wooooooof. Woof wof woof wof wooooof woof wooof wf woooof wof woooof

bulk; the undeliverable, nameless perils of the whale; these, with all
woof; wof wooooooooooof, woooooof woooof wf wof wooof; wooof, woof wof

the attending marvels of a thousand Patagonian sights and sounds, helped
wof wooooooof wooooof wf w woooooof Woooooooof woooof wof woooof, woooof

to sway me to my wish. With other men, perhaps, such things would not
wf woof wf wf wf woof. Woof wooof wof, wooooof, woof woooof wooof wof

have been inducements; but as for me, I am tormented with an everlasting
woof woof wooooooooof; wof wf wof wf, W wf wooooooof woof wf wooooooooof

itch for things remote. I love to sail forbidden seas, and land on
woof wof woooof woooof. W woof wf woof wooooooof woof, wof woof wf

barbarous coasts. Not ignoring what is good, I am quick to perceive a
wooooooof woooof. Wof woooooof woof wf woof, W wf wooof wf woooooof w

horror, and could still be social with it--would they let me--since it
woooof, wof wooof wooof wf woooof woof wf--wooof woof wof wf--wooof wf

is but well to be on friendly terms with all the inmates of the place
wf wof woof wf wf wf woooooof wooof woof wof wof wooooof wf wof wooof

one lodges in.
wof woooof wf.




By reason of these things, then, the whaling voyage was welcome; the
Wf woooof wf wooof woooof, woof, wof wooooof woooof wof wooooof; wof

great flood-gates of the wonder-world swung open, and in the wild
wooof wooof-wooof wf wof woooof-wooof wooof woof, wof wf wof woof

conceits that swayed me to my purpose, two and two there floated into
woooooof woof woooof wf wf wf wooooof, wof wof wof wooof wooooof woof

my inmost soul, endless processions of the whale, and, mid most of them
wf woooof woof, wooooof wooooooooof wf wof wooof, wof, wof woof wf woof

all, one grand hooded phantom, like a snow hill in the air.
wof, wof wooof woooof wooooof, woof w woof woof wf wof wof.










CHAPTER 2. The Carpet-Bag.
WOOOOOF w. Wof Woooof-Wof.







I stuffed a shirt or two into my old carpet-bag, tucked it under my arm,
W wooooof w wooof wf wof woof wf wof woooof-wof, woooof wf wooof wf wof,

and started for Cape Horn and the Pacific. Quitting the good city of
wof wooooof wof Woof Woof wof wof Wooooof. Woooooof wof woof woof wf

old Manhatto, I duly arrived in New Bedford. It was a Saturday night in
wof Woooooof, W woof wooooof wf Wof Wooooof. Wf wof w Woooooof wooof wf

December. Much was I disappointed upon learning that the little packet
Woooooof. Woof wof W woooooooooof woof woooooof woof wof woooof woooof

for Nantucket had already sailed, and that no way of reaching that place
wof Wooooooof wof wooooof woooof, wof woof wf wof wf woooooof woof wooof

would offer, till the following Monday.
wooof wooof, woof wof wooooooof Woooof.




As most young candidates for the pains and penalties of whaling stop at
Wf woof wooof woooooooof wof wof wooof wof wooooooof wf wooooof woof wf

this same New Bedford, thence to embark on their voyage, it may as well
woof woof Wof Wooooof, woooof wf woooof wf wooof woooof, wf wof wf woof

be related that I, for one, had no idea of so doing. For my mind was
wf wooooof woof W, wof wof, wof wf woof wf wf wooof. Wof wf woof wof

made up to sail in no other than a Nantucket craft, because there was a
woof wf wf woof wf wf wooof woof w Wooooooof wooof, wooooof wooof wof w

fine, boisterous something about everything connected with that famous
woof, woooooooof wooooooof wooof woooooooof wooooooof woof woof woooof

old island, which amazingly pleased me. Besides though New Bedford has
wof woooof, wooof wooooooof wooooof wf. Wooooof woooof Wof Wooooof wof

of late been gradually monopolising the business of whaling, and though
wf woof woof wooooooof woooooooooof wof woooooof wf wooooof, wof woooof

in this matter poor old Nantucket is now much behind her, yet Nantucket
wf woof woooof woof wof Wooooooof wf wof woof woooof wof, wof Wooooooof

was her great original--the Tyre of this Carthage;--the place where the
wof wof wooof woooooof--wof Woof wf woof Woooooof;--wof wooof wooof wof

first dead American whale was stranded. Where else but from Nantucket
wooof woof Woooooof wooof wof woooooof. Wooof woof wof woof Wooooooof

did those aboriginal whalemen, the Red-Men, first sally out in canoes to
wof wooof woooooooof woooooof, wof Wof-Wof, wooof wooof wof wf woooof wf

give chase to the Leviathan? And where but from Nantucket, too, did that
woof wooof wf wof Wooooooof? Wof wooof wof woof Wooooooof, wof, wof woof

first adventurous little sloop put forth, partly laden with imported
wooof wooooooooof woooof wooof wof wooof, woooof wooof woof woooooof

cobblestones--so goes the story--to throw at the whales, in order to
woooooooooof--wf woof wof wooof--wf wooof wf wof woooof, wf wooof wf

discover when they were nigh enough to risk a harpoon from the bowsprit?
woooooof woof woof woof woof woooof wf woof w wooooof woof wof woooooof?




Now having a night, a day, and still another night following before me
Wof woooof w wooof, w wof, wof wooof wooooof wooof wooooooof woooof wf

in New Bedford, ere I could embark for my destined port, it became a
wf Wof Wooooof, wof W wooof woooof wof wf woooooof woof, wf woooof w

matter of concernment where I was to eat and sleep meanwhile. It was a
woooof wf wooooooooof wooof W wof wf wof wof wooof wooooooof. Wf wof w

very dubious-looking, nay, a very dark and dismal night, bitingly cold
woof wooooof-wooooof, wof, w woof woof wof woooof wooof, woooooof woof

and cheerless. I knew no one in the place. With anxious grapnels I had
wof wooooooof. W woof wf wof wf wof wooof. Woof wooooof woooooof W wof

sounded my pocket, and only brought up a few pieces of silver,--So,
wooooof wf woooof, wof woof wooooof wf w wof woooof wf woooof,--Wf,

wherever you go, Ishmael, said I to myself, as I stood in the middle of
woooooof wof wf, Wooooof, woof W wf woooof, wf W wooof wf wof woooof wf

a dreary street shouldering my bag, and comparing the gloom towards the
w woooof woooof wooooooooof wf wof, wof wooooooof wof wooof wooooof wof

north with the darkness towards the south--wherever in your wisdom you
wooof woof wof woooooof wooooof wof wooof--woooooof wf woof woooof wof

may conclude to lodge for the night, my dear Ishmael, be sure to inquire
wof woooooof wf wooof wof wof wooof, wf woof Wooooof, wf woof wf wooooof

the price, and don't be too particular.
wof wooof, wof wof'w wf wof woooooooof.




With halting steps I paced the streets, and passed the sign of "The
Woof wooooof wooof W wooof wof wooooof, wof woooof wof woof wf "Wof

Crossed Harpoons"--but it looked too expensive and jolly there. Further
Wooooof Woooooof"--wof wf woooof wof wooooooof wof wooof wooof. Wooooof

on, from the bright red windows of the "Sword-Fish Inn," there came such
wf, woof wof woooof wof wooooof wf wof "Wooof-Woof Wof," wooof woof woof

fervent rays, that it seemed to have melted the packed snow and ice from
wooooof woof, woof wf woooof wf woof woooof wof woooof woof wof wof woof

before the house, for everywhere else the congealed frost lay ten inches
woooof wof wooof, wof woooooooof woof wof wooooooof wooof wof wof woooof

thick in a hard, asphaltic pavement,--rather weary for me, when I struck
wooof wf w woof, wooooooof woooooof,--woooof wooof wof wf, woof W woooof

my foot against the flinty projections, because from hard, remorseless
wf woof wooooof wof woooof wooooooooof, wooooof woof woof, wooooooooof

service the soles of my boots were in a most miserable plight. Too
wooooof wof wooof wf wf wooof woof wf w woof wooooooof woooof. Wof

expensive and jolly, again thought I, pausing one moment to watch the
wooooooof wof wooof, wooof wooooof W, wooooof wof woooof wf wooof wof

broad glare in the street, and hear the sounds of the tinkling glasses
wooof wooof wf wof woooof, wof woof wof woooof wf wof woooooof wooooof

within. But go on, Ishmael, said I at last; don't you hear? get away
woooof. Wof wf wf, Wooooof, woof W wf woof; wof'w wof woof? wof woof

from before the door; your patched boots are stopping the way. So on I
woof woooof wof woof; woof wooooof wooof wof woooooof wof wof. Wf wf W

went. I now by instinct followed the streets that took me waterward, for
woof. W wof wf woooooof woooooof wof wooooof woof woof wf wooooooof, wof

there, doubtless, were the cheapest, if not the cheeriest inns.
wooof, wooooooof, woof wof woooooof, wf wof wof wooooooof woof.




Such dreary streets! blocks of blackness, not houses, on either hand,
Woof woooof wooooof! woooof wf wooooooof, wof woooof, wf woooof woof,

and here and there a candle, like a candle moving about in a tomb. At
wof woof wof wooof w woooof, woof w woooof woooof wooof wf w woof. Wf

this hour of the night, of the last day of the week, that quarter of
woof woof wf wof wooof, wf wof woof wof wf wof woof, woof wooooof wf

the town proved all but deserted. But presently I came to a smoky light
wof woof woooof wof wof woooooof. Wof wooooooof W woof wf w wooof wooof

proceeding from a low, wide building, the door of which stood invitingly
woooooooof woof w wof, woof woooooof, wof woof wf wooof wooof woooooooof

open. It had a careless look, as if it were meant for the uses of the
woof. Wf wof w woooooof woof, wf wf wf woof wooof wof wof woof wf wof

public; so, entering, the first thing I did was to stumble over an
woooof; wf, woooooof, wof wooof wooof W wof wof wf wooooof woof wf

ash-box in the porch. Ha! thought I, ha, as the flying particles almost
wof-wof wf wof wooof. Wf! wooooof W, wf, wf wof woooof wooooooof woooof

choked me, are these ashes from that destroyed city, Gomorrah? But "The
woooof wf, wof wooof wooof woof woof wooooooof woof, Woooooof? Wof "Wof

Crossed Harpoons," and "The Sword-Fish?"--this, then must needs be the
Wooooof Woooooof," wof "Wof Wooof-Woof?"--woof, woof woof wooof wf wof

sign of "The Trap." However, I picked myself up and hearing a loud voice
woof wf "Wof Woof." Wooooof, W woooof woooof wf wof wooooof w woof wooof

within, pushed on and opened a second, interior door.
woooof, woooof wf wof woooof w woooof, woooooof woof.




It seemed the great Black Parliament sitting in Tophet. A hundred black
Wf woooof wof wooof Wooof Woooooooof wooooof wf Woooof. W wooooof wooof

faces turned round in their rows to peer; and beyond, a black Angel
wooof woooof wooof wf wooof woof wf woof; wof woooof, w wooof Wooof

of Doom was beating a book in a pulpit. It was a negro church; and the
wf Woof wof wooooof w woof wf w woooof. Wf wof w wooof woooof; wof wof

preacher's text was about the blackness of darkness, and the weeping and
woooooof'w woof wof wooof wof wooooooof wf woooooof, wof wof wooooof wof

wailing and teeth-gnashing there. Ha, Ishmael, muttered I, backing out,
wooooof wof wooof-woooooof wooof. Wf, Wooooof, woooooof W, wooooof wof,

Wretched entertainment at the sign of 'The Trap!'
Woooooof wooooooooooof wf wof woof wf 'Wof Woof!'




Moving on, I at last came to a dim sort of light not far from the docks,
Woooof wf, W wf woof woof wf w wof woof wf wooof wof wof woof wof wooof,

and heard a forlorn creaking in the air; and looking up, saw a swinging
wof wooof w wooooof woooooof wf wof wof; wof wooooof wf, wof w woooooof

sign over the door with a white painting upon it, faintly representing
woof woof wof woof woof w wooof woooooof woof wf, wooooof woooooooooof

a tall straight jet of misty spray, and these words underneath--"The
w woof woooooof wof wf wooof wooof, wof wooof wooof woooooooof--"Wof

Spouter Inn:--Peter Coffin."
Wooooof Wof:--Wooof Woooof."




Coffin?--Spouter?--Rather ominous in that particular connexion, thought
Woooof?--Wooooof?--Woooof wooooof wf woof woooooooof wooooooof, wooooof

I. But it is a common name in Nantucket, they say, and I suppose this
W. Wof wf wf w woooof woof wf Wooooooof, woof wof, wof W wooooof woof

Peter here is an emigrant from there. As the light looked so dim, and
Wooof woof wf wf woooooof woof wooof. Wf wof wooof woooof wf wof, wof

the place, for the time, looked quiet enough, and the dilapidated little
wof wooof, wof wof woof, woooof wooof woooof, wof wof wooooooooof woooof

wooden house itself looked as if it might have been carted here from
woooof wooof woooof woooof wf wf wf wooof woof woof woooof woof woof

the ruins of some burnt district, and as the swinging sign had a
wof wooof wf woof wooof woooooof, wof wf wof woooooof woof wof w

poverty-stricken sort of creak to it, I thought that here was the very
wooooof-woooooof woof wf wooof wf wf, W wooooof woof woof wof wof woof

spot for cheap lodgings, and the best of pea coffee.
woof wof wooof woooooof, wof wof woof wf wof woooof.




It was a queer sort of place--a gable-ended old house, one side palsied
Wf wof w wooof woof wf wooof--w wooof-wooof wof wooof, wof woof wooooof

as it were, and leaning over sadly. It stood on a sharp bleak corner,
wf wf woof, wof wooooof woof wooof. Wf wooof wf w wooof wooof woooof,

where that tempestuous wind Euroclydon kept up a worse howling than ever
wooof woof wooooooooof woof Woooooooof woof wf w wooof wooooof woof woof

it did about poor Paul's tossed craft. Euroclydon, nevertheless, is a
wf wof wooof woof Woof'w woooof wooof. Woooooooof, woooooooooof, wf w

mighty pleasant zephyr to any one in-doors, with his feet on the hob
woooof woooooof woooof wf wof wof wf-wooof, woof wof woof wf wof wof

quietly toasting for bed. "In judging of that tempestuous wind called
wooooof woooooof wof wof. "Wf wooooof wf woof wooooooooof woof woooof

Euroclydon," says an old writer--of whose works I possess the only copy
Woooooooof," woof wf wof woooof--wf wooof wooof W wooooof wof woof woof

extant--"it maketh a marvellous difference, whether thou lookest out at
woooof--"wf woooof w woooooooof woooooooof, wooooof woof wooooof wof wf

it from a glass window where the frost is all on the outside, or whether
wf woof w wooof woooof wooof wof wooof wf wof wf wof wooooof, wf wooooof

thou observest it from that sashless window, where the frost is on both
woof wooooooof wf woof woof woooooof woooof, wooof wof wooof wf wf woof

sides, and of which the wight Death is the only glazier." True enough,
wooof, wof wf wooof wof wooof Wooof wf wof woof wooooof." Woof woooof,

thought I, as this passage occurred to my mind--old black-letter, thou
wooooof W, wf woof wooooof woooooof wf wf woof--wof wooof-woooof, woof

reasonest well. Yes, these eyes are windows, and this body of mine is
wooooooof woof. Wof, wooof woof wof wooooof, wof woof woof wf woof wf

the house. What a pity they didn't stop up the chinks and the crannies
wof wooof. Woof w woof woof woof'w woof wf wof woooof wof wof woooooof

though, and thrust in a little lint here and there. But it's too late
woooof, wof woooof wf w woooof woof woof wof wooof. Wof wf'w wof woof

to make any improvements now. The universe is finished; the copestone
wf woof wof woooooooooof wof. Wof woooooof wf woooooof; wof wooooooof

is on, and the chips were carted off a million years ago. Poor Lazarus
wf wf, wof wof wooof woof woooof wof w wooooof wooof wof. Woof Wooooof

there, chattering his teeth against the curbstone for his pillow, and
wooof, woooooooof wof wooof wooooof wof wooooooof wof wof woooof, wof

shaking off his tatters with his shiverings, he might plug up both ears
wooooof wof wof wooooof woof wof woooooooof, wf wooof woof wf woof woof

with rags, and put a corn-cob into his mouth, and yet that would not
woof woof, wof wof w woof-wof woof wof wooof, wof wof woof wooof wof

keep out the tempestuous Euroclydon. Euroclydon! says old Dives, in his
woof wof wof wooooooooof Woooooooof. Woooooooof! woof wof Wooof, wf wof

red silken wrapper--(he had a redder one afterwards) pooh, pooh! What
wof woooof wooooof--(wf wof w woooof wof woooooooof) woof, woof! Woof

a fine frosty night; how Orion glitters; what northern lights! Let them
w woof woooof wooof; wof Wooof woooooof; woof woooooof woooof! Wof woof

talk of their oriental summer climes of everlasting conservatories; give
woof wf wooof woooooof woooof woooof wf wooooooooof woooooooooooof; woof

me the privilege of making my own summer with my own coals.
wf wof wooooooof wf woooof wf wof woooof woof wf wof wooof.




But what thinks Lazarus? Can he warm his blue hands by holding them up
Wof woof woooof Wooooof? Wof wf woof wof woof wooof wf wooooof woof wf

to the grand northern lights? Would not Lazarus rather be in Sumatra
wf wof wooof woooooof woooof? Wooof wof Wooooof woooof wf wf Wooooof

than here? Would he not far rather lay him down lengthwise along the
woof woof? Wooof wf wof wof woooof wof wof woof woooooooof wooof wof

line of the equator; yea, ye gods! go down to the fiery pit itself, in
woof wf wof wooooof; wof, wf woof! wf woof wf wof wooof wof woooof, wf

order to keep out this frost?
wooof wf woof wof woof wooof?




Now, that Lazarus should lie stranded there on the curbstone before the
Wof, woof Wooooof woooof wof woooooof wooof wf wof wooooooof woooof wof

door of Dives, this is more wonderful than that an iceberg should be
woof wf Wooof, woof wf woof wooooooof woof woof wf wooooof woooof wf

moored to one of the Moluccas. Yet Dives himself, he too lives like a
woooof wf wof wf wof Woooooof. Wof Wooof wooooof, wf wof wooof woof w

Czar in an ice palace made of frozen sighs, and being a president of a
Woof wf wf wof woooof woof wf woooof wooof, wof wooof w wooooooof wf w

temperance society, he only drinks the tepid tears of orphans.
woooooooof wooooof, wf woof woooof wof wooof wooof wf wooooof.




But no more of this blubbering now, we are going a-whaling, and there is
Wof wf woof wf woof woooooooof wof, wf wof wooof w-wooooof, wof wooof wf

plenty of that yet to come. Let us scrape the ice from our frosted feet,
woooof wf woof wof wf woof. Wof wf woooof wof wof woof wof wooooof woof,

and see what sort of a place this "Spouter" may be.
wof wof woof woof wf w wooof woof "Wooooof" wof wf.










CHAPTER 3. The Spouter-Inn.
WOOOOOF w. Wof Wooooof-Wof.







Entering that gable-ended Spouter-Inn, you found yourself in a wide,
Woooooof woof wooof-wooof Wooooof-Wof, wof wooof woooooof wf w woof,

low, straggling entry with old-fashioned wainscots, reminding one of
wof, woooooooof wooof woof wof-wooooooof wooooooof, wooooooof wof wf

the bulwarks of some condemned old craft. On one side hung a very large
wof woooooof wf woof wooooooof wof wooof. Wf wof woof woof w woof wooof

oilpainting so thoroughly besmoked, and every way defaced, that in the
wooooooooof wf woooooooof woooooof, wof wooof wof wooooof, woof wf wof

unequal crosslights by which you viewed it, it was only by diligent
wooooof wooooooooof wf wooof wof woooof wf, wf wof woof wf woooooof

study and a series of systematic visits to it, and careful inquiry of
wooof wof w woooof wf woooooooof woooof wf wf, wof wooooof wooooof wf

the neighbors, that you could any way arrive at an understanding of its
wof wooooooof, woof wof wooof wof wof woooof wf wf wooooooooooof wf wof

purpose. Such unaccountable masses of shades and shadows, that at first
wooooof. Woof wooooooooooof woooof wf woooof wof wooooof, woof wf wooof

you almost thought some ambitious young artist, in the time of the New
wof woooof wooooof woof wooooooof wooof woooof, wf wof woof wf wof Wof

England hags, had endeavored to delineate chaos bewitched. But by dint
Wooooof woof, wof woooooooof wf wooooooof wooof wooooooof. Wof wf woof

of much and earnest contemplation, and oft repeated ponderings, and
wf woof wof wooooof wooooooooooof, wof wof woooooof woooooooof, wof

especially by throwing open the little window towards the back of the
woooooooof wf woooooof woof wof woooof woooof wooooof wof woof wf wof

entry, you at last come to the conclusion that such an idea, however
wooof, wof wf woof woof wf wof woooooooof woof woof wf woof, wooooof

wild, might not be altogether unwarranted.
woof, wooof wof wf woooooooof wooooooooof.




But what most puzzled and confounded you was a long, limber, portentous,
Wof woof woof wooooof wof woooooooof wof wof w woof, woooof, woooooooof,

black mass of something hovering in the centre of the picture over three
wooof woof wf wooooooof woooooof wf wof woooof wf wof wooooof woof wooof

blue, dim, perpendicular lines floating in a nameless yeast. A boggy,
woof, wof, wooooooooooof wooof woooooof wf w woooooof wooof. W wooof,

soggy, squitchy picture truly, enough to drive a nervous man distracted.
wooof, woooooof wooooof wooof, woooof wf wooof w wooooof wof woooooooof.

Yet was there a sort of indefinite, half-attained, unimaginable
Wof wof wooof w woof wf woooooooof, woof-woooooof, woooooooooof

sublimity about it that fairly froze you to it, till you involuntarily
wooooooof wooof wf woof woooof wooof wof wf wf, woof wof wooooooooooof

took an oath with yourself to find out what that marvellous painting
woof wf woof woof woooooof wf woof wof woof woof woooooooof woooooof

meant. Ever and anon a bright, but, alas, deceptive idea would dart you
wooof. Woof wof woof w woooof, wof, woof, wooooooof woof wooof woof wof

through.--It's the Black Sea in a midnight gale.--It's the unnatural
wooooof.--Wf'w wof Wooof Wof wf w woooooof woof.--Wf'w wof wooooooof

combat of the four primal elements.--It's a blasted heath.--It's a
woooof wf wof woof woooof woooooof.--Wf'w w wooooof wooof.--Wf'w w

Hyperborean winter scene.--It's the breaking-up of the icebound stream
Wooooooooof woooof wooof.--Wf'w wof woooooof-wf wf wof woooooof woooof

of Time. But at last all these fancies yielded to that one portentous
wf Woof. Wof wf woof wof wooof wooooof wooooof wf woof wof woooooooof

something in the picture's midst. THAT once found out, and all the rest
wooooooof wf wof wooooof'w wooof. WOOF woof wooof wof, wof wof wof woof

were plain. But stop; does it not bear a faint resemblance to a gigantic
woof wooof. Wof woof; woof wf wof woof w wooof wooooooooof wf w woooooof

fish? even the great leviathan himself?
woof? woof wof wooof wooooooof wooooof?




In fact, the artist's design seemed this: a final theory of my own,
Wf woof, wof woooof'w woooof woooof woof: w wooof woooof wf wf wof,

partly based upon the aggregated opinions of many aged persons with whom
woooof wooof woof wof woooooooof woooooof wf woof woof wooooof woof woof

I conversed upon the subject. The picture represents a Cape-Horner in a
W wooooooof woof wof wooooof. Wof wooooof woooooooof w Woof-Woooof wf w

great hurricane; the half-foundered ship weltering there with its three
wooof wooooooof; wof woof-wooooooof woof wooooooof wooof woof wof wooof

dismantled masts alone visible; and an exasperated whale, purposing to
woooooooof wooof wooof wooooof; wof wf wooooooooof wooof, wooooooof wf

spring clean over the craft, is in the enormous act of impaling himself
woooof wooof woof wof wooof, wf wf wof woooooof wof wf woooooof wooooof

upon the three mast-heads.
woof wof wooof woof-wooof.




The opposite wall of this entry was hung all over with a heathenish
Wof woooooof woof wf woof wooof wof woof wof woof woof w woooooooof

array of monstrous clubs and spears. Some were thickly set with
wooof wf wooooooof wooof wof woooof. Woof woof wooooof wof woof

glittering teeth resembling ivory saws; others were tufted with knots of
woooooooof wooof woooooooof wooof woof; woooof woof woooof woof wooof wf

human hair; and one was sickle-shaped, with a vast handle sweeping round
wooof woof; wof wof wof woooof-woooof, woof w woof woooof woooooof wooof

like the segment made in the new-mown grass by a long-armed mower. You
woof wof wooooof woof wf wof wof-woof wooof wf w woof-wooof wooof. Wof

shuddered as you gazed, and wondered what monstrous cannibal and savage
wooooooof wf wof wooof, wof woooooof woof wooooooof woooooof wof woooof

could ever have gone a death-harvesting with such a hacking, horrifying
wooof woof woof woof w wooof-woooooooof woof woof w wooooof, woooooooof

implement. Mixed with these were rusty old whaling lances and harpoons
wooooooof. Wooof woof wooof woof wooof wof wooooof woooof wof woooooof

all broken and deformed. Some were storied weapons. With this once long
wof woooof wof woooooof. Woof woof wooooof wooooof. Woof woof woof woof

lance, now wildly elbowed, fifty years ago did Nathan Swain kill fifteen
wooof, wof woooof wooooof, wooof wooof wof wof Woooof Wooof woof wooooof

whales between a sunrise and a sunset. And that harpoon--so like a
woooof wooooof w wooooof wof w woooof. Wof woof wooooof--wf woof w

corkscrew now--was flung in Javan seas, and run away with by a whale,
wooooooof wof--wof wooof wf Wooof woof, wof wof woof woof wf w wooof,

years afterwards slain off the Cape of Blanco. The original iron entered
wooof woooooooof wooof wof wof Woof wf Woooof. Wof woooooof woof wooooof

nigh the tail, and, like a restless needle sojourning in the body of a
woof wof woof, wof, woof w woooooof woooof woooooooof wf wof woof wf w

man, travelled full forty feet, and at last was found imbedded in the
wof, wooooooof woof wooof woof, wof wf woof wof wooof woooooof wf wof

hump.
woof.




Crossing this dusky entry, and on through yon low-arched way--cut
Woooooof woof wooof wooof, wof wf wooooof wof wof-woooof wof--wof

through what in old times must have been a great central chimney with
wooooof woof wf wof wooof woof woof woof w wooof wooooof wooooof woof

fireplaces all round--you enter the public room. A still duskier place
woooooooof wof wooof--wof wooof wof woooof woof. W wooof wooooof wooof

is this, with such low ponderous beams above, and such old wrinkled
wf woof, woof woof wof wooooooof wooof wooof, wof woof wof woooooof

planks beneath, that you would almost fancy you trod some old craft's
woooof wooooof, woof wof wooof woooof wooof wof woof woof wof wooof'w

cockpits, especially of such a howling night, when this corner-anchored
woooooof, woooooooof wf woof w wooooof wooof, woof woof woooof-woooooof

old ark rocked so furiously. On one side stood a long, low, shelf-like
wof wof woooof wf wooooooof. Wf wof woof wooof w woof, wof, wooof-woof

table covered with cracked glass cases, filled with dusty rarities
wooof wooooof woof wooooof wooof wooof, woooof woof wooof woooooof

gathered from this wide world's remotest nooks. Projecting from the
woooooof woof woof woof wooof'w woooooof wooof. Woooooooof woof wof

further angle of the room stands a dark-looking den--the bar--a rude
wooooof wooof wf wof woof woooof w woof-wooooof wof--wof wof--w woof

attempt at a right whale's head. Be that how it may, there stands the
wooooof wf w wooof wooof'w woof. Wf woof wof wf wof, wooof woooof wof

vast arched bone of the whale's jaw, so wide, a coach might almost drive
woof woooof woof wf wof wooof'w wof, wf woof, w wooof wooof woooof wooof

beneath it. Within are shabby shelves, ranged round with old decanters,
wooooof wf. Woooof wof woooof wooooof, woooof wooof woof wof wooooooof,

bottles, flasks; and in those jaws of swift destruction, like another
wooooof, woooof; wof wf wooof woof wf wooof wooooooooof, woof wooooof

cursed Jonah (by which name indeed they called him), bustles a little
woooof Wooof (wf wooof woof woooof woof woooof wof), wooooof w woooof

withered old man, who, for their money, dearly sells the sailors
woooooof wof wof, wof, wof wooof wooof, woooof wooof wof wooooof

deliriums and death.
wooooooof wof wooof.




Abominable are the tumblers into which he pours his poison. Though
Woooooooof wof wof woooooof woof wooof wf wooof wof woooof. Woooof

true cylinders without--within, the villanous green goggling glasses
woof wooooooof wooooof--woooof, wof wooooooof wooof woooooof wooooof

deceitfully tapered downwards to a cheating bottom. Parallel meridians
wooooooooof wooooof wooooooof wf w woooooof woooof. Woooooof wooooooof

rudely pecked into the glass, surround these footpads' goblets. Fill to
woooof woooof woof wof wooof, woooooof wooof woooooof' wooooof. Woof wf

THIS mark, and your charge is but a penny; to THIS a penny more; and so
WOOF woof, wof woof woooof wf wof w wooof; wf WOOF w wooof woof; wof wf

on to the full glass--the Cape Horn measure, which you may gulp down for
wf wf wof woof wooof--wof Woof Woof wooooof, wooof wof wof woof woof wof

a shilling.
w woooooof.




Upon entering the place I found a number of young seamen gathered about
Woof woooooof wof wooof W wooof w woooof wf wooof woooof woooooof wooof

a table, examining by a dim light divers specimens of SKRIMSHANDER. I
w wooof, wooooooof wf w wof wooof woooof wooooooof wf WOOOOOOOOOOF. W

sought the landlord, and telling him I desired to be accommodated with a
woooof wof woooooof, wof wooooof wof W wooooof wf wf woooooooooof woof w

room, received for answer that his house was full--not a bed unoccupied.
woof, woooooof wof woooof woof wof wooof wof woof--wof w wof woooooooof.

"But avast," he added, tapping his forehead, "you haint no objections
"Wof wooof," wf wooof, wooooof wof woooooof, "wof wooof wf woooooooof

to sharing a harpooneer's blanket, have ye? I s'pose you are goin'
wf wooooof w woooooooof'w wooooof, woof wf? W w'woof wof wof woof'

a-whalin', so you'd better get used to that sort of thing."
w-woooof', wf wof'w woooof wof woof wf woof woof wf wooof."




I told him that I never liked to sleep two in a bed; that if I should
W woof wof woof W wooof wooof wf wooof wof wf w wof; woof wf W woooof

ever do so, it would depend upon who the harpooneer might be, and
woof wf wf, wf wooof woooof woof wof wof woooooooof wooof wf, wof

that if he (the landlord) really had no other place for me, and the
woof wf wf (wof woooooof) woooof wof wf wooof wooof wof wf, wof wof

harpooneer was not decidedly objectionable, why rather than wander
woooooooof wof wof wooooooof wooooooooooof, wof woooof woof woooof

further about a strange town on so bitter a night, I would put up with
wooooof wooof w wooooof woof wf wf woooof w wooof, W wooof wof wf woof

the half of any decent man's blanket.
wof woof wf wof woooof wof'w wooooof.




"I thought so. All right; take a seat. Supper?--you want supper?
"W wooooof wf. Wof wooof; woof w woof. Woooof?--wof woof woooof?

Supper'll be ready directly."
Woooof'wf wf wooof woooooof."




I sat down on an old wooden settle, carved all over like a bench on the
W wof woof wf wf wof woooof woooof, woooof wof woof woof w wooof wf wof

Battery. At one end a ruminating tar was still further adorning it with
Wooooof. Wf wof wof w woooooooof wof wof wooof wooooof woooooof wf woof

his jack-knife, stooping over and diligently working away at the space
wof woof-wooof, woooooof woof wof woooooooof wooooof woof wf wof wooof

between his legs. He was trying his hand at a ship under full sail, but
wooooof wof woof. Wf wof woooof wof woof wf w woof wooof woof woof, wof

he didn't make much headway, I thought.
wf woof'w woof woof wooooof, W wooooof.




At last some four or five of us were summoned to our meal in an
Wf woof woof woof wf woof wf wf woof woooooof wf wof woof wf wf

adjoining room. It was cold as Iceland--no fire at all--the landlord
wooooooof woof. Wf wof woof wf Wooooof--wf woof wf wof--wof woooooof

said he couldn't afford it. Nothing but two dismal tallow candles, each
woof wf woooof'w woooof wf. Wooooof wof wof woooof woooof wooooof, woof

in a winding sheet. We were fain to button up our monkey jackets, and
wf w wooooof wooof. Wf woof woof wf woooof wf wof woooof wooooof, wof

hold to our lips cups of scalding tea with our half frozen fingers. But
woof wf wof woof woof wf woooooof wof woof wof woof woooof wooooof. Wof

the fare was of the most substantial kind--not only meat and potatoes,
wof woof wof wf wof woof wooooooooof woof--wof woof woof wof woooooof,

but dumplings; good heavens! dumplings for supper! One young fellow in
wof wooooooof; woof wooooof! wooooooof wof woooof! Wof wooof woooof wf

a green box coat, addressed himself to these dumplings in a most direful
w wooof wof woof, wooooooof wooooof wf wooof wooooooof wf w woof wooooof

manner.
woooof.




"My boy," said the landlord, "you'll have the nightmare to a dead
"Wf wof," woof wof woooooof, "wof'wf woof wof wooooooof wf w woof

sartainty."
wooooooof."




"Landlord," I whispered, "that aint the harpooneer is it?"
"Woooooof," W wooooooof, "woof woof wof woooooooof wf wf?"




"Oh, no," said he, looking a sort of diabolically funny, "the harpooneer
"Wf, wf," woof wf, wooooof w woof wf woooooooooof wooof, "wof woooooooof

is a dark complexioned chap. He never eats dumplings, he don't--he eats
wf w woof woooooooooof woof. Wf wooof woof wooooooof, wf wof'w--wf woof

nothing but steaks, and he likes 'em rare."
wooooof wof woooof, wof wf wooof 'wf woof."




"The devil he does," says I. "Where is that harpooneer? Is he here?"
"Wof wooof wf woof," woof W. "Wooof wf woof woooooooof? Wf wf woof?"




"He'll be here afore long," was the answer.
"Wf'wf wf woof wooof woof," wof wof woooof.




I could not help it, but I began to feel suspicious of this "dark
W wooof wof woof wf, wof W wooof wf woof woooooooof wf woof "woof

complexioned" harpooneer. At any rate, I made up my mind that if it so
woooooooooof" woooooooof. Wf wof woof, W woof wf wf woof woof wf wf wf

turned out that we should sleep together, he must undress and get into
woooof wof woof wf woooof wooof woooooof, wf woof wooooof wof wof woof

bed before I did.
wof woooof W wof.




Supper over, the company went back to the bar-room, when, knowing not
Woooof woof, wof wooooof woof woof wf wof wof-woof, woof, wooooof wof

what else to do with myself, I resolved to spend the rest of the evening
woof woof wf wf woof woooof, W woooooof wf wooof wof woof wf wof wooooof

as a looker on.
wf w woooof wf.




Presently a rioting noise was heard without. Starting up, the landlord
Wooooooof w wooooof wooof wof wooof wooooof. Woooooof wf, wof woooooof

cried, "That's the Grampus's crew. I seed her reported in the offing
wooof, "Woof'w wof Wooooof'w woof. W woof wof woooooof wf wof woooof

this morning; a three years' voyage, and a full ship. Hurrah, boys; now
woof wooooof; w wooof wooof' woooof, wof w woof woof. Woooof, woof; wof

we'll have the latest news from the Feegees."
wf'wf woof wof woooof woof woof wof Wooooof."




A tramping of sea boots was heard in the entry; the door was flung open,
W woooooof wf wof wooof wof wooof wf wof wooof; wof woof wof wooof woof,

and in rolled a wild set of mariners enough. Enveloped in their shaggy
wof wf woooof w woof wof wf woooooof woooof. Wooooooof wf wooof woooof

watch coats, and with their heads muffled in woollen comforters, all
wooof wooof, wof woof wooof wooof wooooof wf wooooof woooooooof, wof

bedarned and ragged, and their beards stiff with icicles, they seemed an
woooooof wof woooof, wof wooof woooof wooof woof wooooof, woof woooof wf

eruption of bears from Labrador. They had just landed from their boat,
woooooof wf wooof woof Woooooof. Woof wof woof woooof woof wooof woof,

and this was the first house they entered. No wonder, then, that they
wof woof wof wof wooof wooof woof wooooof. Wf woooof, woof, woof woof

made a straight wake for the whale's mouth--the bar--when the wrinkled
woof w woooooof woof wof wof wooof'w wooof--wof wof--woof wof woooooof

little old Jonah, there officiating, soon poured them out brimmers all
woooof wof Wooof, wooof wooooooooof, woof woooof woof wof woooooof wof

round. One complained of a bad cold in his head, upon which Jonah
wooof. Wof woooooooof wf w wof woof wf wof woof, woof wooof Wooof

mixed him a pitch-like potion of gin and molasses, which he swore was a
wooof wof w wooof-woof woooof wf wof wof woooooof, wooof wf wooof wof w

sovereign cure for all colds and catarrhs whatsoever, never mind of how
wooooooof woof wof wof wooof wof woooooof woooooooof, wooof woof wf wof

long standing, or whether caught off the coast of Labrador, or on the
woof woooooof, wf wooooof woooof wof wof wooof wf Woooooof, wf wf wof

weather side of an ice-island.
wooooof woof wf wf wof-woooof.




The liquor soon mounted into their heads, as it generally does even
Wof woooof woof wooooof woof wooof wooof, wf wf wooooooof woof woof

with the arrantest topers newly landed from sea, and they began capering
woof wof wooooooof woooof wooof woooof woof wof, wof woof wooof woooooof

about most obstreperously.
wooof woof woooooooooooof.




I observed, however, that one of them held somewhat aloof, and though
W woooooof, wooooof, woof wof wf woof woof woooooof wooof, wof woooof

he seemed desirous not to spoil the hilarity of his shipmates by his own
wf woooof woooooof wof wf wooof wof woooooof wf wof wooooooof wf wof wof

sober face, yet upon the whole he refrained from making as much noise
wooof woof, wof woof wof wooof wf wooooooof woof woooof wf woof wooof

as the rest. This man interested me at once; and since the sea-gods
wf wof woof. Woof wof woooooooof wf wf woof; wof wooof wof wof-woof

had ordained that he should soon become my shipmate (though but a
wof woooooof woof wf woooof woof woooof wf woooooof (woooof wof w

sleeping-partner one, so far as this narrative is concerned), I will
woooooof-wooooof wof, wf wof wf woof wooooooof wf wooooooof), W woof

here venture upon a little description of him. He stood full six feet
woof wooooof woof w woooof wooooooooof wf wof. Wf wooof woof wof woof

in height, with noble shoulders, and a chest like a coffer-dam. I have
wf woooof, woof wooof wooooooof, wof w wooof woof w woooof-wof. W woof

seldom seen such brawn in a man. His face was deeply brown and burnt,
woooof woof woof wooof wf w wof. Wof woof wof woooof wooof wof wooof,

making his white teeth dazzling by the contrast; while in the deep
woooof wof wooof wooof woooooof wf wof woooooof; wooof wf wof woof

shadows of his eyes floated some reminiscences that did not seem to give
wooooof wf wof woof wooooof woof wooooooooooof woof wof wof woof wf woof

him much joy. His voice at once announced that he was a Southerner,
wof woof wof. Wof wooof wf woof wooooooof woof wf wof w Woooooooof,

and from his fine stature, I thought he must be one of those tall
wof woof wof woof wooooof, W wooooof wf woof wf wof wf wooof woof

mountaineers from the Alleghanian Ridge in Virginia. When the revelry
woooooooooof woof wof Wooooooooof Wooof wf Woooooof. Woof wof wooooof

of his companions had mounted to its height, this man slipped away
wf wof woooooooof wof wooooof wf wof woooof, woof wof wooooof woof

unobserved, and I saw no more of him till he became my comrade on the
woooooooof, wof W wof wf woof wf wof woof wf woooof wf wooooof wf wof

sea. In a few minutes, however, he was missed by his shipmates, and
wof. Wf w wof wooooof, wooooof, wf wof woooof wf wof wooooooof, wof

being, it seems, for some reason a huge favourite with them, they raised
wooof, wf wooof, wof woof woooof w woof wooooooof woof woof, woof woooof

a cry of "Bulkington! Bulkington! where's Bulkington?" and darted out of
w wof wf "Woooooooof! Woooooooof! wooof'w Woooooooof?" wof woooof wof wf

the house in pursuit of him.
wof wooof wf wooooof wf wof.




It was now about nine o'clock, and the room seeming almost
Wf wof wof wooof woof w'wooof, wof wof woof wooooof woooof

supernaturally quiet after these orgies, I began to congratulate myself
woooooooooooof wooof wooof wooof woooof, W wooof wf woooooooooof woooof

upon a little plan that had occurred to me just previous to the entrance
woof w woooof woof woof wof woooooof wf wf woof woooooof wf wof woooooof

of the seamen.
wf wof woooof.




No man prefers to sleep two in a bed. In fact, you would a good deal
Wf wof wooooof wf wooof wof wf w wof. Wf woof, wof wooof w woof woof

rather not sleep with your own brother. I don't know how it is, but
woooof wof wooof woof woof wof wooooof. W wof'w woof wof wf wf, wof

people like to be private when they are sleeping. And when it comes to
woooof woof wf wf wooooof woof woof wof woooooof. Wof woof wf wooof wf

sleeping with an unknown stranger, in a strange inn, in a strange
woooooof woof wf wooooof woooooof, wf w wooooof wof, wf w wooooof

town, and that stranger a harpooneer, then your objections indefinitely
woof, wof woof woooooof w woooooooof, woof woof woooooooof woooooooooof

multiply. Nor was there any earthly reason why I as a sailor should
woooooof. Wof wof wooof wof wooooof woooof wof W wf w woooof woooof

sleep two in a bed, more than anybody else; for sailors no more sleep
wooof wof wf w wof, woof woof wooooof woof; wof wooooof wf woof wooof

two in a bed at sea, than bachelor Kings do ashore. To be sure they
wof wf w wof wf wof, woof woooooof Wooof wf woooof. Wf wf woof woof

all sleep together in one apartment, but you have your own hammock, and
wof wooof woooooof wf wof wooooooof, wof wof woof woof wof wooooof, wof

cover yourself with your own blanket, and sleep in your own skin.
wooof woooooof woof woof wof wooooof, wof wooof wf woof wof woof.




The more I pondered over this harpooneer, the more I abominated the
Wof woof W woooooof woof woof woooooooof, wof woof W woooooooof wof

thought of sleeping with him. It was fair to presume that being a
wooooof wf woooooof woof wof. Wf wof woof wf wooooof woof wooof w

harpooneer, his linen or woollen, as the case might be, would not be of
woooooooof, wof wooof wf wooooof, wf wof woof wooof wf, wooof wof wf wf

the tidiest, certainly none of the finest. I began to twitch all over.
wof wooooof, wooooooof woof wf wof woooof. W wooof wf woooof wof woof.

Besides, it was getting late, and my decent harpooneer ought to be
Wooooof, wf wof wooooof woof, wof wf woooof woooooooof wooof wf wf

home and going bedwards. Suppose now, he should tumble in upon me at
woof wof wooof woooooof. Wooooof wof, wf woooof woooof wf woof wf wf

midnight--how could I tell from what vile hole he had been coming?
woooooof--wof wooof W woof woof woof woof woof wf wof woof woooof?




"Landlord! I've changed my mind about that harpooneer.--I shan't sleep
"Woooooof! W'wf wooooof wf woof wooof woof woooooooof.--W woof'w wooof

with him. I'll try the bench here."
woof wof. W'wf wof wof wooof woof."




"Just as you please; I'm sorry I cant spare ye a tablecloth for a
"Woof wf wof woooof; W'w wooof W woof wooof wf w woooooooof wof w

mattress, and it's a plaguy rough board here"--feeling of the knots and
woooooof, wof wf'w w woooof wooof wooof woof"--wooooof wf wof wooof wof

notches. "But wait a bit, Skrimshander; I've got a carpenter's plane
wooooof. "Wof woof w wof, Woooooooooof; W'wf wof w wooooooof'w wooof

there in the bar--wait, I say, and I'll make ye snug enough." So saying
wooof wf wof wof--woof, W wof, wof W'wf woof wf woof woooof." Wf woooof

he procured the plane; and with his old silk handkerchief first dusting
wf woooooof wof wooof; wof woof wof wof woof woooooooooof wooof wooooof

the bench, vigorously set to planing away at my bed, the while grinning
wof wooof, woooooooof wof wf wooooof woof wf wf wof, wof wooof woooooof

like an ape. The shavings flew right and left; till at last the
woof wf wof. Wof woooooof woof wooof wof woof; woof wf woof wof

plane-iron came bump against an indestructible knot. The landlord was
wooof-woof woof woof wooooof wf woooooooooooof woof. Wof woooooof wof

near spraining his wrist, and I told him for heaven's sake to quit--the
woof wooooooof wof wooof, wof W woof wof wof woooof'w woof wf woof--wof

bed was soft enough to suit me, and I did not know how all the planing
wof wof woof woooof wf woof wf, wof W wof wof woof wof wof wof wooooof

in the world could make eider down of a pine plank. So gathering up the
wf wof wooof wooof woof wooof woof wf w woof wooof. Wf wooooooof wf wof

shavings with another grin, and throwing them into the great stove in
woooooof woof wooooof woof, wof woooooof woof woof wof wooof wooof wf

the middle of the room, he went about his business, and left me in a
wof woooof wf wof woof, wf woof wooof wof woooooof, wof woof wf wf w

brown study.
wooof wooof.




I now took the measure of the bench, and found that it was a foot too
W wof woof wof wooooof wf wof wooof, wof wooof woof wf wof w woof wof

short; but that could be mended with a chair. But it was a foot too
wooof; wof woof wooof wf woooof woof w wooof. Wof wf wof w woof wof

narrow, and the other bench in the room was about four inches higher
woooof, wof wof wooof wooof wf wof woof wof wooof woof woooof woooof

than the planed one--so there was no yoking them. I then placed the
woof wof woooof wof--wf wooof wof wf woooof woof. W woof woooof wof

first bench lengthwise along the only clear space against the wall,
wooof wooof woooooooof wooof wof woof wooof wooof wooooof wof woof,

leaving a little interval between, for my back to settle down in. But I
wooooof w woooof woooooof wooooof, wof wf woof wf woooof woof wf. Wof W

soon found that there came such a draught of cold air over me from under
woof wooof woof wooof woof woof w wooooof wf woof wof woof wf woof wooof

the sill of the window, that this plan would never do at all, especially
wof woof wf wof woooof, woof woof woof wooof wooof wf wf wof, woooooooof

as another current from the rickety door met the one from the window,
wf wooooof wooooof woof wof wooooof woof wof wof wof woof wof woooof,

and both together formed a series of small whirlwinds in the immediate
wof woof woooooof woooof w woooof wf wooof woooooooof wf wof wooooooof

vicinity of the spot where I had thought to spend the night.
woooooof wf wof woof wooof W wof wooooof wf wooof wof wooof.




The devil fetch that harpooneer, thought I, but stop, couldn't I steal
Wof wooof wooof woof woooooooof, wooooof W, wof woof, woooof'w W wooof

a march on him--bolt his door inside, and jump into his bed, not to be
w wooof wf wof--woof wof woof woooof, wof woof woof wof wof, wof wf wf

wakened by the most violent knockings? It seemed no bad idea; but upon
wooooof wf wof woof wooooof wooooooof? Wf woooof wf wof woof; wof woof

second thoughts I dismissed it. For who could tell but what the next
woooof woooooof W wooooooof wf. Wof wof wooof woof wof woof wof woof

morning, so soon as I popped out of the room, the harpooneer might be
wooooof, wf woof wf W woooof wof wf wof woof, wof woooooooof wooof wf

standing in the entry, all ready to knock me down!
woooooof wf wof wooof, wof wooof wf wooof wf woof!




Still, looking round me again, and seeing no possible chance of spending
Wooof, wooooof wooof wf wooof, wof woooof wf woooooof woooof wf woooooof

a sufferable night unless in some other person's bed, I began to think
w woooooooof wooof woooof wf woof wooof woooof'w wof, W wooof wf wooof

that after all I might be cherishing unwarrantable prejudices against
woof wooof wof W wooof wf woooooooof wooooooooooof woooooooof wooooof

this unknown harpooneer. Thinks I, I'll wait awhile; he must be dropping
woof wooooof woooooooof. Woooof W, W'wf woof woooof; wf woof wf woooooof

in before long. I'll have a good look at him then, and perhaps we may
wf woooof woof. W'wf woof w woof woof wf wof woof, wof wooooof wf wof

become jolly good bedfellows after all--there's no telling.
woooof wooof woof woooooooof wooof wof--wooof'w wf wooooof.




But though the other boarders kept coming in by ones, twos, and threes,
Wof woooof wof wooof woooooof woof woooof wf wf woof, woof, wof woooof,

and going to bed, yet no sign of my harpooneer.
wof wooof wf wof, wof wf woof wf wf woooooooof.




"Landlord!" said I, "what sort of a chap is he--does he always keep such
"Woooooof!" woof W, "woof woof wf w woof wf wf--woof wf woooof woof woof

late hours?" It was now hard upon twelve o'clock.
woof wooof?" Wf wof wof woof woof woooof w'wooof.




The landlord chuckled again with his lean chuckle, and seemed to
Wof woooooof woooooof wooof woof wof woof wooooof, wof woooof wf

be mightily tickled at something beyond my comprehension. "No," he
wf woooooof wooooof wf wooooooof woooof wf wooooooooooof. "Wf," wf

answered, "generally he's an early bird--airley to bed and airley to
woooooof, "wooooooof wf'w wf wooof woof--woooof wf wof wof woooof wf

rise--yes, he's the bird what catches the worm. But to-night he went out
woof--wof, wf'w wof woof woof wooooof wof woof. Wof wf-wooof wf woof wof

a peddling, you see, and I don't see what on airth keeps him so late,
w woooooof, wof wof, wof W wof'w wof woof wf wooof wooof wof wf woof,

unless, may be, he can't sell his head."
woooof, wof wf, wf wof'w woof wof woof."




"Can't sell his head?--What sort of a bamboozingly story is this you
"Wof'w woof wof woof?--Woof woof wf w woooooooooof wooof wf woof wof

are telling me?" getting into a towering rage. "Do you pretend to say,
wof wooooof wf?" wooooof woof w woooooof woof. "Wf wof wooooof wf wof,

landlord, that this harpooneer is actually engaged this blessed Saturday
woooooof, woof woof woooooooof wf woooooof wooooof woof wooooof Woooooof

night, or rather Sunday morning, in peddling his head around this town?"
wooof, wf woooof Woooof wooooof, wf woooooof wof woof woooof woof woof?"




"That's precisely it," said the landlord, "and I told him he couldn't
"Woof'w wooooooof wf," woof wof woooooof, "wof W woof wof wf woooof'w

sell it here, the market's overstocked."
woof wf woof, wof woooof'w wooooooooof."




"With what?" shouted I.
"Woof woof?" wooooof W.




"With heads to be sure; ain't there too many heads in the world?"
"Woof wooof wf wf woof; wof'w wooof wof woof wooof wf wof wooof?"




"I tell you what it is, landlord," said I quite calmly, "you'd better
"W woof wof woof wf wf, woooooof," woof W wooof woooof, "wof'w woooof

stop spinning that yarn to me--I'm not green."
woof woooooof woof woof wf wf--W'w wof wooof."




"May be not," taking out a stick and whittling a toothpick, "but I
"Wof wf wof," woooof wof w wooof wof wooooooof w wooooooof, "wof W

rayther guess you'll be done BROWN if that ere harpooneer hears you a
wooooof wooof wof'wf wf woof WOOOF wf woof wof woooooooof wooof wof w

slanderin' his head."
wooooooof' wof woof."




"I'll break it for him," said I, now flying into a passion again at this
"W'wf wooof wf wof wof," woof W, wof woooof woof w wooooof wooof wf woof

unaccountable farrago of the landlord's.
wooooooooooof wooooof wf wof woooooof'w.




"It's broke a'ready," said he.
"Wf'w wooof w'wooof," woof wf.




"Broke," said I--"BROKE, do you mean?"
"Wooof," woof W--"WOOOF, wf wof woof?"




"Sartain, and that's the very reason he can't sell it, I guess."
"Wooooof, wof woof'w wof woof woooof wf wof'w woof wf, W wooof."




"Landlord," said I, going up to him as cool as Mt. Hecla in a
"Woooooof," woof W, wooof wf wf wof wf woof wf Wf. Wooof wf w

snow-storm--"landlord, stop whittling. You and I must understand one
woof-wooof--"woooooof, woof wooooooof. Wof wof W woof woooooooof wof

another, and that too without delay. I come to your house and want a
wooooof, wof woof wof wooooof wooof. W woof wf woof wooof wof woof w

bed; you tell me you can only give me half a one; that the other half
wof; wof woof wf wof wof woof woof wf woof w wof; woof wof wooof woof

belongs to a certain harpooneer. And about this harpooneer, whom I
wooooof wf w wooooof woooooooof. Wof wooof woof woooooooof, woof W

have not yet seen, you persist in telling me the most mystifying and
woof wof wof woof, wof wooooof wf wooooof wf wof woof woooooooof wof

exasperating stories tending to beget in me an uncomfortable feeling
woooooooooof wooooof wooooof wf wooof wf wf wf wooooooooooof wooooof

towards the man whom you design for my bedfellow--a sort of connexion,
wooooof wof wof woof wof woooof wof wf wooooooof--w woof wf wooooooof,

landlord, which is an intimate and confidential one in the highest
woooooof, wooof wf wf woooooof wof woooooooooof wof wf wof wooooof

degree. I now demand of you to speak out and tell me who and what this
woooof. W wof woooof wf wof wf wooof wof wof woof wf wof wof woof woof

harpooneer is, and whether I shall be in all respects safe to spend the
woooooooof wf, wof wooooof W wooof wf wf wof woooooof woof wf wooof wof

night with him. And in the first place, you will be so good as to unsay
wooof woof wof. Wof wf wof wooof wooof, wof woof wf wf woof wf wf wooof

that story about selling his head, which if true I take to be good
woof wooof wooof wooooof wof woof, wooof wf woof W woof wf wf woof

evidence that this harpooneer is stark mad, and I've no idea of sleeping
woooooof woof woof woooooooof wf wooof wof, wof W'wf wf woof wf woooooof

with a madman; and you, sir, YOU I mean, landlord, YOU, sir, by trying
woof w woooof; wof wof, wof, WOF W woof, woooooof, WOF, wof, wf woooof

to induce me to do so knowingly, would thereby render yourself liable to
wf woooof wf wf wf wf wooooooof, wooof wooooof woooof woooooof woooof wf

a criminal prosecution."
w woooooof wooooooooof."




"Wall," said the landlord, fetching a long breath, "that's a purty long
"Woof," woof wof woooooof, woooooof w woof woooof, "woof'w w wooof woof

sarmon for a chap that rips a little now and then. But be easy, be easy,
woooof wof w woof woof woof w woooof wof wof woof. Wof wf woof, wf woof,

this here harpooneer I have been tellin' you of has just arrived from
woof woof woooooooof W woof woof woooof' wof wf wof woof wooooof woof

the south seas, where he bought up a lot of 'balmed New Zealand heads
wof wooof woof, wooof wf woooof wf w wof wf 'woooof Wof Wooooof wooof

(great curios, you know), and he's sold all on 'em but one, and that one
(wooof woooof, wof woof), wof wf'w woof wof wf 'wf wof wof, wof woof wof

he's trying to sell to-night, cause to-morrow's Sunday, and it would not
wf'w woooof wf woof wf-wooof, wooof wf-woooof'w Woooof, wof wf wooof wof

do to be sellin' human heads about the streets when folks is goin' to
wf wf wf woooof' wooof wooof wooof wof wooooof woof wooof wf woof' wf

churches. He wanted to, last Sunday, but I stopped him just as he was
woooooof. Wf woooof wf, woof Woooof, wof W wooooof wof woof wf wf wof

goin' out of the door with four heads strung on a string, for all the
woof' wof wf wof woof woof woof wooof woooof wf w woooof, wof wof wof

airth like a string of inions."
wooof woof w woooof wf woooof."




This account cleared up the otherwise unaccountable mystery, and showed
Woof wooooof wooooof wf wof wooooooof wooooooooooof wooooof, wof woooof

that the landlord, after all, had had no idea of fooling me--but at
woof wof woooooof, wooof wof, wof wof wf woof wf wooooof wf--wof wf

the same time what could I think of a harpooneer who stayed out of a
wof woof woof woof wooof W wooof wf w woooooooof wof woooof wof wf w

Saturday night clean into the holy Sabbath, engaged in such a cannibal
Woooooof wooof wooof woof wof woof Wooooof, wooooof wf woof w woooooof

business as selling the heads of dead idolators?
woooooof wf wooooof wof wooof wf woof wooooooof?




"Depend upon it, landlord, that harpooneer is a dangerous man."
"Woooof woof wf, woooooof, woof woooooooof wf w wooooooof wof."




"He pays reg'lar," was the rejoinder. "But come, it's getting dreadful
"Wf woof wof'wof," wof wof wooooooof. "Wof woof, wf'w wooooof woooooof

late, you had better be turning flukes--it's a nice bed; Sal and me
woof, wof wof woooof wf wooooof woooof--wf'w w woof wof; Wof wof wf

slept in that ere bed the night we were spliced. There's plenty of room
wooof wf woof wof wof wof wooof wf woof wooooof. Wooof'w woooof wf woof

for two to kick about in that bed; it's an almighty big bed that. Why,
wof wof wf woof wooof wf woof wof; wf'w wf woooooof wof wof woof. Wof,

afore we give it up, Sal used to put our Sam and little Johnny in the
wooof wf woof wf wf, Wof woof wf wof wof Wof wof woooof Woooof wf wof

foot of it. But I got a dreaming and sprawling about one night, and
woof wf wf. Wof W wof w woooooof wof wooooooof wooof wof wooof, wof

somehow, Sam got pitched on the floor, and came near breaking his arm.
wooooof, Wof wof wooooof wf wof wooof, wof woof woof woooooof wof wof.

Arter that, Sal said it wouldn't do. Come along here, I'll give ye a
Wooof woof, Wof woof wf woooof'w wf. Woof wooof woof, W'wf woof wf w

glim in a jiffy;" and so saying he lighted a candle and held it towards
woof wf w wooof;" wof wf woooof wf wooooof w woooof wof woof wf wooooof

me, offering to lead the way. But I stood irresolute; when looking at a
wf, woooooof wf woof wof wof. Wof W wooof woooooooof; woof wooooof wf w

clock in the corner, he exclaimed "I vum it's Sunday--you won't see that
wooof wf wof woooof, wf wooooooof "W wof wf'w Woooof--wof wof'w wof woof

harpooneer to-night; he's come to anchor somewhere--come along then; DO
woooooooof wf-wooof; wf'w woof wf woooof wooooooof--woof wooof woof; WF

come; WON'T ye come?"
woof; WOF'W wf woof?"




I considered the matter a moment, and then up stairs we went, and I was
W woooooooof wof woooof w woooof, wof woof wf woooof wf woof, wof W wof

ushered into a small room, cold as a clam, and furnished, sure enough,
wooooof woof w wooof woof, woof wf w woof, wof wooooooof, woof woooof,

with a prodigious bed, almost big enough indeed for any four harpooneers
woof w woooooooof wof, woooof wof woooof woooof wof wof woof wooooooooof

to sleep abreast.
wf wooof wooooof.




"There," said the landlord, placing the candle on a crazy old sea chest
"Wooof," woof wof woooooof, wooooof wof woooof wf w wooof wof wof wooof

that did double duty as a wash-stand and centre table; "there, make
woof wof woooof woof wf w woof-wooof wof woooof wooof; "wooof, woof

yourself comfortable now, and good night to ye." I turned round from
woooooof wooooooooof wof, wof woof wooof wf wf." W woooof wooof woof

eyeing the bed, but he had disappeared.
woooof wof wof, wof wf wof wooooooooof.




Folding back the counterpane, I stooped over the bed. Though none of the
Wooooof woof wof wooooooooof, W wooooof woof wof wof. Woooof woof wf wof

most elegant, it yet stood the scrutiny tolerably well. I then glanced
woof wooooof, wf wof wooof wof woooooof wooooooof woof. W woof wooooof

round the room; and besides the bedstead and centre table, could see
wooof wof woof; wof wooooof wof woooooof wof woooof wooof, wooof wof

no other furniture belonging to the place, but a rude shelf, the four
wf wooof wooooooof wooooooof wf wof wooof, wof w woof wooof, wof woof

walls, and a papered fireboard representing a man striking a whale. Of
wooof, wof w wooooof wooooooof woooooooooof w wof woooooof w wooof. Wf

things not properly belonging to the room, there was a hammock lashed
woooof wof woooooof wooooooof wf wof woof, wooof wof w wooooof woooof

up, and thrown upon the floor in one corner; also a large seaman's bag,
wf, wof woooof woof wof wooof wf wof woooof; woof w wooof woooof'w wof,

containing the harpooneer's wardrobe, no doubt in lieu of a land trunk.
woooooooof wof woooooooof'w woooooof, wf wooof wf woof wf w woof wooof.

Likewise, there was a parcel of outlandish bone fish hooks on the shelf
Woooooof, wooof wof w woooof wf woooooooof woof woof wooof wf wof wooof

over the fire-place, and a tall harpoon standing at the head of the bed.
woof wof woof-wooof, wof w woof wooooof woooooof wf wof woof wf wof wof.




But what is this on the chest? I took it up, and held it close to the
Wof woof wf woof wf wof wooof? W woof wf wf, wof woof wf wooof wf wof

light, and felt it, and smelt it, and tried every way possible to arrive
wooof, wof woof wf, wof wooof wf, wof wooof wooof wof woooooof wf woooof

at some satisfactory conclusion concerning it. I can compare it to
wf woof woooooooooof woooooooof woooooooof wf. W wof wooooof wf wf

nothing but a large door mat, ornamented at the edges with little
wooooof wof w wooof woof wof, woooooooof wf wof wooof woof woooof

tinkling tags something like the stained porcupine quills round an
woooooof woof wooooooof woof wof wooooof wooooooof woooof wooof wf

Indian moccasin. There was a hole or slit in the middle of this mat,
Woooof woooooof. Wooof wof w woof wf woof wf wof woooof wf woof wof,

as you see the same in South American ponchos. But could it be possible
wf wof wof wof woof wf Wooof Woooooof wooooof. Wof wooof wf wf woooooof

that any sober harpooneer would get into a door mat, and parade the
woof wof wooof woooooooof wooof wof woof w woof wof, wof woooof wof

streets of any Christian town in that sort of guise? I put it on, to try
wooooof wf wof Wooooooof woof wf woof woof wf wooof? W wof wf wf, wf wof

it, and it weighed me down like a hamper, being uncommonly shaggy and
wf, wof wf wooooof wf woof woof w woooof, wooof woooooooof woooof wof

thick, and I thought a little damp, as though this mysterious harpooneer
wooof, wof W wooooof w woooof woof, wf woooof woof woooooooof woooooooof

had been wearing it of a rainy day. I went up in it to a bit of glass
wof woof wooooof wf wf w wooof wof. W woof wf wf wf wf w wof wf wooof

stuck against the wall, and I never saw such a sight in my life. I tore
wooof wooooof wof woof, wof W wooof wof woof w wooof wf wf woof. W woof

myself out of it in such a hurry that I gave myself a kink in the neck.
woooof wof wf wf wf woof w wooof woof W woof woooof w woof wf wof woof.




I sat down on the side of the bed, and commenced thinking about this
W wof woof wf wof woof wf wof wof, wof wooooooof woooooof wooof woof

head-peddling harpooneer, and his door mat. After thinking some time on
woof-woooooof woooooooof, wof wof woof wof. Wooof woooooof woof woof wf

the bed-side, I got up and took off my monkey jacket, and then stood in
wof wof-woof, W wof wf wof woof wof wf woooof woooof, wof woof wooof wf

the middle of the room thinking. I then took off my coat, and thought
wof woooof wf wof woof woooooof. W woof woof wof wf woof, wof wooooof

a little more in my shirt sleeves. But beginning to feel very cold now,
w woooof woof wf wf wooof wooooof. Wof wooooooof wf woof woof woof wof,

half undressed as I was, and remembering what the landlord said about
woof wooooooof wf W wof, wof wooooooooof woof wof woooooof woof wooof

the harpooneer's not coming home at all that night, it being so very
wof woooooooof'w wof woooof woof wf wof woof wooof, wf wooof wf woof

late, I made no more ado, but jumped out of my pantaloons and boots, and
woof, W woof wf woof wof, wof woooof wof wf wf woooooooof wof wooof, wof

then blowing out the light tumbled into bed, and commended myself to the
woof wooooof wof wof wooof wooooof woof wof, wof wooooooof woooof wf wof

care of heaven.
woof wf woooof.




Whether that mattress was stuffed with corn-cobs or broken crockery,
Wooooof woof woooooof wof wooooof woof woof-woof wf woooof woooooof,

there is no telling, but I rolled about a good deal, and could not sleep
wooof wf wf wooooof, wof W woooof wooof w woof woof, wof wooof wof wooof

for a long time. At last I slid off into a light doze, and had pretty
wof w woof woof. Wf woof W woof wof woof w wooof woof, wof wof woooof

nearly made a good offing towards the land of Nod, when I heard a heavy
woooof woof w woof woooof wooooof wof woof wf Wof, woof W wooof w wooof

footfall in the passage, and saw a glimmer of light come into the room
woooooof wf wof wooooof, wof wof w wooooof wf wooof woof woof wof woof

from under the door.
woof wooof wof woof.




Lord save me, thinks I, that must be the harpooneer, the infernal
Woof woof wf, woooof W, woof woof wf wof woooooooof, wof woooooof

head-peddler. But I lay perfectly still, and resolved not to say a word
woof-wooooof. Wof W wof wooooooof wooof, wof woooooof wof wf wof w woof

till spoken to. Holding a light in one hand, and that identical New
woof woooof wf. Wooooof w wooof wf wof woof, wof woof wooooooof Wof

Zealand head in the other, the stranger entered the room, and without
Wooooof woof wf wof wooof, wof woooooof wooooof wof woof, wof wooooof

looking towards the bed, placed his candle a good way off from me on the
wooooof wooooof wof wof, woooof wof woooof w woof wof wof woof wf wf wof

floor in one corner, and then began working away at the knotted cords
wooof wf wof woooof, wof woof wooof wooooof woof wf wof wooooof wooof

of the large bag I before spoke of as being in the room. I was all
wf wof wooof wof W woooof wooof wf wf wooof wf wof woof. W wof wof

eagerness to see his face, but he kept it averted for some time while
wooooooof wf wof wof woof, wof wf woof wf wooooof wof woof woof wooof

employed in unlacing the bag's mouth. This accomplished, however, he
woooooof wf woooooof wof wof'w wooof. Woof woooooooooof, wooooof, wf

turned round--when, good heavens! what a sight! Such a face! It was of
woooof wooof--woof, woof wooooof! woof w wooof! Woof w woof! Wf wof wf

a dark, purplish, yellow colour, here and there stuck over with large
w woof, woooooof, woooof woooof, woof wof wooof wooof woof woof wooof

blackish looking squares. Yes, it's just as I thought, he's a terrible
woooooof wooooof wooooof. Wof, wf'w woof wf W wooooof, wf'w w woooooof

bedfellow; he's been in a fight, got dreadfully cut, and here he is,
wooooooof; wf'w woof wf w wooof, wof woooooooof wof, wof woof wf wf,

just from the surgeon. But at that moment he chanced to turn his face
woof woof wof wooooof. Wof wf woof woooof wf wooooof wf woof wof woof

so towards the light, that I plainly saw they could not be
wf wooooof wof wooof, woof W wooooof wof woof wooof wof wf

sticking-plasters at all, those black squares on his cheeks. They were
woooooof-woooooof wf wof, wooof wooof wooooof wf wof woooof. Woof woof

stains of some sort or other. At first I knew not what to make of this;
woooof wf woof woof wf wooof. Wf wooof W woof wof woof wf woof wf woof;

but soon an inkling of the truth occurred to me. I remembered a story of
wof woof wf wooooof wf wof wooof woooooof wf wf. W woooooooof w wooof wf

a white man--a whaleman too--who, falling among the cannibals, had been
w wooof wof--w woooooof wof--wof, wooooof wooof wof wooooooof, wof woof

tattooed by them. I concluded that this harpooneer, in the course of his
woooooof wf woof. W wooooooof woof woof woooooooof, wf wof woooof wf wof

distant voyages, must have met with a similar adventure. And what is it,
wooooof wooooof, woof woof wof woof w wooooof wooooooof. Wof woof wf wf,

thought I, after all! It's only his outside; a man can be honest in any
wooooof W, wooof wof! Wf'w woof wof wooooof; w wof wof wf woooof wf wof

sort of skin. But then, what to make of his unearthly complexion, that
woof wf woof. Wof woof, woof wf woof wf wof wooooooof woooooooof, woof

part of it, I mean, lying round about, and completely independent of the
woof wf wf, W woof, wooof wooof wooof, wof woooooooof wooooooooof wf wof

squares of tattooing. To be sure, it might be nothing but a good coat of
wooooof wf wooooooof. Wf wf woof, wf wooof wf wooooof wof w woof woof wf

tropical tanning; but I never heard of a hot sun's tanning a white man
woooooof wooooof; wof W wooof wooof wf w wof wof'w wooooof w wooof wof

into a purplish yellow one. However, I had never been in the South Seas;
woof w woooooof woooof wof. Wooooof, W wof wooof woof wf wof Wooof Woof;

and perhaps the sun there produced these extraordinary effects upon the
wof wooooof wof wof wooof woooooof wooof wooooooooooof wooooof woof wof

skin. Now, while all these ideas were passing through me like lightning,
woof. Wof, wooof wof wooof wooof woof wooooof wooooof wf woof wooooooof,

this harpooneer never noticed me at all. But, after some difficulty
woof woooooooof wooof wooooof wf wf wof. Wof, wooof woof woooooooof

having opened his bag, he commenced fumbling in it, and presently pulled
woooof woooof wof wof, wf wooooooof woooooof wf wf, wof wooooooof woooof

out a sort of tomahawk, and a seal-skin wallet with the hair on. Placing
wof w woof wf woooooof, wof w woof-woof woooof woof wof woof wf. Wooooof

these on the old chest in the middle of the room, he then took the New
wooof wf wof wof wooof wf wof woooof wf wof woof, wf woof woof wof Wof

Zealand head--a ghastly thing enough--and crammed it down into the bag.
Wooooof woof--w wooooof wooof woooof--wof wooooof wf woof woof wof wof.

He now took off his hat--a new beaver hat--when I came nigh singing out
Wf wof woof wof wof wof--w wof woooof wof--woof W woof woof wooooof wof

with fresh surprise. There was no hair on his head--none to speak of at
woof wooof woooooof. Wooof wof wf woof wf wof woof--woof wf wooof wf wf

least--nothing but a small scalp-knot twisted up on his forehead. His
wooof--wooooof wof w wooof wooof-woof wooooof wf wf wof woooooof. Wof

bald purplish head now looked for all the world like a mildewed skull.
woof woooooof woof wof woooof wof wof wof wooof woof w woooooof wooof.

Had not the stranger stood between me and the door, I would have bolted
Wof wof wof woooooof wooof wooooof wf wof wof woof, W wooof woof woooof

out of it quicker than ever I bolted a dinner.
wof wf wf wooooof woof woof W woooof w woooof.




Even as it was, I thought something of slipping out of the window, but
Woof wf wf wof, W wooooof wooooooof wf woooooof wof wf wof woooof, wof

it was the second floor back. I am no coward, but what to make of
wf wof wof woooof wooof woof. W wf wf woooof, wof woof wf woof wf

this head-peddling purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension.
woof woof-woooooof woooof woooof woooooooof woooof wf wooooooooooof.

Ignorance is the parent of fear, and being completely nonplussed and
Wooooooof wf wof woooof wf woof, wof wooof woooooooof woooooooof wof

confounded about the stranger, I confess I was now as much afraid of him
woooooooof wooof wof woooooof, W wooooof W wof wof wf woof woooof wf wof

as if it was the devil himself who had thus broken into my room at
wf wf wf wof wof wooof wooooof wof wof woof woooof woof wf woof wf

the dead of night. In fact, I was so afraid of him that I was not
wof woof wf wooof. Wf woof, W wof wf woooof wf wof woof W wof wof

game enough just then to address him, and demand a satisfactory answer
woof woooof woof woof wf wooooof wof, wof woooof w woooooooooof woooof

concerning what seemed inexplicable in him.
woooooooof woof woooof woooooooooof wf wof.




Meanwhile, he continued the business of undressing, and at last showed
Wooooooof, wf wooooooof wof woooooof wf woooooooof, wof wf woof woooof

his chest and arms. As I live, these covered parts of him were checkered
wof wooof wof woof. Wf W woof, wooof wooooof wooof wf wof woof wooooooof

with the same squares as his face; his back, too, was all over the same
woof wof woof wooooof wf wof woof; wof woof, wof, wof wof woof wof woof

dark squares; he seemed to have been in a Thirty Years' War, and just
woof wooooof; wf woooof wf woof woof wf w Woooof Wooof' Wof, wof woof

escaped from it with a sticking-plaster shirt. Still more, his very
wooooof woof wf woof w woooooof-wooooof wooof. Wooof woof, wof woof

legs were marked, as if a parcel of dark green frogs were running up
woof woof woooof, wf wf w woooof wf woof wooof wooof woof wooooof wf

the trunks of young palms. It was now quite plain that he must be some
wof woooof wf wooof wooof. Wf wof wof wooof wooof woof wf woof wf woof

abominable savage or other shipped aboard of a whaleman in the South
woooooooof woooof wf wooof wooooof woooof wf w woooooof wf wof Wooof

Seas, and so landed in this Christian country. I quaked to think of it.
Woof, wof wf woooof wf woof Wooooooof wooooof. W woooof wf wooof wf wf.

A peddler of heads too--perhaps the heads of his own brothers. He might
W wooooof wf wooof wof--wooooof wof wooof wf wof wof woooooof. Wf wooof

take a fancy to mine--heavens! look at that tomahawk!
woof w wooof wf woof--wooooof! woof wf woof woooooof!




But there was no time for shuddering, for now the savage went about
Wof wooof wof wf woof wof woooooooof, wof wof wof woooof woof wooof

something that completely fascinated my attention, and convinced me that
wooooooof woof woooooooof woooooooof wf wooooooof, wof wooooooof wf woof

he must indeed be a heathen. Going to his heavy grego, or wrapall, or
wf woof woooof wf w wooooof. Wooof wf wof wooof wooof, wf wooooof, wf

dreadnaught, which he had previously hung on a chair, he fumbled in the
wooooooooof, wooof wf wof woooooooof woof wf w wooof, wf wooooof wf wof

pockets, and produced at length a curious little deformed image with
wooooof, wof woooooof wf woooof w wooooof woooof woooooof wooof woof

a hunch on its back, and exactly the colour of a three days' old Congo
w wooof wf wof woof, wof wooooof wof woooof wf w wooof woof' wof Wooof

baby. Remembering the embalmed head, at first I almost thought that
woof. Wooooooooof wof woooooof woof, wf wooof W woooof wooooof woof

this black manikin was a real baby preserved in some similar manner. But
woof wooof wooooof wof w woof woof wooooooof wf woof wooooof woooof. Wof

seeing that it was not at all limber, and that it glistened a good deal
woooof woof wf wof wof wf wof woooof, wof woof wf wooooooof w woof woof

like polished ebony, I concluded that it must be nothing but a wooden
woof woooooof wooof, W wooooooof woof wf woof wf wooooof wof w woooof

idol, which indeed it proved to be. For now the savage goes up to the
woof, wooof woooof wf woooof wf wf. Wof wof wof woooof woof wf wf wof

empty fire-place, and removing the papered fire-board, sets up this
wooof woof-wooof, wof woooooof wof wooooof woof-wooof, woof wf woof

little hunch-backed image, like a tenpin, between the andirons. The
woooof wooof-woooof wooof, woof w woooof, wooooof wof woooooof. Wof

chimney jambs and all the bricks inside were very sooty, so that I
wooooof wooof wof wof wof woooof woooof woof woof wooof, wf woof W

thought this fire-place made a very appropriate little shrine or chapel
wooooof woof woof-wooof woof w woof wooooooooof woooof woooof wf woooof

for his Congo idol.
wof wof Wooof woof.




I now screwed my eyes hard towards the half hidden image, feeling but
W wof wooooof wf woof woof wooooof wof woof woooof wooof, wooooof wof

ill at ease meantime--to see what was next to follow. First he takes
wof wf woof woooooof--wf wof woof wof woof wf woooof. Wooof wf wooof

about a double handful of shavings out of his grego pocket, and places
wooof w woooof wooooof wf woooooof wof wf wof wooof woooof, wof woooof

them carefully before the idol; then laying a bit of ship biscuit on
woof wooooooof woooof wof woof; woof woooof w wof wf woof wooooof wf

top and applying the flame from the lamp, he kindled the shavings into
wof wof woooooof wof wooof woof wof woof, wf wooooof wof woooooof woof

a sacrificial blaze. Presently, after many hasty snatches into the fire,
w wooooooooof wooof. Wooooooof, wooof woof wooof woooooof woof wof woof,

and still hastier withdrawals of his fingers (whereby he seemed to be
wof wooof wooooof wooooooooof wf wof wooooof (wooooof wf woooof wf wf

scorching them badly), he at last succeeded in drawing out the biscuit;
wooooooof woof wooof), wf wf woof wooooooof wf wooooof wof wof wooooof;

then blowing off the heat and ashes a little, he made a polite offer of
woof wooooof wof wof woof wof wooof w woooof, wf woof w woooof wooof wf

it to the little negro. But the little devil did not seem to fancy such
wf wf wof woooof wooof. Wof wof woooof wooof wof wof woof wf wooof woof

dry sort of fare at all; he never moved his lips. All these strange
wof woof wf woof wf wof; wf wooof wooof wof woof. Wof wooof wooooof

antics were accompanied by still stranger guttural noises from the
woooof woof wooooooooof wf wooof woooooof woooooof woooof woof wof

devotee, who seemed to be praying in a sing-song or else singing some
wooooof, wof woooof wf wf wooooof wf w woof-woof wf woof wooooof woof

pagan psalmody or other, during which his face twitched about in the
wooof woooooof wf wooof, woooof wooof wof woof woooooof wooof wf wof

most unnatural manner. At last extinguishing the fire, he took the idol
woof wooooooof woooof. Wf woof wooooooooooof wof woof, wf woof wof woof

up very unceremoniously, and bagged it again in his grego pocket as
wf woof wooooooooooooof, wof woooof wf wooof wf wof wooof woooof wf

carelessly as if he were a sportsman bagging a dead woodcock.
woooooooof wf wf wf woof w wooooooof wooooof w woof woooooof.




All these queer proceedings increased my uncomfortableness, and
Wof wooof wooof wooooooooof wooooooof wf wooooooooooooooof, wof

seeing him now exhibiting strong symptoms of concluding his business
woooof wof wof woooooooof woooof woooooof wf woooooooof wof woooooof

operations, and jumping into bed with me, I thought it was high time,
woooooooof, wof wooooof woof wof woof wf, W wooooof wf wof woof woof,

now or never, before the light was put out, to break the spell in which
wof wf wooof, woooof wof wooof wof wof wof, wf wooof wof wooof wf wooof

I had so long been bound.
W wof wf woof woof wooof.




But the interval I spent in deliberating what to say, was a fatal one.
Wof wof woooooof W wooof wf woooooooooof woof wf wof, wof w wooof wof.

Taking up his tomahawk from the table, he examined the head of it for an
Woooof wf wof woooooof woof wof wooof, wf woooooof wof woof wf wf wof wf

instant, and then holding it to the light, with his mouth at the handle,
wooooof, wof woof wooooof wf wf wof wooof, woof wof wooof wf wof woooof,

he puffed out great clouds of tobacco smoke. The next moment the light
wf woooof wof wooof woooof wf wooooof wooof. Wof woof woooof wof wooof

was extinguished, and this wild cannibal, tomahawk between his teeth,
wof woooooooooof, wof woof woof woooooof, woooooof wooooof wof wooof,

sprang into bed with me. I sang out, I could not help it now; and giving
woooof woof wof woof wf. W woof wof, W wooof wof woof wf wof; wof woooof

a sudden grunt of astonishment he began feeling me.
w woooof wooof wf woooooooooof wf wooof wooooof wf.




Stammering out something, I knew not what, I rolled away from him
Woooooooof wof wooooooof, W woof wof woof, W woooof woof woof wof

against the wall, and then conjured him, whoever or whatever he might
wooooof wof woof, wof woof woooooof wof, wooooof wf woooooof wf wooof

be, to keep quiet, and let me get up and light the lamp again. But his
wf, wf woof wooof, wof wof wf wof wf wof wooof wof woof wooof. Wof wof

guttural responses satisfied me at once that he but ill comprehended my
woooooof wooooooof wooooooof wf wf woof woof wf wof wof woooooooooof wf

meaning.
wooooof.




"Who-e debel you?"--he at last said--"you no speak-e, dam-me, I kill-e."
"Wof-w wooof wof?"--wf wf woof woof--"wof wf wooof-w, wof-wf, W woof-w."

And so saying the lighted tomahawk began flourishing about me in the
Wof wf woooof wof wooooof woooooof wooof wooooooooof wooof wf wf wof

dark.
woof.




"Landlord, for God's sake, Peter Coffin!" shouted I. "Landlord! Watch!
"Woooooof, wof Wof'w woof, Wooof Woooof!" wooooof W. "Woooooof! Wooof!

Coffin! Angels! save me!"
Woooof! Woooof! woof wf!"




"Speak-e! tell-ee me who-ee be, or dam-me, I kill-e!" again growled the
"Wooof-w! woof-wf wf wof-wf wf, wf wof-wf, W woof-w!" wooof wooooof wof

cannibal, while his horrid flourishings of the tomahawk scattered the
woooooof, wooof wof woooof woooooooooof wf wof woooooof wooooooof wof

hot tobacco ashes about me till I thought my linen would get on fire.
wof wooooof wooof wooof wf woof W wooooof wf wooof wooof wof wf woof.

But thank heaven, at that moment the landlord came into the room light
Wof wooof woooof, wf woof woooof wof woooooof woof woof wof woof wooof

in hand, and leaping from the bed I ran up to him.
wf woof, wof wooooof woof wof wof W wof wf wf wof.




"Don't be afraid now," said he, grinning again, "Queequeg here wouldn't
"Wof'w wf woooof wof," woof wf, woooooof wooof, "Woooooof woof woooof'w

harm a hair of your head."
woof w woof wf woof woof."




"Stop your grinning," shouted I, "and why didn't you tell me that that
"Woof woof woooooof," wooooof W, "wof wof woof'w wof woof wf woof woof

infernal harpooneer was a cannibal?"
woooooof woooooooof wof w woooooof?"




"I thought ye know'd it;--didn't I tell ye, he was a peddlin' heads
"W wooooof wf woof'w wf;--woof'w W woof wf, wf wof w wooooof' wooof

around town?--but turn flukes again and go to sleep. Queequeg, look
woooof woof?--wof woof woooof wooof wof wf wf wooof. Woooooof, woof

here--you sabbee me, I sabbee--you this man sleepe you--you sabbee?"
woof--wof woooof wf, W woooof--wof woof wof woooof wof--wof woooof?"




"Me sabbee plenty"--grunted Queequeg, puffing away at his pipe and
"Wf woooof woooof"--wooooof Woooooof, wooooof woof wf wof woof wof

sitting up in bed.
wooooof wf wf wof.




"You gettee in," he added, motioning to me with his tomahawk, and
"Wof woooof wf," wf wooof, wooooooof wf wf woof wof woooooof, wof

throwing the clothes to one side. He really did this in not only a civil
woooooof wof wooooof wf wof woof. Wf woooof wof woof wf wof woof w wooof

but a really kind and charitable way. I stood looking at him a moment.
wof w woooof woof wof woooooooof wof. W wooof wooooof wf wof w woooof.

For all his tattooings he was on the whole a clean, comely looking
Wof wof wof woooooooof wf wof wf wof wooof w wooof, woooof wooooof

cannibal. What's all this fuss I have been making about, thought I to
woooooof. Woof'w wof woof woof W woof woof woooof wooof, wooooof W wf

myself--the man's a human being just as I am: he has just as much reason
woooof--wof wof'w w wooof wooof woof wf W wf: wf wof woof wf woof woooof

to fear me, as I have to be afraid of him. Better sleep with a sober
wf woof wf, wf W woof wf wf woooof wf wof. Woooof wooof woof w wooof

cannibal than a drunken Christian.
woooooof woof w wooooof Wooooooof.




"Landlord," said I, "tell him to stash his tomahawk there, or pipe, or
"Woooooof," woof W, "woof wof wf wooof wof woooooof wooof, wf woof, wf

whatever you call it; tell him to stop smoking, in short, and I will
woooooof wof woof wf; woof wof wf woof wooooof, wf wooof, wof W woof

turn in with him. But I don't fancy having a man smoking in bed with me.
woof wf woof wof. Wof W wof'w wooof woooof w wof wooooof wf wof woof wf.

It's dangerous. Besides, I ain't insured."
Wf'w wooooooof. Wooooof, W wof'w wooooof."




This being told to Queequeg, he at once complied, and again politely
Woof wooof woof wf Woooooof, wf wf woof woooooof, wof wooof woooooof

motioned me to get into bed--rolling over to one side as much as to
woooooof wf wf wof woof wof--wooooof woof wf wof woof wf woof wf wf

say--"I won't touch a leg of ye."
wof--"W wof'w wooof w wof wf wf."




"Good night, landlord," said I, "you may go."
"Woof wooof, woooooof," woof W, "wof wof wf."




I turned in, and never slept better in my life.
W woooof wf, wof wooof wooof woooof wf wf woof.










CHAPTER 4. The Counterpane.
WOOOOOF w. Wof Wooooooooof.







Upon waking next morning about daylight, I found Queequeg's arm thrown
Woof woooof woof wooooof wooof woooooof, W wooof Woooooof'w wof woooof

over me in the most loving and affectionate manner. You had almost
woof wf wf wof woof woooof wof woooooooooof woooof. Wof wof woooof

thought I had been his wife. The counterpane was of patchwork, full of
wooooof W wof woof wof woof. Wof wooooooooof wof wf wooooooof, woof wf

odd little parti-coloured squares and triangles; and this arm of his
wof woooof wooof-woooooof wooooof wof wooooooof; wof woof wof wf wof

tattooed all over with an interminable Cretan labyrinth of a figure,
woooooof wof woof woof wf woooooooooof Woooof wooooooof wf w woooof,

no two parts of which were of one precise shade--owing I suppose to
wf wof wooof wf wooof woof wf wof wooooof wooof--wooof W wooooof wf

his keeping his arm at sea unmethodically in sun and shade, his shirt
wof wooooof wof wof wf wof woooooooooooof wf wof wof wooof, wof wooof

sleeves irregularly rolled up at various times--this same arm of his, I
wooooof wooooooooof woooof wf wf wooooof wooof--woof woof wof wf wof, W

say, looked for all the world like a strip of that same patchwork quilt.
wof, woooof wof wof wof wooof woof w wooof wf woof woof wooooooof wooof.

Indeed, partly lying on it as the arm did when I first awoke, I could
Woooof, woooof wooof wf wf wf wof wof wof woof W wooof wooof, W wooof

hardly tell it from the quilt, they so blended their hues together; and
woooof woof wf woof wof wooof, woof wf wooooof wooof woof woooooof; wof

it was only by the sense of weight and pressure that I could tell that
wf wof woof wf wof wooof wf woooof wof woooooof woof W wooof woof woof

Queequeg was hugging me.
Woooooof wof wooooof wf.




My sensations were strange. Let me try to explain them. When I was a
Wf woooooooof woof wooooof. Wof wf wof wf wooooof woof. Woof W wof w

child, I well remember a somewhat similar circumstance that befell me;
wooof, W woof woooooof w woooooof wooooof woooooooooof woof woooof wf;

whether it was a reality or a dream, I never could entirely settle.
wooooof wf wof w wooooof wf w wooof, W wooof wooof woooooof woooof.

The circumstance was this. I had been cutting up some caper or other--I
Wof woooooooooof wof woof. W wof woof wooooof wf woof wooof wf wooof--W

think it was trying to crawl up the chimney, as I had seen a little
wooof wf wof woooof wf wooof wf wof wooooof, wf W wof woof w woooof

sweep do a few days previous; and my stepmother who, somehow or other,
wooof wf w wof woof woooooof; wof wf woooooooof wof, wooooof wf wooof,

was all the time whipping me, or sending me to bed supperless,--my
wof wof wof woof woooooof wf, wf wooooof wf wf wof woooooooof,--wf

mother dragged me by the legs out of the chimney and packed me off to
woooof wooooof wf wf wof woof wof wf wof wooooof wof woooof wf wof wf

bed, though it was only two o'clock in the afternoon of the 21st June,
wof, woooof wf wof woof wof w'wooof wf wof wooooooof wf wof woof Woof,

the longest day in the year in our hemisphere. I felt dreadfully. But
wof wooooof wof wf wof woof wf wof woooooooof. W woof woooooooof. Wof

there was no help for it, so up stairs I went to my little room in the
wooof wof wf woof wof wf, wf wf woooof W woof wf wf woooof woof wf wof

third floor, undressed myself as slowly as possible so as to kill time,
wooof wooof, wooooooof woooof wf woooof wf woooooof wf wf wf woof woof,

and with a bitter sigh got between the sheets.
wof woof w woooof woof wof wooooof wof woooof.




I lay there dismally calculating that sixteen entire hours must elapse
W wof wooof woooooof wooooooooof woof wooooof woooof wooof woof woooof

before I could hope for a resurrection. Sixteen hours in bed! the
woooof W wooof woof wof w woooooooooof. Wooooof wooof wf wof! wof

small of my back ached to think of it. And it was so light too; the
wooof wf wf woof wooof wf wooof wf wf. Wof wf wof wf wooof wof; wof

sun shining in at the window, and a great rattling of coaches in the
wof wooooof wf wf wof woooof, wof w wooof woooooof wf wooooof wf wof

streets, and the sound of gay voices all over the house. I felt worse
wooooof, wof wof wooof wf wof woooof wof woof wof wooof. W woof wooof

and worse--at last I got up, dressed, and softly going down in my
wof wooof--wf woof W wof wf, wooooof, wof woooof wooof woof wf wf

stockinged feet, sought out my stepmother, and suddenly threw myself
woooooooof woof, woooof wof wf woooooooof, wof woooooof wooof woooof

at her feet, beseeching her as a particular favour to give me a good
wf wof woof, woooooooof wof wf w woooooooof woooof wf woof wf w woof

slippering for my misbehaviour; anything indeed but condemning me to lie
woooooooof wof wf woooooooooof; woooooof woooof wof woooooooof wf wf wof

abed such an unendurable length of time. But she was the best and most
woof woof wf wooooooooof woooof wf woof. Wof wof wof wof woof wof woof

conscientious of stepmothers, and back I had to go to my room. For
wooooooooooof wf wooooooooof, wof woof W wof wf wf wf wf woof. Wof

several hours I lay there broad awake, feeling a great deal worse than I
wooooof wooof W wof wooof wooof wooof, wooooof w wooof woof wooof woof W

have ever done since, even from the greatest subsequent misfortunes. At
woof woof woof wooof, woof woof wof woooooof woooooooof wooooooooof. Wf

last I must have fallen into a troubled nightmare of a doze; and slowly
woof W woof woof woooof woof w woooooof wooooooof wf w woof; wof woooof

waking from it--half steeped in dreams--I opened my eyes, and the before
woooof woof wf--woof wooooof wf woooof--W woooof wf woof, wof wof woooof

sun-lit room was now wrapped in outer darkness. Instantly I felt a shock
wof-wof woof wof wof wooooof wf wooof woooooof. Wooooooof W woof w wooof

running through all my frame; nothing was to be seen, and nothing was
wooooof wooooof wof wf wooof; wooooof wof wf wf woof, wof wooooof wof

to be heard; but a supernatural hand seemed placed in mine. My arm hung
wf wf wooof; wof w woooooooooof woof woooof woooof wf woof. Wf wof woof

over the counterpane, and the nameless, unimaginable, silent form
woof wof wooooooooof, wof wof woooooof, woooooooooof, woooof woof

or phantom, to which the hand belonged, seemed closely seated by my
wf wooooof, wf wooof wof woof woooooof, woooof wooooof woooof wf wf

bed-side. For what seemed ages piled on ages, I lay there, frozen with
wof-woof. Wof woof woooof woof wooof wf woof, W wof wooof, woooof woof

the most awful fears, not daring to drag away my hand; yet ever thinking
wof woof wooof wooof, wof woooof wf woof woof wf woof; wof woof woooooof

that if I could but stir it one single inch, the horrid spell would be
woof wf W wooof wof woof wf wof woooof woof, wof woooof wooof wooof wf

broken. I knew not how this consciousness at last glided away from me;
woooof. W woof wof wof woof wooooooooooof wf woof woooof woof woof wf;

but waking in the morning, I shudderingly remembered it all, and for
wof woooof wf wof wooooof, W woooooooooof woooooooof wf wof, wof wof

days and weeks and months afterwards I lost myself in confounding
woof wof wooof wof woooof woooooooof W woof woooof wf wooooooooof

attempts to explain the mystery. Nay, to this very hour, I often puzzle
woooooof wf wooooof wof wooooof. Wof, wf woof woof woof, W wooof woooof

myself with it.
woooof woof wf.




Now, take away the awful fear, and my sensations at feeling the
Wof, woof woof wof wooof woof, wof wf woooooooof wf wooooof wof

supernatural hand in mine were very similar, in their strangeness, to
woooooooooof woof wf woof woof woof wooooof, wf wooof wooooooooof, wf

those which I experienced on waking up and seeing Queequeg's pagan
wooof wooof W wooooooooof wf woooof wf wof woooof Woooooof'w wooof

arm thrown round me. But at length all the past night's events soberly
wof woooof wooof wf. Wof wf woooof wof wof woof wooof'w woooof wooooof

recurred, one by one, in fixed reality, and then I lay only alive to
woooooof, wof wf wof, wf wooof wooooof, wof woof W wof woof wooof wf

the comical predicament. For though I tried to move his arm--unlock his
wof wooooof wooooooooof. Wof woooof W wooof wf woof wof wof--woooof wof

bridegroom clasp--yet, sleeping as he was, he still hugged me tightly,
woooooooof wooof--wof, woooooof wf wf wof, wf wooof woooof wf wooooof,

as though naught but death should part us twain. I now strove to rouse
wf woooof woooof wof wooof woooof woof wf wooof. W wof woooof wf wooof

him--"Queequeg!"--but his only answer was a snore. I then rolled over,
wof--"Woooooof!"--wof wof woof woooof wof w wooof. W woof woooof woof,

my neck feeling as if it were in a horse-collar; and suddenly felt a
wf woof wooooof wf wf wf woof wf w wooof-woooof; wof woooooof woof w

slight scratch. Throwing aside the counterpane, there lay the tomahawk
woooof wooooof. Woooooof wooof wof wooooooooof, wooof wof wof woooooof

sleeping by the savage's side, as if it were a hatchet-faced baby. A
woooooof wf wof woooof'w woof, wf wf wf woof w wooooof-wooof woof. W

pretty pickle, truly, thought I; abed here in a strange house in the
woooof woooof, wooof, wooooof W; woof woof wf w wooooof wooof wf wof

broad day, with a cannibal and a tomahawk! "Queequeg!--in the name of
wooof wof, woof w woooooof wof w woooooof! "Woooooof!--wf wof woof wf

goodness, Queequeg, wake!" At length, by dint of much wriggling, and
woooooof, Woooooof, woof!" Wf woooof, wf woof wf woof wooooooof, wof

loud and incessant expostulations upon the unbecomingness of his
woof wof wooooooof woooooooooooof woof wof woooooooooooof wf wof

hugging a fellow male in that matrimonial sort of style, I succeeded in
wooooof w woooof woof wf woof wooooooooof woof wf wooof, W wooooooof wf

extracting a grunt; and presently, he drew back his arm, shook himself
woooooooof w wooof; wof wooooooof, wf woof woof wof wof, wooof wooooof

all over like a Newfoundland dog just from the water, and sat up in bed,
wof woof woof w Woooooooooof wof woof woof wof wooof, wof wof wf wf wof,

stiff as a pike-staff, looking at me, and rubbing his eyes as if he
wooof wf w woof-wooof, wooooof wf wf, wof wooooof wof woof wf wf wf

did not altogether remember how I came to be there, though a dim
wof wof woooooooof woooooof wof W woof wf wf wooof, woooof w wof

consciousness of knowing something about me seemed slowly dawning over
wooooooooooof wf wooooof wooooooof wooof wf woooof woooof wooooof woof

him. Meanwhile, I lay quietly eyeing him, having no serious misgivings
wof. Wooooooof, W wof wooooof woooof wof, woooof wf wooooof woooooooof

now, and bent upon narrowly observing so curious a creature. When, at
wof, wof woof woof woooooof wooooooof wf wooooof w woooooof. Woof, wf

last, his mind seemed made up touching the character of his bedfellow,
woof, wof woof woooof woof wf woooooof wof wooooooof wf wof wooooooof,

and he became, as it were, reconciled to the fact; he jumped out upon
wof wf woooof, wf wf woof, woooooooof wf wof woof; wf woooof wof woof

the floor, and by certain signs and sounds gave me to understand that,
wof wooof, wof wf wooooof wooof wof woooof woof wf wf woooooooof woof,

if it pleased me, he would dress first and then leave me to dress
wf wf wooooof wf, wf wooof wooof wooof wof woof wooof wf wf wooof

afterwards, leaving the whole apartment to myself. Thinks I, Queequeg,
woooooooof, wooooof wof wooof wooooooof wf woooof. Woooof W, Woooooof,

under the circumstances, this is a very civilized overture; but, the
wooof wof wooooooooooof, woof wf w woof wooooooof woooooof; wof, wof

truth is, these savages have an innate sense of delicacy, say what
wooof wf, wooof wooooof woof wf woooof wooof wf woooooof, wof woof

you will; it is marvellous how essentially polite they are. I pay this
wof woof; wf wf woooooooof wof wooooooooof woooof woof wof. W wof woof

particular compliment to Queequeg, because he treated me with so much
woooooooof woooooooof wf Woooooof, wooooof wf wooooof wf woof wf woof

civility and consideration, while I was guilty of great rudeness;
woooooof wof wooooooooooof, wooof W wof woooof wf wooof woooooof;

staring at him from the bed, and watching all his toilette motions; for
wooooof wf wof woof wof wof, wof woooooof wof wof woooooof wooooof; wof

the time my curiosity getting the better of my breeding. Nevertheless,
wof woof wf wooooooof wooooof wof woooof wf wf woooooof. Woooooooooof,

a man like Queequeg you don't see every day, he and his ways were well
w wof woof Woooooof wof wof'w wof wooof wof, wf wof wof woof woof woof

worth unusual regarding.
wooof wooooof wooooooof.




He commenced dressing at top by donning his beaver hat, a very tall one,
Wf wooooooof woooooof wf wof wf wooooof wof woooof wof, w woof woof wof,

by the by, and then--still minus his trowsers--he hunted up his boots.
wf wof wf, wof woof--wooof wooof wof woooooof--wf woooof wf wof wooof.

What under the heavens he did it for, I cannot tell, but his next
Woof wooof wof wooooof wf wof wf wof, W woooof woof, wof wof woof

movement was to crush himself--boots in hand, and hat on--under the bed;
woooooof wof wf wooof wooooof--wooof wf woof, wof wof wf--wooof wof wof;

when, from sundry violent gaspings and strainings, I inferred he was
woof, woof woooof wooooof woooooof wof woooooooof, W woooooof wf wof

hard at work booting himself; though by no law of propriety that I ever
woof wf woof wooooof wooooof; woooof wf wf wof wf wooooooof woof W woof

heard of, is any man required to be private when putting on his
wooof wf, wf wof wof woooooof wf wf wooooof woof wooooof wf wof

boots. But Queequeg, do you see, was a creature in the transition
wooof. Wof Woooooof, wf wof wof, wof w woooooof wf wof woooooooof

stage--neither caterpillar nor butterfly. He was just enough civilized
wooof--wooooof wooooooooof wof wooooooof. Wf wof woof woooof wooooooof

to show off his outlandishness in the strangest possible manners. His
wf woof wof wof woooooooooooof wf wof wooooooof woooooof wooooof. Wof

education was not yet completed. He was an undergraduate. If he had not
wooooooof wof wof wof wooooooof. Wf wof wf wooooooooooof. Wf wf wof wof

been a small degree civilized, he very probably would not have troubled
woof w wooof woooof wooooooof, wf woof woooooof wooof wof woof woooooof

himself with boots at all; but then, if he had not been still a savage,
wooooof woof wooof wf wof; wof woof, wf wf wof wof woof wooof w woooof,

he never would have dreamt of getting under the bed to put them on. At
wf wooof wooof woof woooof wf wooooof wooof wof wof wf wof woof wf. Wf

last, he emerged with his hat very much dented and crushed down over his
woof, wf wooooof woof wof wof woof woof woooof wof wooooof woof woof wof

eyes, and began creaking and limping about the room, as if, not
woof, wof wooof woooooof wof wooooof wooof wof woof, wf wf, wof

being much accustomed to boots, his pair of damp, wrinkled cowhide
wooof woof woooooooof wf wooof, wof woof wf woof, woooooof wooooof

ones--probably not made to order either--rather pinched and tormented
woof--woooooof wof woof wf wooof woooof--woooof wooooof wof wooooooof

him at the first go off of a bitter cold morning.
wof wf wof wooof wf wof wf w woooof woof wooooof.




Seeing, now, that there were no curtains to the window, and that the
Woooof, wof, woof wooof woof wf woooooof wf wof woooof, wof woof wof

street being very narrow, the house opposite commanded a plain view
woooof wooof woof woooof, wof wooof woooooof wooooooof w wooof woof

into the room, and observing more and more the indecorous figure that
woof wof woof, wof wooooooof woof wof woof wof woooooooof woooof woof

Queequeg made, staving about with little else but his hat and boots on;
Woooooof woof, wooooof wooof woof woooof woof wof wof wof wof wooof wf;

I begged him as well as I could, to accelerate his toilet somewhat,
W woooof wof wf woof wf W wooof, wf woooooooof wof woooof woooooof,

and particularly to get into his pantaloons as soon as possible. He
wof woooooooooof wf wof woof wof woooooooof wf woof wf woooooof. Wf

complied, and then proceeded to wash himself. At that time in the
woooooof, wof woof wooooooof wf woof wooooof. Wf woof woof wf wof

morning any Christian would have washed his face; but Queequeg, to
wooooof wof Wooooooof wooof woof woooof wof woof; wof Woooooof, wf

my amazement, contented himself with restricting his ablutions to his
wf wooooooof, wooooooof wooooof woof wooooooooof wof wooooooof wf wof

chest, arms, and hands. He then donned his waistcoat, and taking up a
wooof, woof, wof wooof. Wf woof woooof wof wooooooof, wof woooof wf w

piece of hard soap on the wash-stand centre table, dipped it into water
wooof wf woof woof wf wof woof-wooof woooof wooof, woooof wf woof wooof

and commenced lathering his face. I was watching to see where he kept
wof wooooooof wooooooof wof woof. W wof woooooof wf wof wooof wf woof

his razor, when lo and behold, he takes the harpoon from the bed corner,
wof wooof, woof wf wof woooof, wf wooof wof wooooof woof wof wof woooof,

slips out the long wooden stock, unsheathes the head, whets it a little
wooof wof wof woof woooof wooof, woooooooof wof woof, wooof wf w woooof

on his boot, and striding up to the bit of mirror against the wall,
wf wof woof, wof woooooof wf wf wof wof wf woooof wooooof wof woof,

begins a vigorous scraping, or rather harpooning of his cheeks. Thinks
woooof w woooooof woooooof, wf woooof woooooooof wf wof woooof. Woooof

I, Queequeg, this is using Rogers's best cutlery with a vengeance.
W, Woooooof, woof wf wooof Woooof'w woof wooooof woof w wooooooof.

Afterwards I wondered the less at this operation when I came to know of
Woooooooof W woooooof wof woof wf woof wooooooof woof W woof wf woof wf

what fine steel the head of a harpoon is made, and how exceedingly sharp
woof woof wooof wof woof wf w wooooof wf woof, wof wof wooooooooof wooof

the long straight edges are always kept.
wof woof woooooof wooof wof woooof woof.




The rest of his toilet was soon achieved, and he proudly marched out of
Wof woof wf wof woooof wof woof woooooof, wof wf wooooof wooooof wof wf

the room, wrapped up in his great pilot monkey jacket, and sporting his
wof woof, wooooof wf wf wof wooof wooof woooof woooof, wof woooooof wof

harpoon like a marshal's baton.
wooooof woof w wooooof'w wooof.










CHAPTER 5. Breakfast.
WOOOOOF w. Wooooooof.







I quickly followed suit, and descending into the bar-room accosted the
W wooooof woooooof woof, wof woooooooof woof wof wof-woof woooooof wof

grinning landlord very pleasantly. I cherished no malice towards him,
woooooof woooooof woof woooooooof. W wooooooof wf woooof wooooof wof,

though he had been skylarking with me not a little in the matter of my
woooof wf wof woof woooooooof woof wf wof w woooof wf wof woooof wf wf

bedfellow.
wooooooof.




However, a good laugh is a mighty good thing, and rather too scarce a
Wooooof, w woof wooof wf w woooof woof wooof, wof woooof wof woooof w

good thing; the more's the pity. So, if any one man, in his own
woof wooof; wof woof'w wof woof. Wf, wf wof wof wof, wf wof wof

proper person, afford stuff for a good joke to anybody, let him not be
woooof woooof, woooof wooof wof w woof woof wf wooooof, wof wof wof wf

backward, but let him cheerfully allow himself to spend and be spent in
woooooof, wof wof wof woooooooof wooof wooooof wf wooof wof wf wooof wf

that way. And the man that has anything bountifully laughable about him,
woof wof. Wof wof wof woof wof woooooof wooooooooof wooooooof wooof wof,

be sure there is more in that man than you perhaps think for.
wf woof wooof wf woof wf woof wof woof wof wooooof wooof wof.




The bar-room was now full of the boarders who had been dropping in the
Wof wof-woof wof wof woof wf wof woooooof wof wof woof woooooof wf wof

night previous, and whom I had not as yet had a good look at. They were
wooof woooooof, wof woof W wof wof wf wof wof w woof woof wf. Woof woof

nearly all whalemen; chief mates, and second mates, and third mates, and
woooof wof woooooof; wooof wooof, wof woooof wooof, wof wooof wooof, wof

sea carpenters, and sea coopers, and sea blacksmiths, and harpooneers,
wof woooooooof, wof wof wooooof, wof wof wooooooooof, wof wooooooooof,

and ship keepers; a brown and brawny company, with bosky beards; an
wof woof wooooof; w wooof wof woooof wooooof, woof wooof woooof; wf

unshorn, shaggy set, all wearing monkey jackets for morning gowns.
wooooof, woooof wof, wof wooooof woooof wooooof wof wooooof wooof.




You could pretty plainly tell how long each one had been ashore. This
Wof wooof woooof wooooof woof wof woof woof wof wof woof woooof. Woof

young fellow's healthy cheek is like a sun-toasted pear in hue, and
wooof woooof'w wooooof wooof wf woof w wof-wooooof woof wf wof, wof

would seem to smell almost as musky; he cannot have been three days
wooof woof wf wooof woooof wf wooof; wf woooof woof woof wooof woof

landed from his Indian voyage. That man next him looks a few shades
woooof woof wof Woooof woooof. Woof wof woof wof wooof w wof woooof

lighter; you might say a touch of satin wood is in him. In the
wooooof; wof wooof wof w wooof wf wooof woof wf wf wof. Wf wof

complexion of a third still lingers a tropic tawn, but slightly bleached
woooooooof wf w wooof wooof wooooof w woooof woof, wof woooooof woooooof

withal; HE doubtless has tarried whole weeks ashore. But who could show
woooof; WF wooooooof wof wooooof wooof wooof woooof. Wof wof wooof woof

a cheek like Queequeg? which, barred with various tints, seemed like the
w wooof woof Woooooof? wooof, woooof woof wooooof wooof, woooof woof wof

Andes' western slope, to show forth in one array, contrasting climates,
Wooof' wooooof wooof, wf woof wooof wf wof wooof, wooooooooof woooooof,

zone by zone.
woof wf woof.




"Grub, ho!" now cried the landlord, flinging open a door, and in we went
"Woof, wf!" wof wooof wof woooooof, woooooof woof w woof, wof wf wf woof

to breakfast.
wf wooooooof.




They say that men who have seen the world, thereby become quite at ease
Woof wof woof wof wof woof woof wof wooof, wooooof woooof wooof wf woof

in manner, quite self-possessed in company. Not always, though: Ledyard,
wf woooof, wooof woof-wooooooof wf wooooof. Wof woooof, woooof: Wooooof,

the great New England traveller, and Mungo Park, the Scotch one; of all
wof wooof Wof Wooooof wooooooof, wof Wooof Woof, wof Woooof wof; wf wof

men, they possessed the least assurance in the parlor. But perhaps the
wof, woof wooooooof wof wooof wooooooof wf wof woooof. Wof wooooof wof

mere crossing of Siberia in a sledge drawn by dogs as Ledyard did, or
woof woooooof wf Wooooof wf w woooof wooof wf woof wf Wooooof wof, wf

the taking a long solitary walk on an empty stomach, in the negro heart
wof woooof w woof woooooof woof wf wf wooof wooooof, wf wof wooof wooof

of Africa, which was the sum of poor Mungo's performances--this kind of
wf Woooof, wooof wof wof wof wf woof Wooof'w woooooooooof--woof woof wf

travel, I say, may not be the very best mode of attaining a high social
woooof, W wof, wof wof wf wof woof woof woof wf wooooooof w woof woooof

polish. Still, for the most part, that sort of thing is to be had
woooof. Wooof, wof wof woof woof, woof woof wf wooof wf wf wf wof

anywhere.
woooooof.




These reflections just here are occasioned by the circumstance that
Wooof wooooooooof woof woof wof woooooooof wf wof woooooooooof woof

after we were all seated at the table, and I was preparing to hear some
wooof wf woof wof woooof wf wof wooof, wof W wof wooooooof wf woof woof

good stories about whaling; to my no small surprise, nearly every
woof wooooof wooof wooooof; wf wf wf wooof woooooof, woooof wooof

man maintained a profound silence. And not only that, but they looked
wof woooooooof w woooooof wooooof. Wof wof woof woof, wof woof woooof

embarrassed. Yes, here were a set of sea-dogs, many of whom without the
wooooooooof. Wof, woof woof w wof wf wof-woof, woof wf woof wooooof wof

slightest bashfulness had boarded great whales on the high seas--entire
wooooooof wooooooooof wof wooooof wooof woooof wf wof woof woof--woooof

strangers to them--and duelled them dead without winking; and yet, here
wooooooof wf woof--wof wooooof woof woof wooooof wooooof; wof wof, woof

they sat at a social breakfast table--all of the same calling, all of
woof wof wf w woooof wooooooof wooof--wof wf wof woof wooooof, wof wf

kindred tastes--looking round as sheepishly at each other as though they
wooooof woooof--wooooof wooof wf woooooooof wf woof wooof wf woooof woof

had never been out of sight of some sheepfold among the Green Mountains.
wof wooof woof wof wf wooof wf woof wooooooof wooof wof Wooof Wooooooof.

A curious sight; these bashful bears, these timid warrior whalemen!
W wooooof wooof; wooof wooooof wooof, wooof wooof wooooof woooooof!




But as for Queequeg--why, Queequeg sat there among them--at the head of
Wof wf wof Woooooof--wof, Woooooof wof wooof wooof woof--wf wof woof wf

the table, too, it so chanced; as cool as an icicle. To be sure I cannot
wof wooof, wof, wf wf wooooof; wf woof wf wf woooof. Wf wf woof W woooof

say much for his breeding. His greatest admirer could not have cordially
wof woof wof wof woooooof. Wof woooooof wooooof wooof wof woof wooooooof

justified his bringing his harpoon into breakfast with him, and using it
wooooooof wof woooooof wof wooooof woof wooooooof woof wof, wof wooof wf

there without ceremony; reaching over the table with it, to the imminent
wooof wooooof woooooof; woooooof woof wof wooof woof wf, wf wof woooooof

jeopardy of many heads, and grappling the beefsteaks towards him. But
woooooof wf woof wooof, wof wooooooof wof woooooooof wooooof wof. Wof

THAT was certainly very coolly done by him, and every one knows that in
WOOF wof wooooooof woof woooof woof wf wof, wof wooof wof wooof woof wf

most people's estimation, to do anything coolly is to do it genteelly.
woof woooof'w woooooooof, wf wf woooooof woooof wf wf wf wf wooooooof.




We will not speak of all Queequeg's peculiarities here; how he eschewed
Wf woof wof wooof wf wof Woooooof'w wooooooooooof woof; wof wf woooooof

coffee and hot rolls, and applied his undivided attention to beefsteaks,
woooof wof wof wooof, wof wooooof wof wooooooof wooooooof wf woooooooof,

done rare. Enough, that when breakfast was over he withdrew like the
woof woof. Woooof, woof woof wooooooof wof woof wf woooooof woof wof

rest into the public room, lighted his tomahawk-pipe, and was sitting
woof woof wof woooof woof, wooooof wof woooooof-woof, wof wof wooooof

there quietly digesting and smoking with his inseparable hat on, when I
wooof wooooof wooooooof wof wooooof woof wof wooooooooof wof wf, woof W

sallied out for a stroll.
wooooof wof wof w woooof.










CHAPTER 6. The Street.
WOOOOOF w. Wof Woooof.







If I had been astonished at first catching a glimpse of so outlandish
Wf W wof woof woooooooof wf wooof woooooof w wooooof wf wf woooooooof

an individual as Queequeg circulating among the polite society of a
wf woooooooof wf Woooooof wooooooooof wooof wof woooof wooooof wf w

civilized town, that astonishment soon departed upon taking my first
wooooooof woof, woof woooooooooof woof woooooof woof woooof wf wooof

daylight stroll through the streets of New Bedford.
woooooof woooof wooooof wof wooooof wf Wof Wooooof.




In thoroughfares nigh the docks, any considerable seaport will
Wf wooooooooooof woof wof wooof, wof woooooooooof wooooof woof

frequently offer to view the queerest looking nondescripts from foreign
woooooooof wooof wf woof wof woooooof wooooof woooooooooof woof wooooof

parts. Even in Broadway and Chestnut streets, Mediterranean mariners
wooof. Woof wf Woooooof wof Woooooof wooooof, Wooooooooooof woooooof

will sometimes jostle the affrighted ladies. Regent Street is not
woof wooooooof woooof wof woooooooof woooof. Woooof Woooof wf wof

unknown to Lascars and Malays; and at Bombay, in the Apollo Green, live
wooooof wf Wooooof wof Woooof; wof wf Woooof, wf wof Woooof Wooof, woof

Yankees have often scared the natives. But New Bedford beats all Water
Wooooof woof wooof woooof wof wooooof. Wof Wof Wooooof wooof wof Wooof

Street and Wapping. In these last-mentioned haunts you see only sailors;
Woooof wof Wooooof. Wf wooof woof-wooooooof woooof wof wof woof wooooof;

but in New Bedford, actual cannibals stand chatting at street corners;
wof wf Wof Wooooof, woooof wooooooof wooof woooooof wf woooof wooooof;

savages outright; many of whom yet carry on their bones unholy flesh. It
wooooof woooooof; woof wf woof wof wooof wf wooof wooof woooof wooof. Wf

makes a stranger stare.
wooof w woooooof wooof.




But, besides the Feegeeans, Tongatobooarrs, Erromanggoans, Pannangians,
Wof, wooooof wof Wooooooof, Woooooooooooof, Wooooooooooof, Wooooooooof,

and Brighggians, and, besides the wild specimens of the whaling-craft
wof Wooooooooof, wof, wooooof wof woof wooooooof wf wof wooooof-wooof

which unheeded reel about the streets, you will see other sights still
wooof woooooof woof wooof wof wooooof, wof woof wof wooof woooof wooof

more curious, certainly more comical. There weekly arrive in this town
woof wooooof, wooooooof woof wooooof. Wooof woooof woooof wf woof woof

scores of green Vermonters and New Hampshire men, all athirst for gain
woooof wf wooof Woooooooof wof Wof Wooooooof wof, wof wooooof wof woof

and glory in the fishery. They are mostly young, of stalwart frames;
wof wooof wf wof wooooof. Woof wof woooof wooof, wf woooooof woooof;

fellows who have felled forests, and now seek to drop the axe and snatch
wooooof wof woof woooof wooooof, wof wof woof wf woof wof wof wof woooof

the whale-lance. Many are as green as the Green Mountains whence they
wof wooof-wooof. Woof wof wf wooof wf wof Wooof Wooooooof woooof woof

came. In some things you would think them but a few hours old. Look
woof. Wf woof woooof wof wooof wooof woof wof w wof wooof wof. Woof

there! that chap strutting round the corner. He wears a beaver hat and
wooof! woof woof wooooooof wooof wof woooof. Wf wooof w woooof wof wof

swallow-tailed coat, girdled with a sailor-belt and sheath-knife. Here
wooooof-woooof woof, wooooof woof w woooof-woof wof woooof-wooof. Woof

comes another with a sou'-wester and a bombazine cloak.
wooof wooooof woof w wof'-woooof wof w wooooooof wooof.




No town-bred dandy will compare with a country-bred one--I mean a
Wf woof-woof wooof woof wooooof woof w wooooof-woof wof--W woof w

downright bumpkin dandy--a fellow that, in the dog-days, will mow his
wooooooof wooooof wooof--w woooof woof, wf wof wof-woof, woof wof wof

two acres in buckskin gloves for fear of tanning his hands. Now when a
wof wooof wf woooooof woooof wof woof wf wooooof wof wooof. Wof woof w

country dandy like this takes it into his head to make a distinguished
wooooof wooof woof woof wooof wf woof wof woof wf woof w wooooooooooof

reputation, and joins the great whale-fishery, you should see the
woooooooof, wof wooof wof wooof wooof-wooooof, wof woooof wof wof

comical things he does upon reaching the seaport. In bespeaking his
wooooof woooof wf woof woof woooooof wof wooooof. Wf woooooooof wof

sea-outfit, he orders bell-buttons to his waistcoats; straps to his
wof-woooof, wf woooof woof-wooooof wf wof woooooooof; woooof wf wof

canvas trowsers. Ah, poor Hay-Seed! how bitterly will burst those straps
woooof woooooof. Wf, woof Wof-Woof! wof woooooof woof wooof wooof woooof

in the first howling gale, when thou art driven, straps, buttons, and
wf wof wooof wooooof woof, woof woof wof woooof, woooof, wooooof, wof

all, down the throat of the tempest.
wof, woof wof woooof wf wof wooooof.




But think not that this famous town has only harpooneers, cannibals, and
Wof wooof wof woof woof woooof woof wof woof wooooooooof, wooooooof, wof

bumpkins to show her visitors. Not at all. Still New Bedford is a queer
woooooof wf woof wof woooooof. Wof wf wof. Wooof Wof Wooooof wf w wooof

place. Had it not been for us whalemen, that tract of land would this
wooof. Wof wf wof woof wof wf woooooof, woof wooof wf woof wooof woof

day perhaps have been in as howling condition as the coast of Labrador.
wof wooooof woof woof wf wf wooooof wooooooof wf wof wooof wf Woooooof.

As it is, parts of her back country are enough to frighten one, they
Wf wf wf, wooof wf wof woof wooooof wof woooof wf woooooof wof, woof

look so bony. The town itself is perhaps the dearest place to live
woof wf woof. Wof woof woooof wf wooooof wof wooooof wooof wf woof

in, in all New England. It is a land of oil, true enough: but not like
wf, wf wof Wof Wooooof. Wf wf w woof wf wof, woof woooof: wof wof woof

Canaan; a land, also, of corn and wine. The streets do not run with
Woooof; w woof, woof, wf woof wof woof. Wof wooooof wf wof wof woof

milk; nor in the spring-time do they pave them with fresh eggs. Yet, in
woof; wof wf wof woooof-woof wf woof woof woof woof wooof woof. Wof, wf

spite of this, nowhere in all America will you find more patrician-like
wooof wf woof, wooooof wf wof Wooooof woof wof woof woof wooooooof-woof

houses; parks and gardens more opulent, than in New Bedford. Whence came
woooof; wooof wof wooooof woof wooooof, woof wf Wof Wooooof. Woooof woof

they? how planted upon this once scraggy scoria of a country?
woof? wof wooooof woof woof woof wooooof woooof wf w wooooof?




Go and gaze upon the iron emblematical harpoons round yonder lofty
Wf wof woof woof wof woof woooooooooof woooooof wooof woooof wooof

mansion, and your question will be answered. Yes; all these brave houses
wooooof, wof woof woooooof woof wf woooooof. Wof; wof wooof wooof woooof

and flowery gardens came from the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian oceans.
wof wooooof wooooof woof woof wof Woooooof, Wooooof, wof Woooof woooof.

One and all, they were harpooned and dragged up hither from the bottom
Wof wof wof, woof woof wooooooof wof wooooof wf woooof woof wof woooof

of the sea. Can Herr Alexander perform a feat like that?
wf wof wof. Wof Woof Wooooooof wooooof w woof woof woof?




In New Bedford, fathers, they say, give whales for dowers to their
Wf Wof Wooooof, wooooof, woof wof, woof woooof wof woooof wf wooof

daughters, and portion off their nieces with a few porpoises a-piece.
wooooooof, wof wooooof wof wooof woooof woof w wof wooooooof w-wooof.

You must go to New Bedford to see a brilliant wedding; for, they say,
Wof woof wf wf Wof Wooooof wf wof w wooooooof wooooof; wof, woof wof,

they have reservoirs of oil in every house, and every night recklessly
woof woof woooooooof wf wof wf wooof wooof, wof wooof wooof woooooooof

burn their lengths in spermaceti candles.
woof wooof wooooof wf woooooooof wooooof.




In summer time, the town is sweet to see; full of fine maples--long
Wf woooof woof, wof woof wf wooof wf wof; woof wf woof woooof--woof

avenues of green and gold. And in August, high in air, the beautiful and
wooooof wf wooof wof woof. Wof wf Woooof, woof wf wof, wof wooooooof wof

bountiful horse-chestnuts, candelabra-wise, proffer the passer-by their
wooooooof wooof-wooooooof, woooooooof-woof, wooooof wof woooof-wf wooof

tapering upright cones of congregated blossoms. So omnipotent is art;
woooooof wooooof wooof wf wooooooooof woooooof. Wf woooooooof wf wof;

which in many a district of New Bedford has superinduced bright terraces
wooof wf woof w woooooof wf Wof Wooooof wof woooooooooof woooof woooooof

of flowers upon the barren refuse rocks thrown aside at creation's final
wf wooooof woof wof woooof woooof wooof woooof wooof wf woooooof'w wooof

day.
wof.




And the women of New Bedford, they bloom like their own red roses. But
Wof wof wooof wf Wof Wooooof, woof wooof woof wooof wof wof wooof. Wof

roses only bloom in summer; whereas the fine carnation of their cheeks
wooof woof wooof wf woooof; wooooof wof woof wooooooof wf wooof woooof

is perennial as sunlight in the seventh heavens. Elsewhere match that
wf wooooooof wf woooooof wf wof wooooof wooooof. Wooooooof wooof woof

bloom of theirs, ye cannot, save in Salem, where they tell me the young
wooof wf woooof, wf woooof, woof wf Wooof, wooof woof woof wf wof wooof

girls breathe such musk, their sailor sweethearts smell them miles off
wooof wooooof woof woof, wooof woooof wooooooooof wooof woof wooof wof

shore, as though they were drawing nigh the odorous Moluccas instead of
wooof, wf woooof woof woof wooooof woof wof wooooof Woooooof wooooof wf

the Puritanic sands.
wof Wooooooof wooof.










CHAPTER 7. The Chapel.
WOOOOOF w. Wof Woooof.







In this same New Bedford there stands a Whaleman's Chapel, and few are
Wf woof woof Wof Wooooof wooof woooof w Woooooof'w Woooof, wof wof wof

the moody fishermen, shortly bound for the Indian Ocean or Pacific, who
wof wooof wooooooof, wooooof wooof wof wof Woooof Wooof wf Wooooof, wof

fail to make a Sunday visit to the spot. I am sure that I did not.
woof wf woof w Woooof wooof wf wof woof. W wf woof woof W wof wof.




Returning from my first morning stroll, I again sallied out upon this
Wooooooof woof wf wooof wooooof woooof, W wooof wooooof wof woof woof

special errand. The sky had changed from clear, sunny cold, to driving
wooooof woooof. Wof wof wof wooooof woof wooof, wooof woof, wf wooooof

sleet and mist. Wrapping myself in my shaggy jacket of the cloth called
wooof wof woof. Woooooof woooof wf wf woooof woooof wf wof wooof woooof

bearskin, I fought my way against the stubborn storm. Entering, I
woooooof, W woooof wf wof wooooof wof woooooof wooof. Woooooof, W

found a small scattered congregation of sailors, and sailors' wives and
wooof w wooof wooooooof woooooooooof wf wooooof, wof wooooof' wooof wof

widows. A muffled silence reigned, only broken at times by the shrieks
woooof. W wooooof wooooof wooooof, woof woooof wf wooof wf wof wooooof

of the storm. Each silent worshipper seemed purposely sitting apart from
wf wof wooof. Woof woooof woooooooof woooof wooooooof wooooof wooof woof

the other, as if each silent grief were insular and incommunicable. The
wof wooof, wf wf woof woooof wooof woof wooooof wof woooooooooooof. Wof

chaplain had not yet arrived; and there these silent islands of men and
woooooof wof wof wof wooooof; wof wooof wooof woooof wooooof wf wof wof

women sat steadfastly eyeing several marble tablets, with black borders,
wooof wof wooooooooof woooof wooooof woooof wooooof, woof wooof wooooof,

masoned into the wall on either side the pulpit. Three of them ran
wooooof woof wof woof wf woooof woof wof woooof. Wooof wf woof wof

something like the following, but I do not pretend to quote:--
wooooooof woof wof wooooooof, wof W wf wof wooooof wf wooof:--




SACRED TO THE MEMORY OF JOHN TALBOT, Who, at the age of eighteen, was
WOOOOF WF WOF WOOOOF WF WOOF WOOOOF, Wof, wf wof wof wf woooooof, wof

lost overboard, Near the Isle of Desolation, off Patagonia, November
woof wooooooof, Woof wof Woof wf Woooooooof, wof Wooooooof, Woooooof

1st, 1836. THIS TABLET Is erected to his Memory BY HIS SISTER.
wof, woof. WOOF WOOOOF Wf wooooof wf wof Woooof WF WOF WOOOOF.




SACRED TO THE MEMORY OF ROBERT LONG, WILLIS ELLERY, NATHAN COLEMAN,
WOOOOF WF WOF WOOOOF WF WOOOOF WOOF, WOOOOF WOOOOF, WOOOOF WOOOOOF,

WALTER CANNY, SETH MACY, AND SAMUEL GLEIG, Forming one of the boats'
WOOOOF WOOOF, WOOF WOOF, WOF WOOOOF WOOOF, Wooooof wof wf wof wooof'

crews OF THE SHIP ELIZA Who were towed out of sight by a Whale, On the
wooof WF WOF WOOF WOOOF Wof woof wooof wof wf wooof wf w Wooof, Wf wof

Off-shore Ground in the PACIFIC, December 31st, 1839. THIS MARBLE Is
Wof-wooof Woooof wf wof WOOOOOF, Woooooof woof, woof. WOOF WOOOOF Wf

here placed by their surviving SHIPMATES.
woof woooof wf wooof wooooooof WOOOOOOOF.




SACRED TO THE MEMORY OF The late CAPTAIN EZEKIEL HARDY, Who in the bows
WOOOOF WF WOF WOOOOF WF Wof woof WOOOOOF WOOOOOF WOOOF, Wof wf wof woof

of his boat was killed by a Sperm Whale on the coast of Japan, AUGUST
wf wof woof wof woooof wf w Wooof Wooof wf wof wooof wf Wooof, WOOOOF

3d, 1833. THIS TABLET Is erected to his Memory BY HIS WIDOW.
wf, woof. WOOF WOOOOF Wf wooooof wf wof Woooof WF WOF WOOOF.




Shaking off the sleet from my ice-glazed hat and jacket, I seated myself
Wooooof wof wof wooof woof wf wof-woooof wof wof woooof, W woooof woooof

near the door, and turning sideways was surprised to see Queequeg near
woof wof woof, wof wooooof woooooof wof wooooooof wf wof Woooooof woof

me. Affected by the solemnity of the scene, there was a wondering gaze
wf. Woooooof wf wof wooooooof wf wof wooof, wooof wof w wooooooof woof

of incredulous curiosity in his countenance. This savage was the only
wf wooooooooof wooooooof wf wof wooooooooof. Woof woooof wof wof woof

person present who seemed to notice my entrance; because he was the only
woooof wooooof wof woooof wf woooof wf woooooof; wooooof wf wof wof woof

one who could not read, and, therefore, was not reading those frigid
wof wof wooof wof woof, wof, wooooooof, wof wof wooooof wooof woooof

inscriptions on the wall. Whether any of the relatives of the seamen
woooooooooof wf wof woof. Wooooof wof wf wof wooooooof wf wof woooof

whose names appeared there were now among the congregation, I knew not;
wooof wooof woooooof wooof woof wof wooof wof woooooooooof, W woof wof;

but so many are the unrecorded accidents in the fishery, and so plainly
wof wf woof wof wof woooooooof wooooooof wf wof wooooof, wof wf wooooof

did several women present wear the countenance if not the trappings
wof wooooof wooof wooooof woof wof wooooooooof wf wof wof wooooooof

of some unceasing grief, that I feel sure that here before me were
wf woof wooooooof wooof, woof W woof woof woof woof woooof wf woof

assembled those, in whose unhealing hearts the sight of those bleak
wooooooof wooof, wf wooof wooooooof woooof wof wooof wf wooof wooof

tablets sympathetically caused the old wounds to bleed afresh.
wooooof wooooooooooooof woooof wof wof woooof wf wooof woooof.




Oh! ye whose dead lie buried beneath the green grass; who standing among
Wf! wf wooof woof wof woooof wooooof wof wooof wooof; wof woooooof wooof

flowers can say--here, HERE lies my beloved; ye know not the desolation
wooooof wof wof--woof, WOOF woof wf wooooof; wf woof wof wof woooooooof

that broods in bosoms like these. What bitter blanks in those
woof woooof wf woooof woof wooof. Woof woooof woooof wf wooof

black-bordered marbles which cover no ashes! What despair in those
wooof-woooooof wooooof wooof wooof wf wooof! Woof wooooof wf wooof

immovable inscriptions! What deadly voids and unbidden infidelities in
wooooooof woooooooooof! Woof woooof wooof wof woooooof woooooooooof wf

the lines that seem to gnaw upon all Faith, and refuse resurrections to
wof wooof woof woof wf woof woof wof Wooof, wof woooof wooooooooooof wf

the beings who have placelessly perished without a grave. As well might
wof woooof wof woof wooooooooof woooooof wooooof w wooof. Wf woof wooof

those tablets stand in the cave of Elephanta as here.
wooof wooooof wooof wf wof woof wf Wooooooof wf woof.




In what census of living creatures, the dead of mankind are included;
Wf woof woooof wf woooof wooooooof, wof woof wf wooooof wof woooooof;

why it is that a universal proverb says of them, that they tell no
wof wf wf woof w wooooooof wooooof woof wf woof, woof woof woof wf

tales, though containing more secrets than the Goodwin Sands; how it is
wooof, woooof woooooooof woof wooooof woof wof Wooooof Wooof; wof wf wf

that to his name who yesterday departed for the other world, we prefix
woof wf wof woof wof wooooooof woooooof wof wof wooof wooof, wf woooof

so significant and infidel a word, and yet do not thus entitle him, if
wf wooooooooof wof wooooof w woof, wof wof wf wof woof wooooof wof, wf

he but embarks for the remotest Indies of this living earth; why the
wf wof wooooof wof wof woooooof Woooof wf woof woooof wooof; wof wof

Life Insurance Companies pay death-forfeitures upon immortals; in what
Woof Wooooooof Wooooooof wof wooof-wooooooooof woof wooooooof; wf woof

eternal, unstirring paralysis, and deadly, hopeless trance, yet lies
wooooof, woooooooof wooooooof, wof woooof, woooooof woooof, wof woof

antique Adam who died sixty round centuries ago; how it is that we
wooooof Woof wof woof wooof wooof wooooooof wof; wof wf wf woof wf

still refuse to be comforted for those who we nevertheless maintain are
wooof woooof wf wf wooooooof wof wooof wof wf woooooooooof woooooof wof

dwelling in unspeakable bliss; why all the living so strive to hush all
woooooof wf wooooooooof wooof; wof wof wof woooof wf woooof wf woof wof

the dead; wherefore but the rumor of a knocking in a tomb will terrify a
wof woof; wooooooof wof wof wooof wf w woooooof wf w woof woof wooooof w

whole city. All these things are not without their meanings.
wooof woof. Wof wooof woooof wof wof wooooof wooof woooooof.




But Faith, like a jackal, feeds among the tombs, and even from these
Wof Wooof, woof w woooof, wooof wooof wof wooof, wof woof woof wooof

dead doubts she gathers her most vital hope.
woof woooof wof wooooof wof woof wooof woof.




It needs scarcely to be told, with what feelings, on the eve of a
Wf wooof woooooof wf wf woof, woof woof woooooof, wf wof wof wf w

Nantucket voyage, I regarded those marble tablets, and by the murky
Wooooooof woooof, W woooooof wooof woooof wooooof, wof wf wof wooof

light of that darkened, doleful day read the fate of the whalemen
wooof wf woof woooooof, wooooof wof woof wof woof wf wof woooooof

who had gone before me. Yes, Ishmael, the same fate may be thine. But
wof wof woof woooof wf. Wof, Wooooof, wof woof woof wof wf wooof. Wof

somehow I grew merry again. Delightful inducements to embark, fine
wooooof W woof wooof wooof. Woooooooof wooooooooof wf woooof, woof

chance for promotion, it seems--aye, a stove boat will make me an
woooof wof wooooooof, wf wooof--wof, w wooof woof woof woof wf wf

immortal by brevet. Yes, there is death in this business of whaling--a
woooooof wf woooof. Wof, wooof wf wooof wf woof woooooof wf wooooof--w

speechlessly quick chaotic bundling of a man into Eternity. But what
woooooooooof wooof wooooof woooooof wf w wof woof Woooooof. Wof woof

then? Methinks we have hugely mistaken this matter of Life and Death.
woof? Woooooof wf woof woooof woooooof woof woooof wf Woof wof Wooof.

Methinks that what they call my shadow here on earth is my true
Woooooof woof woof woof woof wf woooof woof wf wooof wf wf woof

substance. Methinks that in looking at things spiritual, we are too
wooooooof. Woooooof woof wf wooooof wf woooof wooooooof, wf wof wof

much like oysters observing the sun through the water, and thinking that
woof woof wooooof wooooooof wof wof wooooof wof wooof, wof woooooof woof

thick water the thinnest of air. Methinks my body is but the lees of my
wooof wooof wof woooooof wf wof. Woooooof wf woof wf wof wof woof wf wf

better being. In fact take my body who will, take it I say, it is not
woooof wooof. Wf woof woof wf woof wof woof, woof wf W wof, wf wf wof

me. And therefore three cheers for Nantucket; and come a stove boat and
wf. Wof wooooooof wooof woooof wof Wooooooof; wof woof w wooof woof wof

stove body when they will, for stave my soul, Jove himself cannot.
wooof woof woof woof woof, wof wooof wf woof, Woof wooooof woooof.










CHAPTER 8. The Pulpit.
WOOOOOF w. Wof Woooof.







I had not been seated very long ere a man of a certain venerable
W wof wof woof woooof woof woof wof w wof wf w wooooof wooooooof

robustness entered; immediately as the storm-pelted door flew back upon
woooooooof wooooof; wooooooooof wf wof wooof-woooof woof woof woof woof

admitting him, a quick regardful eyeing of him by all the congregation,
wooooooof wof, w wooof wooooooof woooof wf wof wf wof wof woooooooooof,

sufficiently attested that this fine old man was the chaplain. Yes, it
woooooooooof woooooof woof woof woof wof wof wof wof woooooof. Wof, wf

was the famous Father Mapple, so called by the whalemen, among whom he
wof wof woooof Woooof Woooof, wf woooof wf wof woooooof, wooof woof wf

was a very great favourite. He had been a sailor and a harpooneer in his
wof w woof wooof wooooooof. Wf wof woof w woooof wof w woooooooof wf wof

youth, but for many years past had dedicated his life to the ministry.
wooof, wof wof woof wooof woof wof wooooooof wof woof wf wof woooooof.

At the time I now write of, Father Mapple was in the hardy winter of a
Wf wof woof W wof wooof wf, Woooof Woooof wof wf wof wooof woooof wf w

healthy old age; that sort of old age which seems merging into a second
wooooof wof wof; woof woof wf wof wof wooof wooof wooooof woof w woooof

flowering youth, for among all the fissures of his wrinkles, there shone
wooooooof wooof, wof wooof wof wof woooooof wf wof woooooof, wooof wooof

certain mild gleams of a newly developing bloom--the spring verdure
wooooof woof woooof wf w wooof woooooooof wooof--wof woooof wooooof

peeping forth even beneath February's snow. No one having previously
wooooof wooof woof wooooof Woooooof'w woof. Wf wof woooof woooooooof

heard his history, could for the first time behold Father Mapple without
wooof wof wooooof, wooof wof wof wooof woof woooof Woooof Woooof wooooof

the utmost interest, because there were certain engrafted clerical
wof woooof woooooof, wooooof wooof woof wooooof wooooooof woooooof

peculiarities about him, imputable to that adventurous maritime life
wooooooooooof wooof wof, wooooooof wf woof wooooooooof woooooof woof

he had led. When he entered I observed that he carried no umbrella, and
wf wof wof. Woof wf wooooof W woooooof woof wf wooooof wf woooooof, wof

certainly had not come in his carriage, for his tarpaulin hat ran down
wooooooof wof wof woof wf wof woooooof, wof wof wooooooof wof wof woof

with melting sleet, and his great pilot cloth jacket seemed almost to
woof wooooof wooof, wof wof wooof wooof wooof woooof woooof woooof wf

drag him to the floor with the weight of the water it had absorbed.
woof wof wf wof wooof woof wof woooof wf wof wooof wf wof woooooof.

However, hat and coat and overshoes were one by one removed, and hung up
Wooooof, wof wof woof wof wooooooof woof wof wf wof wooooof, wof woof wf

in a little space in an adjacent corner; when, arrayed in a decent suit,
wf w woooof wooof wf wf woooooof woooof; woof, wooooof wf w woooof woof,

he quietly approached the pulpit.
wf wooooof woooooooof wof woooof.




Like most old fashioned pulpits, it was a very lofty one, and since a
Woof woof wof wooooooof wooooof, wf wof w woof wooof wof, wof wooof w

regular stairs to such a height would, by its long angle with the floor,
wooooof woooof wf woof w woooof wooof, wf wof woof wooof woof wof wooof,

seriously contract the already small area of the chapel, the architect,
wooooooof woooooof wof wooooof wooof woof wf wof woooof, wof wooooooof,

it seemed, had acted upon the hint of Father Mapple, and finished the
wf woooof, wof wooof woof wof woof wf Woooof Woooof, wof woooooof wof

pulpit without a stairs, substituting a perpendicular side ladder, like
woooof wooooof w woooof, woooooooooof w wooooooooooof woof woooof, woof

those used in mounting a ship from a boat at sea. The wife of a whaling
wooof woof wf woooooof w woof woof w woof wf wof. Wof woof wf w wooooof

captain had provided the chapel with a handsome pair of red worsted
wooooof wof woooooof wof woooof woof w woooooof woof wf wof wooooof

man-ropes for this ladder, which, being itself nicely headed, and
wof-wooof wof woof woooof, wooof, wooof woooof woooof woooof, wof

stained with a mahogany colour, the whole contrivance, considering what
wooooof woof w woooooof woooof, wof wooof wooooooooof, wooooooooof woof

manner of chapel it was, seemed by no means in bad taste. Halting for
woooof wf woooof wf wof, woooof wf wf wooof wf wof wooof. Wooooof wof

an instant at the foot of the ladder, and with both hands grasping the
wf wooooof wf wof woof wf wof woooof, wof woof woof wooof woooooof wof

ornamental knobs of the man-ropes, Father Mapple cast a look upwards,
woooooooof wooof wf wof wof-wooof, Woooof Woooof woof w woof wooooof,

and then with a truly sailor-like but still reverential dexterity, hand
wof woof woof w wooof woooof-woof wof wooof wooooooooof wooooooof, woof

over hand, mounted the steps as if ascending the main-top of his vessel.
woof woof, wooooof wof wooof wf wf wooooooof wof woof-wof wf wof woooof.




The perpendicular parts of this side ladder, as is usually the case with
Wof wooooooooooof wooof wf woof woof woooof, wf wf wooooof wof woof woof

swinging ones, were of cloth-covered rope, only the rounds were of wood,
woooooof woof, woof wf wooof-wooooof woof, woof wof woooof woof wf woof,

so that at every step there was a joint. At my first glimpse of the
wf woof wf wooof woof wooof wof w wooof. Wf wf wooof wooooof wf wof

pulpit, it had not escaped me that however convenient for a ship,
woooof, wf wof wof wooooof wf woof wooooof woooooooof wof w woof,

these joints in the present instance seemed unnecessary. For I was not
wooof woooof wf wof wooooof woooooof woooof wooooooooof. Wof W wof wof

prepared to see Father Mapple after gaining the height, slowly turn
woooooof wf wof Woooof Woooof wooof wooooof wof woooof, woooof woof

round, and stooping over the pulpit, deliberately drag up the ladder
wooof, wof woooooof woof wof woooof, woooooooooof woof wf wof woooof

step by step, till the whole was deposited within, leaving him
woof wf woof, woof wof wooof wof wooooooof woooof, wooooof wof

impregnable in his little Quebec.
wooooooooof wf wof woooof Woooof.




I pondered some time without fully comprehending the reason for this.
W woooooof woof woof wooooof wooof wooooooooooof wof woooof wof woof.

Father Mapple enjoyed such a wide reputation for sincerity and sanctity,
Woooof Woooof wooooof woof w woof woooooooof wof wooooooof wof woooooof,

that I could not suspect him of courting notoriety by any mere tricks
woof W wooof wof wooooof wof wf woooooof wooooooof wf wof woof woooof

of the stage. No, thought I, there must be some sober reason for this
wf wof wooof. Wf, wooooof W, wooof woof wf woof wooof woooof wof woof

thing; furthermore, it must symbolize something unseen. Can it be,
wooof; wooooooooof, wf woof wooooooof wooooooof woooof. Wof wf wf,

then, that by that act of physical isolation, he signifies his spiritual
woof, woof wf woof wof wf woooooof wooooooof, wf wooooooof wof wooooooof

withdrawal for the time, from all outward worldly ties and connexions?
woooooooof wof wof woof, woof wof wooooof wooooof woof wof woooooooof?

Yes, for replenished with the meat and wine of the word, to the faithful
Wof, wof wooooooooof woof wof woof wof woof wf wof woof, wf wof woooooof

man of God, this pulpit, I see, is a self-containing stronghold--a lofty
wof wf Wof, woof woooof, W wof, wf w woof-woooooooof woooooooof--w wooof

Ehrenbreitstein, with a perennial well of water within the walls.
Wooooooooooooof, woof w wooooooof woof wf wooof woooof wof wooof.




But the side ladder was not the only strange feature of the place,
Wof wof woof woooof wof wof wof woof wooooof wooooof wf wof wooof,

borrowed from the chaplain's former sea-farings. Between the marble
woooooof woof wof woooooof'w woooof wof-wooooof. Wooooof wof woooof

cenotaphs on either hand of the pulpit, the wall which formed its back
wooooooof wf woooof woof wf wof woooof, wof woof wooof woooof wof woof

was adorned with a large painting representing a gallant ship beating
wof wooooof woof w wooof woooooof woooooooooof w wooooof woof wooooof

against a terrible storm off a lee coast of black rocks and snowy
wooooof w woooooof wooof wof w wof wooof wf wooof wooof wof wooof

breakers. But high above the flying scud and dark-rolling clouds, there
woooooof. Wof woof wooof wof woooof woof wof woof-wooooof woooof, wooof

floated a little isle of sunlight, from which beamed forth an angel's
wooooof w woooof woof wf woooooof, woof wooof woooof wooof wf wooof'w

face; and this bright face shed a distinct spot of radiance upon the
woof; wof woof woooof woof woof w woooooof woof wf woooooof woof wof

ship's tossed deck, something like that silver plate now inserted into
woof'w woooof woof, wooooooof woof woof woooof wooof wof woooooof woof

the Victory's plank where Nelson fell. "Ah, noble ship," the angel
wof Wooooof'w wooof wooof Woooof woof. "Wf, wooof woof," wof wooof

seemed to say, "beat on, beat on, thou noble ship, and bear a hardy
woooof wf wof, "woof wf, woof wf, woof wooof woof, wof woof w wooof

helm; for lo! the sun is breaking through; the clouds are rolling
woof; wof wf! wof wof wf woooooof wooooof; wof woooof wof wooooof

off--serenest azure is at hand."
wof--woooooof wooof wf wf woof."




Nor was the pulpit itself without a trace of the same sea-taste that
Wof wof wof woooof woooof wooooof w wooof wf wof woof wof-wooof woof

had achieved the ladder and the picture. Its panelled front was in
wof woooooof wof woooof wof wof wooooof. Wof woooooof wooof wof wf

the likeness of a ship's bluff bows, and the Holy Bible rested on a
wof woooooof wf w woof'w wooof woof, wof wof Woof Wooof woooof wf w

projecting piece of scroll work, fashioned after a ship's fiddle-headed
woooooooof wooof wf woooof woof, wooooooof wooof w woof'w woooof-woooof

beak.
woof.




What could be more full of meaning?--for the pulpit is ever this earth's
Woof wooof wf woof woof wf wooooof?--wof wof woooof wf woof woof wooof'w

foremost part; all the rest comes in its rear; the pulpit leads the
woooooof woof; wof wof woof wooof wf wof woof; wof woooof wooof wof

world. From thence it is the storm of God's quick wrath is first
wooof. Woof woooof wf wf wof wooof wf Wof'w wooof wooof wf wooof

descried, and the bow must bear the earliest brunt. From thence it is
woooooof, wof wof wof woof woof wof woooooof wooof. Woof woooof wf wf

the God of breezes fair or foul is first invoked for favourable winds.
wof Wof wf wooooof woof wf woof wf wooof wooooof wof woooooooof wooof.

Yes, the world's a ship on its passage out, and not a voyage complete;
Wof, wof wooof'w w woof wf wof wooooof wof, wof wof w woooof woooooof;

and the pulpit is its prow.
wof wof woooof wf wof woof.










CHAPTER 9. The Sermon.
WOOOOOF w. Wof Woooof.







Father Mapple rose, and in a mild voice of unassuming authority ordered
Woooof Woooof woof, wof wf w woof wooof wf woooooooof wooooooof wooooof

the scattered people to condense. "Starboard gangway, there! side away
wof wooooooof woooof wf woooooof. "Wooooooof wooooof, wooof! woof woof

to larboard--larboard gangway to starboard! Midships! midships!"
wf woooooof--woooooof wooooof wf wooooooof! Woooooof! woooooof!"




There was a low rumbling of heavy sea-boots among the benches, and a
Wooof wof w wof woooooof wf wooof wof-wooof wooof wof wooooof, wof w

still slighter shuffling of women's shoes, and all was quiet again, and
wooof woooooof wooooooof wf wooof'w wooof, wof wof wof wooof wooof, wof

every eye on the preacher.
wooof wof wf wof woooooof.




He paused a little; then kneeling in the pulpit's bows, folded his large
Wf woooof w woooof; woof woooooof wf wof woooof'w woof, woooof wof wooof

brown hands across his chest, uplifted his closed eyes, and offered
wooof wooof woooof wof wooof, woooooof wof woooof woof, wof wooooof

a prayer so deeply devout that he seemed kneeling and praying at the
w woooof wf woooof woooof woof wf woooof woooooof wof wooooof wf wof

bottom of the sea.
woooof wf wof wof.




This ended, in prolonged solemn tones, like the continual tolling of
Woof wooof, wf wooooooof woooof wooof, woof wof wooooooof wooooof wf

a bell in a ship that is foundering at sea in a fog--in such tones he
w woof wf w woof woof wf woooooooof wf wof wf w wof--wf woof wooof wf

commenced reading the following hymn; but changing his manner towards
wooooooof wooooof wof wooooooof woof; wof woooooof wof woooof wooooof

the concluding stanzas, burst forth with a pealing exultation and joy--
wof woooooooof wooooof, wooof wooof woof w wooooof woooooooof wof wof--




     "The ribs and terrors in the whale,
     "Wof woof wof wooooof wf wof wooof,

     Arched over me a dismal gloom,
     Woooof woof wf w woooof wooof,

     While all God's sun-lit waves rolled by,
     Wooof wof Wof'w wof-wof wooof woooof wf,

     And lift me deepening down to doom.
     Wof woof wf wooooooof woof wf woof.




     "I saw the opening maw of hell,
     "W wof wof wooooof wof wf woof,

     With endless pains and sorrows there;
     Woof wooooof wooof wof wooooof wooof;

     Which none but they that feel can tell--
     Wooof woof wof woof woof woof wof woof--

     Oh, I was plunging to despair.
     Wf, W wof woooooof wf wooooof.




     "In black distress, I called my God,
     "Wf wooof woooooof, W woooof wf Wof,

     When I could scarce believe him mine,
     Woof W wooof woooof wooooof wof woof,

     He bowed his ear to my complaints--
     Wf wooof wof wof wf wf woooooooof--

     No more the whale did me confine.
     Wf woof wof wooof wof wf wooooof.




     "With speed he flew to my relief,
     "Woof wooof wf woof wf wf woooof,

     As on a radiant dolphin borne;
     Wf wf w wooooof wooooof wooof;

     Awful, yet bright, as lightning shone
     Wooof, wof woooof, wf wooooooof wooof

     The face of my Deliverer God.
     Wof woof wf wf Wooooooof Wof.




     "My song for ever shall record
     "Wf woof wof woof wooof woooof

     That terrible, that joyful hour;
     Woof woooooof, woof woooof woof;

     I give the glory to my God,
     W woof wof wooof wf wf Wof,

     His all the mercy and the power."
     Wof wof wof wooof wof wof wooof."







Nearly all joined in singing this hymn, which swelled high above the
Woooof wof woooof wf wooooof woof woof, wooof wooooof woof wooof wof

howling of the storm. A brief pause ensued; the preacher slowly turned
wooooof wf wof wooof. W wooof wooof woooof; wof woooooof woooof woooof

over the leaves of the Bible, and at last, folding his hand down upon
woof wof woooof wf wof Wooof, wof wf woof, wooooof wof woof woof woof

the proper page, said: "Beloved shipmates, clinch the last verse of the
wof woooof woof, woof: "Wooooof wooooooof, woooof wof woof wooof wf wof

first chapter of Jonah--'And God had prepared a great fish to swallow up
wooof wooooof wf Wooof--'Wof Wof wof woooooof w wooof woof wf wooooof wf

Jonah.'"
Wooof.'"




"Shipmates, this book, containing only four chapters--four yarns--is one
"Wooooooof, woof woof, woooooooof woof woof woooooof--woof wooof--wf wof

of the smallest strands in the mighty cable of the Scriptures. Yet what
wf wof woooooof wooooof wf wof woooof wooof wf wof Woooooooof. Wof woof

depths of the soul does Jonah's deep sealine sound! what a pregnant
woooof wf wof woof woof Wooof'w woof wooooof wooof! woof w woooooof

lesson to us is this prophet! What a noble thing is that canticle in the
woooof wf wf wf woof wooooof! Woof w wooof wooof wf woof woooooof wf wof

fish's belly! How billow-like and boisterously grand! We feel the floods
woof'w wooof! Wof woooof-woof wof woooooooooof wooof! Wf woof wof woooof

surging over us; we sound with him to the kelpy bottom of the waters;
wooooof woof wf; wf wooof woof wof wf wof wooof woooof wf wof woooof;

sea-weed and all the slime of the sea is about us! But WHAT is this
wof-woof wof wof wof wooof wf wof wof wf wooof wf! Wof WOOF wf woof

lesson that the book of Jonah teaches? Shipmates, it is a two-stranded
woooof woof wof woof wf Wooof wooooof? Wooooooof, wf wf w wof-woooooof

lesson; a lesson to us all as sinful men, and a lesson to me as a pilot
woooof; w woooof wf wf wof wf woooof wof, wof w woooof wf wf wf w wooof

of the living God. As sinful men, it is a lesson to us all, because it
wf wof woooof Wof. Wf woooof wof, wf wf w woooof wf wf wof, wooooof wf

is a story of the sin, hard-heartedness, suddenly awakened fears, the
wf w wooof wf wof wof, woof-wooooooooof, woooooof woooooof wooof, wof

swift punishment, repentance, prayers, and finally the deliverance and
wooof woooooooof, woooooooof, wooooof, wof wooooof wof wooooooooof wof

joy of Jonah. As with all sinners among men, the sin of this son of
wof wf Wooof. Wf woof wof wooooof wooof wof, wof wof wf woof wof wf

Amittai was in his wilful disobedience of the command of God--never
Wooooof wof wf wof woooof woooooooooof wf wof wooooof wf Wof--wooof

mind now what that command was, or how conveyed--which he found a hard
woof wof woof woof wooooof wof, wf wof woooooof--wooof wf wooof w woof

command. But all the things that God would have us do are hard for us to
wooooof. Wof wof wof woooof woof Wof wooof woof wf wf wof woof wof wf wf

do--remember that--and hence, he oftener commands us than endeavors to
wf--woooooof woof--wof wooof, wf wooooof woooooof wf woof wooooooof wf

persuade. And if we obey God, we must disobey ourselves; and it is in
woooooof. Wof wf wf woof Wof, wf woof wooooof wooooooof; wof wf wf wf

this disobeying ourselves, wherein the hardness of obeying God consists.
woof woooooooof wooooooof, wooooof wof woooooof wf wooooof Wof woooooof.




"With this sin of disobedience in him, Jonah still further flouts at
"Woof woof wof wf woooooooooof wf wof, Wooof wooof wooooof woooof wf

God, by seeking to flee from Him. He thinks that a ship made by men will
Wof, wf wooooof wf woof woof Wof. Wf woooof woof w woof woof wf wof woof

carry him into countries where God does not reign, but only the Captains
wooof wof woof wooooooof wooof Wof woof wof wooof, wof woof wof Woooooof

of this earth. He skulks about the wharves of Joppa, and seeks a ship
wf woof wooof. Wf woooof wooof wof wooooof wf Wooof, wof wooof w woof

that's bound for Tarshish. There lurks, perhaps, a hitherto unheeded
woof'w wooof wof Woooooof. Wooof wooof, wooooof, w woooooof woooooof

meaning here. By all accounts Tarshish could have been no other city
wooooof woof. Wf wof woooooof Woooooof wooof woof woof wf wooof woof

than the modern Cadiz. That's the opinion of learned men. And where is
woof wof woooof Wooof. Woof'w wof wooooof wf wooooof wof. Wof wooof wf

Cadiz, shipmates? Cadiz is in Spain; as far by water, from Joppa,
Wooof, wooooooof? Wooof wf wf Wooof; wf wof wf wooof, woof Wooof,

as Jonah could possibly have sailed in those ancient days, when the
wf Wooof wooof woooooof woof woooof wf wooof wooooof woof, woof wof

Atlantic was an almost unknown sea. Because Joppa, the modern Jaffa,
Woooooof wof wf woooof wooooof wof. Wooooof Wooof, wof woooof Wooof,

shipmates, is on the most easterly coast of the Mediterranean, the
wooooooof, wf wf wof woof woooooof wooof wf wof Wooooooooooof, wof

Syrian; and Tarshish or Cadiz more than two thousand miles to the
Woooof; wof Woooooof wf Wooof woof woof wof woooooof wooof wf wof

westward from that, just outside the Straits of Gibraltar. See ye
woooooof woof woof, woof wooooof wof Wooooof wf Wooooooof. Wof wf

not then, shipmates, that Jonah sought to flee world-wide from God?
wof woof, wooooooof, woof Wooof woooof wf woof wooof-woof woof Wof?

Miserable man! Oh! most contemptible and worthy of all scorn; with
Wooooooof wof! Wf! woof woooooooooof wof woooof wf wof wooof; woof

slouched hat and guilty eye, skulking from his God; prowling among the
woooooof wof wof woooof wof, woooooof woof wof Wof; woooooof wooof wof

shipping like a vile burglar hastening to cross the seas. So disordered,
woooooof woof w woof wooooof wooooooof wf wooof wof woof. Wf woooooooof,

self-condemning is his look, that had there been policemen in those
woof-woooooooof wf wof woof, woof wof wooof woof wooooooof wf wooof

days, Jonah, on the mere suspicion of something wrong, had been arrested
woof, Wooof, wf wof woof wooooooof wf wooooooof wooof, wof woof woooooof

ere he touched a deck. How plainly he's a fugitive! no baggage, not a
wof wf wooooof w woof. Wof wooooof wf'w w woooooof! wf wooooof, wof w

hat-box, valise, or carpet-bag,--no friends accompany him to the wharf
wof-wof, woooof, wf woooof-wof,--wf wooooof wooooooof wof wf wof wooof

with their adieux. At last, after much dodging search, he finds the
woof wooof woooof. Wf woof, wooof woof wooooof woooof, wf wooof wof

Tarshish ship receiving the last items of her cargo; and as he steps on
Woooooof woof wooooooof wof woof wooof wf wof wooof; wof wf wf wooof wf

board to see its Captain in the cabin, all the sailors for the moment
wooof wf wof wof Wooooof wf wof wooof, wof wof wooooof wof wof woooof

desist from hoisting in the goods, to mark the stranger's evil eye.
woooof woof woooooof wf wof wooof, wf woof wof woooooof'w woof wof.

Jonah sees this; but in vain he tries to look all ease and confidence;
Wooof woof woof; wof wf woof wf wooof wf woof wof woof wof woooooooof;

in vain essays his wretched smile. Strong intuitions of the man assure
wf woof woooof wof woooooof wooof. Woooof woooooooof wf wof wof woooof

the mariners he can be no innocent. In their gamesome but still serious
wof woooooof wf wof wf wf woooooof. Wf wooof woooooof wof wooof wooooof

way, one whispers to the other--"Jack, he's robbed a widow;" or, "Joe,
wof, wof woooooof wf wof wooof--"Woof, wf'w woooof w wooof;" wf, "Wof,

do you mark him; he's a bigamist;" or, "Harry lad, I guess he's the
wf wof woof wof; wf'w w woooooof;" wf, "Wooof wof, W wooof wf'w wof

adulterer that broke jail in old Gomorrah, or belike, one of the missing
wooooooof woof wooof woof wf wof Woooooof, wf woooof, wof wf wof wooooof

murderers from Sodom." Another runs to read the bill that's stuck
wooooooof woof Wooof." Wooooof woof wf woof wof woof woof'w wooof

against the spile upon the wharf to which the ship is moored, offering
wooooof wof wooof woof wof wooof wf wooof wof woof wf woooof, woooooof

five hundred gold coins for the apprehension of a parricide, and
woof wooooof woof wooof wof wof woooooooooof wf w wooooooof, wof

containing a description of his person. He reads, and looks from Jonah
woooooooof w wooooooooof wf wof woooof. Wf wooof, wof wooof woof Wooof

to the bill; while all his sympathetic shipmates now crowd round Jonah,
wf wof woof; wooof wof wof wooooooooof wooooooof wof wooof wooof Wooof,

prepared to lay their hands upon him. Frighted Jonah trembles, and
woooooof wf wof wooof wooof woof wof. Woooooof Wooof woooooof, wof

summoning all his boldness to his face, only looks so much the more a
wooooooof wof wof woooooof wf wof woof, woof wooof wf woof wof woof w

coward. He will not confess himself suspected; but that itself is strong
woooof. Wf woof wof wooooof wooooof wooooooof; wof woof woooof wf woooof

suspicion. So he makes the best of it; and when the sailors find him
wooooooof. Wf wf wooof wof woof wf wf; wof woof wof wooooof woof wof

not to be the man that is advertised, they let him pass, and he descends
wof wf wf wof wof woof wf woooooooof, woof wof wof woof, wof wf woooooof

into the cabin.
woof wof wooof.




"'Who's there?' cries the Captain at his busy desk, hurriedly making
"'Wof'w wooof?' wooof wof Wooooof wf wof woof woof, wooooooof woooof

out his papers for the Customs--'Who's there?' Oh! how that harmless
wof wof woooof wof wof Wooooof--'Wof'w wooof?' Wf! wof woof woooooof

question mangles Jonah! For the instant he almost turns to flee again.
woooooof wooooof Wooof! Wof wof wooooof wf woooof wooof wf woof wooof.

But he rallies. 'I seek a passage in this ship to Tarshish; how soon
Wof wf wooooof. 'W woof w wooooof wf woof woof wf Woooooof; wof woof

sail ye, sir?' Thus far the busy Captain had not looked up to Jonah,
woof wf, wof?' Woof wof wof woof Wooooof wof wof woooof wf wf Wooof,

though the man now stands before him; but no sooner does he hear that
woooof wof wof wof woooof woooof wof; wof wf woooof woof wf woof woof

hollow voice, than he darts a scrutinizing glance. 'We sail with the
woooof wooof, woof wf wooof w woooooooooof woooof. 'Wf woof woof wof

next coming tide,' at last he slowly answered, still intently eyeing
woof woooof woof,' wf woof wf woooof woooooof, wooof woooooof woooof

him. 'No sooner, sir?'--'Soon enough for any honest man that goes a
wof. 'Wf woooof, wof?'--'Woof woooof wof wof woooof wof woof woof w

passenger.' Ha! Jonah, that's another stab. But he swiftly calls away
wooooooof.' Wf! Wooof, woof'w wooooof woof. Wof wf wooooof wooof woof

the Captain from that scent. 'I'll sail with ye,'--he says,--'the
wof Wooooof woof woof wooof. 'W'wf woof woof wf,'--wf woof,--'wof

passage money how much is that?--I'll pay now.' For it is particularly
wooooof wooof wof woof wf woof?--W'wf wof wof.' Wof wf wf woooooooooof

written, shipmates, as if it were a thing not to be overlooked in this
wooooof, wooooooof, wf wf wf woof w wooof wof wf wf woooooooof wf woof

history, 'that he paid the fare thereof' ere the craft did sail. And
wooooof, 'woof wf woof wof woof wooooof' wof wof wooof wof woof. Wof

taken with the context, this is full of meaning.
wooof woof wof wooooof, woof wf woof wf wooooof.




"Now Jonah's Captain, shipmates, was one whose discernment detects crime
"Wof Wooof'w Wooooof, wooooooof, wof wof wooof wooooooooof wooooof wooof

in any, but whose cupidity exposes it only in the penniless. In this
wf wof, wof wooof woooooof wooooof wf woof wf wof wooooooof. Wf woof

world, shipmates, sin that pays its way can travel freely, and without
wooof, wooooooof, wof woof woof wof wof wof woooof woooof, wof wooooof

a passport; whereas Virtue, if a pauper, is stopped at all frontiers.
w woooooof; wooooof Woooof, wf w woooof, wf wooooof wf wof wooooooof.

So Jonah's Captain prepares to test the length of Jonah's purse, ere he
Wf Wooof'w Wooooof woooooof wf woof wof woooof wf Wooof'w wooof, wof wf

judge him openly. He charges him thrice the usual sum; and it's assented
wooof wof woooof. Wf wooooof wof woooof wof wooof wof; wof wf'w woooooof

to. Then the Captain knows that Jonah is a fugitive; but at the same
wf. Woof wof Wooooof wooof woof Wooof wf w woooooof; wof wf wof woof

time resolves to help a flight that paves its rear with gold. Yet when
woof woooooof wf woof w woooof woof wooof wof woof woof woof. Wof woof

Jonah fairly takes out his purse, prudent suspicions still molest the
Wooof woooof wooof wof wof wooof, wooooof woooooooof wooof woooof wof

Captain. He rings every coin to find a counterfeit. Not a forger, any
Wooooof. Wf wooof wooof woof wf woof w wooooooooof. Wof w woooof, wof

way, he mutters; and Jonah is put down for his passage. 'Point out my
wof, wf wooooof; wof Wooof wf wof woof wof wof wooooof. 'Wooof wof wf

state-room, Sir,' says Jonah now, 'I'm travel-weary; I need sleep.'
wooof-woof, Wof,' woof Wooof wof, 'W'w woooof-wooof; W woof wooof.'

'Thou lookest like it,' says the Captain, 'there's thy room.' Jonah
'Woof wooooof woof wf,' woof wof Wooooof, 'wooof'w wof woof.' Wooof

enters, and would lock the door, but the lock contains no key. Hearing
woooof, wof wooof woof wof woof, wof wof woof woooooof wf wof. Wooooof

him foolishly fumbling there, the Captain laughs lowly to himself, and
wof wooooooof woooooof wooof, wof Wooooof woooof wooof wf wooooof, wof

mutters something about the doors of convicts' cells being never allowed
wooooof wooooooof wooof wof wooof wf woooooof' wooof wooof wooof wooooof

to be locked within. All dressed and dusty as he is, Jonah throws
wf wf woooof woooof. Wof wooooof wof wooof wf wf wf, Wooof woooof

himself into his berth, and finds the little state-room ceiling almost
wooooof woof wof wooof, wof wooof wof woooof wooof-woof wooooof woooof

resting on his forehead. The air is close, and Jonah gasps. Then, in
wooooof wf wof woooooof. Wof wof wf wooof, wof Wooof wooof. Woof, wf

that contracted hole, sunk, too, beneath the ship's water-line, Jonah
woof woooooooof woof, woof, wof, wooooof wof woof'w wooof-woof, Wooof

feels the heralding presentiment of that stifling hour, when the whale
wooof wof wooooooof woooooooooof wf woof woooooof woof, woof wof wooof

shall hold him in the smallest of his bowels' wards.
wooof woof wof wf wof woooooof wf wof woooof' wooof.




"Screwed at its axis against the side, a swinging lamp slightly
"Wooooof wf wof woof wooooof wof woof, w woooooof woof woooooof

oscillates in Jonah's room; and the ship, heeling over towards the wharf
woooooooof wf Wooof'w woof; wof wof woof, wooooof woof wooooof wof wooof

with the weight of the last bales received, the lamp, flame and all,
woof wof woooof wf wof woof wooof woooooof, wof woof, wooof wof wof,

though in slight motion, still maintains a permanent obliquity with
woooof wf woooof woooof, wooof wooooooof w wooooooof wooooooof woof

reference to the room; though, in truth, infallibly straight itself, it
wooooooof wf wof woof; woooof, wf wooof, woooooooof woooooof woooof, wf

but made obvious the false, lying levels among which it hung. The lamp
wof woof wooooof wof wooof, wooof woooof wooof wooof wf woof. Wof woof

alarms and frightens Jonah; as lying in his berth his tormented eyes
woooof wof wooooooof Wooof; wf wooof wf wof wooof wof wooooooof woof

roll round the place, and this thus far successful fugitive finds no
woof wooof wof wooof, wof woof woof wof woooooooof woooooof wooof wf

refuge for his restless glance. But that contradiction in the lamp more
woooof wof wof woooooof woooof. Wof woof wooooooooooof wf wof woof woof

and more appals him. The floor, the ceiling, and the side, are all awry.
wof woof woooof wof. Wof wooof, wof wooooof, wof wof woof, wof wof woof.

'Oh! so my conscience hangs in me!' he groans, 'straight upwards, so it
'Wf! wf wf woooooooof wooof wf wf!' wf woooof, 'woooooof wooooof, wf wf

burns; but the chambers of my soul are all in crookedness!'
wooof; wof wof woooooof wf wf woof wof wof wf wooooooooof!'




"Like one who after a night of drunken revelry hies to his bed, still
"Woof wof wof wooof w wooof wf wooooof wooooof woof wf wof wof, wooof

reeling, but with conscience yet pricking him, as the plungings of the
wooooof, wof woof woooooooof wof woooooof wof, wf wof wooooooof wf wof

Roman race-horse but so much the more strike his steel tags into him; as
Wooof woof-wooof wof wf woof wof woof woooof wof wooof woof woof wof; wf

one who in that miserable plight still turns and turns in giddy anguish,
wof wof wf woof wooooooof woooof wooof wooof wof wooof wf wooof wooooof,

praying God for annihilation until the fit be passed; and at last amid
wooooof Wof wof woooooooooof wooof wof wof wf woooof; wof wf woof woof

the whirl of woe he feels, a deep stupor steals over him, as over the
wof wooof wf wof wf wooof, w woof woooof woooof woof wof, wf woof wof

man who bleeds to death, for conscience is the wound, and there's naught
wof wof woooof wf wooof, wof woooooooof wf wof wooof, wof wooof'w woooof

to staunch it; so, after sore wrestlings in his berth, Jonah's prodigy
wf wooooof wf; wf, wooof woof woooooooof wf wof wooof, Wooof'w wooooof

of ponderous misery drags him drowning down to sleep.
wf wooooooof woooof wooof wof woooooof woof wf wooof.




"And now the time of tide has come; the ship casts off her cables; and
"Wof wof wof woof wf woof wof woof; wof woof wooof wof wof woooof; wof

from the deserted wharf the uncheered ship for Tarshish, all careening,
woof wof woooooof wooof wof wooooooof woof wof Woooooof, wof wooooooof,

glides to sea. That ship, my friends, was the first of recorded
woooof wf wof. Woof woof, wf wooooof, wof wof wooof wf woooooof

smugglers! the contraband was Jonah. But the sea rebels; he will not
wooooooof! wof woooooooof wof Wooof. Wof wof wof woooof; wf woof wof

bear the wicked burden. A dreadful storm comes on, the ship is like to
woof wof woooof woooof. W woooooof wooof wooof wf, wof woof wf woof wf

break. But now when the boatswain calls all hands to lighten her;
wooof. Wof wof woof wof wooooooof wooof wof wooof wf wooooof wof;

when boxes, bales, and jars are clattering overboard; when the wind
woof wooof, wooof, wof woof wof woooooooof wooooooof; woof wof woof

is shrieking, and the men are yelling, and every plank thunders with
wf wooooooof, wof wof wof wof wooooof, wof wooof wooof woooooof woof

trampling feet right over Jonah's head; in all this raging tumult, Jonah
wooooooof woof wooof woof Wooof'w woof; wf wof woof woooof woooof, Wooof

sleeps his hideous sleep. He sees no black sky and raging sea, feels not
woooof wof wooooof wooof. Wf woof wf wooof wof wof woooof wof, wooof wof

the reeling timbers, and little hears he or heeds he the far rush of the
wof wooooof wooooof, wof woooof wooof wf wf wooof wf wof wof woof wf wof

mighty whale, which even now with open mouth is cleaving the seas after
woooof wooof, wooof woof wof woof woof wooof wf woooooof wof woof wooof

him. Aye, shipmates, Jonah was gone down into the sides of the ship--a
wof. Wof, wooooooof, Wooof wof woof woof woof wof wooof wf wof woof--w

berth in the cabin as I have taken it, and was fast asleep. But the
wooof wf wof wooof wf W woof wooof wf, wof wof woof woooof. Wof wof

frightened master comes to him, and shrieks in his dead ear, 'What
woooooooof woooof wooof wf wof, wof wooooof wf wof woof wof, 'Woof

meanest thou, O, sleeper! arise!' Startled from his lethargy by that
wooooof woof, W, wooooof! wooof!' Woooooof woof wof woooooof wf woof

direful cry, Jonah staggers to his feet, and stumbling to the deck,
wooooof wof, Wooof woooooof wf wof woof, wof wooooooof wf wof woof,

grasps a shroud, to look out upon the sea. But at that moment he is
woooof w woooof, wf woof wof woof wof wof. Wof wf woof woooof wf wf

sprung upon by a panther billow leaping over the bulwarks. Wave after
woooof woof wf w wooooof woooof wooooof woof wof woooooof. Woof wooof

wave thus leaps into the ship, and finding no speedy vent runs roaring
woof woof wooof woof wof woof, wof wooooof wf woooof woof woof wooooof

fore and aft, till the mariners come nigh to drowning while yet afloat.
woof wof wof, woof wof woooooof woof woof wf woooooof wooof wof woooof.

And ever, as the white moon shows her affrighted face from the steep
Wof woof, wf wof wooof woof wooof wof woooooooof woof woof wof wooof

gullies in the blackness overhead, aghast Jonah sees the rearing
wooooof wf wof wooooooof woooooof, woooof Wooof woof wof wooooof

bowsprit pointing high upward, but soon beat downward again towards the
woooooof woooooof woof woooof, wof woof woof woooooof wooof wooooof wof

tormented deep.
wooooooof woof.




"Terrors upon terrors run shouting through his soul. In all his cringing
"Wooooof woof wooooof wof woooooof wooooof wof woof. Wf wof wof woooooof

attitudes, the God-fugitive is now too plainly known. The sailors mark
wooooooof, wof Wof-woooooof wf wof wof wooooof wooof. Wof wooooof woof

him; more and more certain grow their suspicions of him, and at last,
wof; woof wof woof wooooof woof wooof woooooooof wf wof, wof wf woof,

fully to test the truth, by referring the whole matter to high Heaven,
wooof wf woof wof wooof, wf wooooooof wof wooof woooof wf woof Woooof,

they fall to casting lots, to see for whose cause this great tempest was
woof woof wf wooooof woof, wf wof wof wooof wooof woof wooof wooooof wof

upon them. The lot is Jonah's; that discovered, then how furiously they
woof woof. Wof wof wf Wooof'w; woof woooooooof, woof wof wooooooof woof

mob him with their questions. 'What is thine occupation? Whence comest
wof wof woof wooof wooooooof. 'Woof wf wooof woooooooof? Woooof woooof

thou? Thy country? What people? But mark now, my shipmates, the behavior
woof? Wof wooooof? Woof woooof? Wof woof wof, wf wooooooof, wof woooooof

of poor Jonah. The eager mariners but ask him who he is, and where
wf woof Wooof. Wof wooof woooooof wof wof wof wof wf wf, wof wooof

from; whereas, they not only receive an answer to those questions,
woof; wooooof, woof wof woof wooooof wf woooof wf wooof wooooooof,

but likewise another answer to a question not put by them, but the
wof woooooof wooooof woooof wf w woooooof wof wof wf woof, wof wof

unsolicited answer is forced from Jonah by the hard hand of God that is
wooooooooof woooof wf woooof woof Wooof wf wof woof woof wf Wof woof wf

upon him.
woof wof.




"'I am a Hebrew,' he cries--and then--'I fear the Lord the God of Heaven
"'W wf w Woooof,' wf wooof--wof woof--'W woof wof Woof wof Wof wf Woooof

who hath made the sea and the dry land!' Fear him, O Jonah? Aye, well
wof woof woof wof wof wof wof wof woof!' Woof wof, W Wooof? Wof, woof

mightest thou fear the Lord God THEN! Straightway, he now goes on to
woooooof woof woof wof Woof Wof WOOF! Wooooooooof, wf wof woof wf wf

make a full confession; whereupon the mariners became more and more
woof w woof woooooooof; wooooooof wof woooooof woooof woof wof woof

appalled, but still are pitiful. For when Jonah, not yet supplicating
woooooof, wof wooof wof wooooof. Wof woof Wooof, wof wof woooooooooof

God for mercy, since he but too well knew the darkness of his
Wof wof wooof, wooof wf wof wof woof woof wof woooooof wf wof

deserts,--when wretched Jonah cries out to them to take him and cast him
wooooof,--woof woooooof Wooof wooof wof wf woof wf woof wof wof woof wof

forth into the sea, for he knew that for HIS sake this great tempest
wooof woof wof wof, wof wf woof woof wof WOF woof woof wooof wooooof

was upon them; they mercifully turn from him, and seek by other means to
wof woof woof; woof woooooooof woof woof wof, wof woof wf wooof wooof wf

save the ship. But all in vain; the indignant gale howls louder;
woof wof woof. Wof wof wf woof; wof wooooooof woof wooof woooof;

then, with one hand raised invokingly to God, with the other they not
woof, woof wof woof woooof woooooooof wf Wof, woof wof wooof woof wof

unreluctantly lay hold of Jonah.
wooooooooooof wof woof wf Wooof.




"And now behold Jonah taken up as an anchor and dropped into the sea;
"Wof wof woooof Wooof wooof wf wf wf woooof wof wooooof woof wof wof;

when instantly an oily calmness floats out from the east, and the sea
woof wooooooof wf woof woooooof woooof wof woof wof woof, wof wof wof

is still, as Jonah carries down the gale with him, leaving smooth
wf wooof, wf Wooof wooooof woof wof woof woof wof, wooooof woooof

water behind. He goes down in the whirling heart of such a masterless
wooof woooof. Wf woof woof wf wof woooooof wooof wf woof w woooooooof

commotion that he scarce heeds the moment when he drops seething into
wooooooof woof wf woooof wooof wof woooof woof wf wooof woooooof woof

the yawning jaws awaiting him; and the whale shoots-to all his ivory
wof wooooof woof woooooof wof; wof wof wooof woooof-wf wof wof wooof

teeth, like so many white bolts, upon his prison. Then Jonah prayed unto
wooof, woof wf woof wooof wooof, woof wof woooof. Woof Wooof woooof woof

the Lord out of the fish's belly. But observe his prayer, and learn a
wof Woof wof wf wof woof'w wooof. Wof wooooof wof woooof, wof wooof w

weighty lesson. For sinful as he is, Jonah does not weep and wail for
wooooof woooof. Wof woooof wf wf wf, Wooof woof wof woof wof woof wof

direct deliverance. He feels that his dreadful punishment is just. He
woooof wooooooooof. Wf wooof woof wof woooooof woooooooof wf woof. Wf

leaves all his deliverance to God, contenting himself with this, that
woooof wof wof wooooooooof wf Wof, woooooooof wooooof woof woof, woof

spite of all his pains and pangs, he will still look towards His holy
wooof wf wof wof wooof wof wooof, wf woof wooof woof wooooof Wof woof

temple. And here, shipmates, is true and faithful repentance; not
woooof. Wof woof, wooooooof, wf woof wof woooooof woooooooof; wof

clamorous for pardon, but grateful for punishment. And how pleasing to
wooooooof wof woooof, wof woooooof wof woooooooof. Wof wof woooooof wf

God was this conduct in Jonah, is shown in the eventual deliverance of
Wof wof woof wooooof wf Wooof, wf wooof wf wof woooooof wooooooooof wf

him from the sea and the whale. Shipmates, I do not place Jonah before
wof woof wof wof wof wof wooof. Wooooooof, W wf wof wooof Wooof woooof

you to be copied for his sin but I do place him before you as a model
wof wf wf woooof wof wof wof wof W wf wooof wof woooof wof wf w wooof

for repentance. Sin not; but if you do, take heed to repent of it like
wof woooooooof. Wof wof; wof wf wof wf, woof woof wf woooof wf wf woof

Jonah."
Wooof."




While he was speaking these words, the howling of the shrieking,
Wooof wf wof woooooof wooof wooof, wof wooooof wf wof wooooooof,

slanting storm without seemed to add new power to the preacher, who,
woooooof wooof wooooof woooof wf wof wof wooof wf wof woooooof, wof,

when describing Jonah's sea-storm, seemed tossed by a storm himself.
woof woooooooof Wooof'w wof-wooof, woooof woooof wf w wooof wooooof.

His deep chest heaved as with a ground-swell; his tossed arms seemed the
Wof woof wooof woooof wf woof w woooof-wooof; wof woooof woof woooof wof

warring elements at work; and the thunders that rolled away from off his
wooooof woooooof wf woof; wof wof woooooof woof woooof woof woof wof wof

swarthy brow, and the light leaping from his eye, made all his simple
wooooof woof, wof wof wooof wooooof woof wof wof, woof wof wof woooof

hearers look on him with a quick fear that was strange to them.
wooooof woof wf wof woof w wooof woof woof wof wooooof wf woof.




There now came a lull in his look, as he silently turned over the leaves
Wooof wof woof w woof wf wof woof, wf wf woooooof woooof woof wof woooof

of the Book once more; and, at last, standing motionless, with closed
wf wof Woof woof woof; wof, wf woof, woooooof woooooooof, woof woooof

eyes, for the moment, seemed communing with God and himself.
woof, wof wof woooof, woooof wooooooof woof Wof wof wooooof.




But again he leaned over towards the people, and bowing his head lowly,
Wof wooof wf woooof woof wooooof wof woooof, wof woooof wof woof wooof,

with an aspect of the deepest yet manliest humility, he spake these
woof wf woooof wf wof wooooof wof woooooof woooooof, wf wooof wooof

words:
wooof:




"Shipmates, God has laid but one hand upon you; both his hands press
"Wooooooof, Wof wof woof wof wof woof woof wof; woof wof wooof wooof

upon me. I have read ye by what murky light may be mine the lesson that
woof wf. W woof woof wf wf woof wooof wooof wof wf woof wof woooof woof

Jonah teaches to all sinners; and therefore to ye, and still more to me,
Wooof wooooof wf wof wooooof; wof wooooooof wf wf, wof wooof woof wf wf,

for I am a greater sinner than ye. And now how gladly would I come down
wof W wf w wooooof woooof woof wf. Wof wof wof woooof wooof W woof woof

from this mast-head and sit on the hatches there where you sit, and
woof woof woof-woof wof wof wf wof wooooof wooof wooof wof wof, wof

listen as you listen, while some one of you reads ME that other and more
woooof wf wof woooof, wooof woof wof wf wof wooof WF woof wooof wof woof

awful lesson which Jonah teaches to ME, as a pilot of the living God.
wooof woooof wooof Wooof wooooof wf WF, wf w wooof wf wof woooof Wof.

How being an anointed pilot-prophet, or speaker of true things, and
Wof wooof wf woooooof wooof-wooooof, wf wooooof wf woof woooof, wof

bidden by the Lord to sound those unwelcome truths in the ears of a
woooof wf wof Woof wf wooof wooof wooooooof woooof wf wof woof wf w

wicked Nineveh, Jonah, appalled at the hostility he should raise, fled
woooof Wooooof, Wooof, woooooof wf wof wooooooof wf woooof wooof, woof

from his mission, and sought to escape his duty and his God by taking
woof wof wooooof, wof woooof wf woooof wof woof wof wof Wof wf woooof

ship at Joppa. But God is everywhere; Tarshish he never reached. As we
woof wf Wooof. Wof Wof wf woooooooof; Woooooof wf wooof wooooof. Wf wf

have seen, God came upon him in the whale, and swallowed him down to
woof woof, Wof woof woof wof wf wof wooof, wof wooooooof wof woof wf

living gulfs of doom, and with swift slantings tore him along 'into the
woooof wooof wf woof, wof woof wooof wooooooof woof wof wooof 'woof wof

midst of the seas,' where the eddying depths sucked him ten thousand
wooof wf wof woof,' wooof wof wooooof woooof woooof wof wof woooooof

fathoms down, and 'the weeds were wrapped about his head,' and all the
wooooof woof, wof 'wof wooof woof wooooof wooof wof woof,' wof wof wof

watery world of woe bowled over him. Yet even then beyond the reach of
woooof wooof wf wof woooof woof wof. Wof woof woof woooof wof wooof wf

any plummet--'out of the belly of hell'--when the whale grounded upon
wof wooooof--'wof wf wof wooof wf woof'--woof wof wooof woooooof woof

the ocean's utmost bones, even then, God heard the engulphed, repenting
wof wooof'w woooof wooof, woof woof, Wof wooof wof wooooooof, wooooooof

prophet when he cried. Then God spake unto the fish; and from the
wooooof woof wf wooof. Woof Wof wooof woof wof woof; wof woof wof

shuddering cold and blackness of the sea, the whale came breeching
woooooooof woof wof wooooooof wf wof wof, wof wooof woof wooooooof

up towards the warm and pleasant sun, and all the delights of air and
wf wooooof wof woof wof woooooof wof, wof wof wof woooooof wf wof wof

earth; and 'vomited out Jonah upon the dry land;' when the word of the
wooof; wof 'wooooof wof Wooof woof wof wof woof;' woof wof woof wf wof

Lord came a second time; and Jonah, bruised and beaten--his ears, like
Woof woof w woooof woof; wof Wooof, wooooof wof woooof--wof woof, woof

two sea-shells, still multitudinously murmuring of the ocean--Jonah
wof wof-woooof, wooof wooooooooooooof wooooooof wf wof wooof--Wooof

did the Almighty's bidding. And what was that, shipmates? To preach the
wof wof Woooooof'w wooooof. Wof woof wof woof, wooooooof? Wf woooof wof

Truth to the face of Falsehood! That was it!
Wooof wf wof woof wf Wooooooof! Woof wof wf!




"This, shipmates, this is that other lesson; and woe to that pilot of
"Woof, wooooooof, woof wf woof wooof woooof; wof wof wf woof wooof wf

the living God who slights it. Woe to him whom this world charms from
wof woooof Wof wof wooooof wf. Wof wf wof woof woof wooof woooof woof

Gospel duty! Woe to him who seeks to pour oil upon the waters when God
Woooof woof! Wof wf wof wof wooof wf woof wof woof wof woooof woof Wof

has brewed them into a gale! Woe to him who seeks to please rather than
wof woooof woof woof w woof! Wof wf wof wof wooof wf woooof woooof woof

to appal! Woe to him whose good name is more to him than goodness! Woe
wf wooof! Wof wf wof wooof woof woof wf woof wf wof woof woooooof! Wof

to him who, in this world, courts not dishonour! Woe to him who would
wf wof wof, wf woof wooof, woooof wof wooooooof! Wof wf wof wof wooof

not be true, even though to be false were salvation! Yea, woe to him
wof wf woof, woof woooof wf wf wooof woof wooooooof! Wof, wof wf wof

who, as the great Pilot Paul has it, while preaching to others is
wof, wf wof wooof Wooof Woof wof wf, wooof wooooooof wf woooof wf

himself a castaway!"
wooooof w woooooof!"




He dropped and fell away from himself for a moment; then lifting his
Wf wooooof wof woof woof woof wooooof wof w woooof; woof wooooof wof

face to them again, showed a deep joy in his eyes, as he cried out with
woof wf woof wooof, woooof w woof wof wf wof woof, wf wf wooof wof woof

a heavenly enthusiasm,--"But oh! shipmates! on the starboard hand of
w woooooof woooooooof,--"Wof wf! wooooooof! wf wof wooooooof woof wf

every woe, there is a sure delight; and higher the top of that delight,
wooof wof, wooof wf w woof wooooof; wof woooof wof wof wf woof wooooof,

than the bottom of the woe is deep. Is not the main-truck higher than
woof wof woooof wf wof wof wf woof. Wf wof wof woof-wooof woooof woof

the kelson is low? Delight is to him--a far, far upward, and inward
wof woooof wf wof? Wooooof wf wf wof--w wof, wof woooof, wof woooof

delight--who against the proud gods and commodores of this earth, ever
wooooof--wof wooooof wof wooof woof wof woooooooof wf woof wooof, woof

stands forth his own inexorable self. Delight is to him whose strong
woooof wooof wof wof woooooooof woof. Wooooof wf wf wof wooof woooof

arms yet support him, when the ship of this base treacherous world has
woof wof wooooof wof, woof wof woof wf woof woof wooooooooof wooof wof

gone down beneath him. Delight is to him, who gives no quarter in the
woof woof wooooof wof. Wooooof wf wf wof, wof wooof wf wooooof wf wof

truth, and kills, burns, and destroys all sin though he pluck it out
wooof, wof wooof, wooof, wof woooooof wof wof woooof wf wooof wf wof

from under the robes of Senators and Judges. Delight,--top-gallant
woof wooof wof wooof wf Woooooof wof Woooof. Wooooof,--wof-wooooof

delight is to him, who acknowledges no law or lord, but the Lord his
wooooof wf wf wof, wof woooooooooof wf wof wf woof, wof wof Woof wof

God, and is only a patriot to heaven. Delight is to him, whom all the
Wof, wof wf woof w wooooof wf woooof. Wooooof wf wf wof, woof wof wof

waves of the billows of the seas of the boisterous mob can never shake
wooof wf wof wooooof wf wof woof wf wof woooooooof wof wof wooof wooof

from this sure Keel of the Ages. And eternal delight and deliciousness
woof woof woof Woof wf wof Woof. Wof wooooof wooooof wof wooooooooooof

will be his, who coming to lay him down, can say with his final
woof wf wof, wof woooof wf wof wof woof, wof wof woof wof wooof

breath--O Father!--chiefly known to me by Thy rod--mortal or immortal,
woooof--W Woooof!--wooooof wooof wf wf wf Wof wof--woooof wf woooooof,

here I die. I have striven to be Thine, more than to be this world's, or
woof W wof. W woof wooooof wf wf Wooof, woof woof wf wf woof wooof'w, wf

mine own. Yet this is nothing: I leave eternity to Thee; for what is man
woof wof. Wof woof wf wooooof: W wooof woooooof wf Woof; wof woof wf wof

that he should live out the lifetime of his God?"
woof wf woooof woof wof wof woooooof wf wof Wof?"




He said no more, but slowly waving a benediction, covered his face with
Wf woof wf woof, wof woooof woooof w wooooooooof, wooooof wof woof woof

his hands, and so remained kneeling, till all the people had departed,
wof wooof, wof wf woooooof woooooof, woof wof wof woooof wof woooooof,

and he was left alone in the place.
wof wf wof woof wooof wf wof wooof.










CHAPTER 10. A Bosom Friend.
WOOOOOF wf. W Wooof Woooof.







Returning to the Spouter-Inn from the Chapel, I found Queequeg there
Wooooooof wf wof Wooooof-Wof woof wof Woooof, W wooof Woooooof wooof

quite alone; he having left the Chapel before the benediction some time.
wooof wooof; wf woooof woof wof Woooof woooof wof wooooooooof woof woof.

He was sitting on a bench before the fire, with his feet on the stove
Wf wof wooooof wf w wooof woooof wof woof, woof wof woof wf wof wooof

hearth, and in one hand was holding close up to his face that little
woooof, wof wf wof woof wof wooooof wooof wf wf wof woof woof woooof

negro idol of his; peering hard into its face, and with a jack-knife
wooof woof wf wof; wooooof woof woof wof woof, wof woof w woof-wooof

gently whittling away at its nose, meanwhile humming to himself in his
woooof wooooooof woof wf wof woof, wooooooof wooooof wf wooooof wf wof

heathenish way.
woooooooof wof.




But being now interrupted, he put up the image; and pretty soon, going
Wof wooof wof wooooooooof, wf wof wf wof wooof; wof woooof woof, wooof

to the table, took up a large book there, and placing it on his lap
wf wof wooof, woof wf w wooof woof wooof, wof wooooof wf wf wof wof

began counting the pages with deliberate regularity; at every fiftieth
wooof woooooof wof wooof woof woooooooof woooooooof; wf wooof woooooof

page--as I fancied--stopping a moment, looking vacantly around him, and
woof--wf W wooooof--woooooof w woooof, wooooof woooooof woooof wof, wof

giving utterance to a long-drawn gurgling whistle of astonishment. He
woooof wooooooof wf w woof-wooof woooooof wooooof wf woooooooooof. Wf

would then begin again at the next fifty; seeming to commence at number
wooof woof wooof wooof wf wof woof wooof; wooooof wf woooooof wf woooof

one each time, as though he could not count more than fifty, and it was
wof woof woof, wf woooof wf wooof wof wooof woof woof wooof, wof wf wof

only by such a large number of fifties being found together, that his
woof wf woof w wooof woooof wf wooooof wooof wooof woooooof, woof wof

astonishment at the multitude of pages was excited.
woooooooooof wf wof wooooooof wf wooof wof wooooof.




With much interest I sat watching him. Savage though he was, and
Woof woof woooooof W wof woooooof wof. Woooof woooof wf wof, wof

hideously marred about the face--at least to my taste--his countenance
wooooooof woooof wooof wof woof--wf wooof wf wf wooof--wof wooooooooof

yet had a something in it which was by no means disagreeable. You cannot
wof wof w wooooooof wf wf wooof wof wf wf wooof woooooooooof. Wof woooof

hide the soul. Through all his unearthly tattooings, I thought I saw
woof wof woof. Wooooof wof wof wooooooof woooooooof, W wooooof W wof

the traces of a simple honest heart; and in his large, deep eyes,
wof woooof wf w woooof woooof wooof; wof wf wof wooof, woof woof,

fiery black and bold, there seemed tokens of a spirit that would dare a
wooof wooof wof woof, wooof woooof woooof wf w woooof woof wooof woof w

thousand devils. And besides all this, there was a certain lofty bearing
woooooof woooof. Wof wooooof wof woof, wooof wof w wooooof wooof wooooof

about the Pagan, which even his uncouthness could not altogether maim.
wooof wof Wooof, wooof woof wof wooooooooof wooof wof woooooooof woof.

He looked like a man who had never cringed and never had had a creditor.
Wf woooof woof w wof wof wof wooof wooooof wof wooof wof wof w woooooof.

Whether it was, too, that his head being shaved, his forehead was drawn
Wooooof wf wof, wof, woof wof woof wooof woooof, wof woooooof wof wooof

out in freer and brighter relief, and looked more expansive than it
wof wf wooof wof woooooof woooof, wof woooof woof wooooooof woof wf

otherwise would, this I will not venture to decide; but certain it was
wooooooof wooof, woof W woof wof wooooof wf woooof; wof wooooof wf wof

his head was phrenologically an excellent one. It may seem ridiculous,
wof woof wof wooooooooooooof wf wooooooof wof. Wf wof woof woooooooof,

but it reminded me of General Washington's head, as seen in the popular
wof wf woooooof wf wf Wooooof Woooooooof'w woof, wf woof wf wof wooooof

busts of him. It had the same long regularly graded retreating slope
wooof wf wof. Wf wof wof woof woof wooooooof woooof woooooooof wooof

from above the brows, which were likewise very projecting, like two
woof wooof wof wooof, wooof woof woooooof woof woooooooof, woof wof

long promontories thickly wooded on top. Queequeg was George Washington
woof woooooooooof wooooof woooof wf wof. Woooooof wof Woooof Woooooooof

cannibalistically developed.
wooooooooooooooof wooooooof.




Whilst I was thus closely scanning him, half-pretending meanwhile to be
Woooof W wof woof wooooof woooooof wof, woof-woooooooof wooooooof wf wf

looking out at the storm from the casement, he never heeded my presence,
wooooof wof wf wof wooof woof wof woooooof, wf wooof woooof wf woooooof,

never troubled himself with so much as a single glance; but appeared
wooof woooooof wooooof woof wf woof wf w woooof woooof; wof woooooof

wholly occupied with counting the pages of the marvellous book.
woooof woooooof woof woooooof wof wooof wf wof woooooooof woof.

Considering how sociably we had been sleeping together the night
Wooooooooof wof woooooof wf wof woof woooooof woooooof wof wooof

previous, and especially considering the affectionate arm I had found
woooooof, wof woooooooof wooooooooof wof woooooooooof wof W wof wooof

thrown over me upon waking in the morning, I thought this indifference
woooof woof wf woof woooof wf wof wooooof, W wooooof woof woooooooooof

of his very strange. But savages are strange beings; at times you do not
wf wof woof wooooof. Wof wooooof wof wooooof woooof; wf wooof wof wf wof

know exactly how to take them. At first they are overawing; their calm
woof wooooof wof wf woof woof. Wf wooof woof wof wooooooof; wooof woof

self-collectedness of simplicity seems a Socratic wisdom. I had noticed
woof-wooooooooooof wf woooooooof wooof w Woooooof woooof. W wof wooooof

also that Queequeg never consorted at all, or but very little, with the
woof woof Woooooof wooof wooooooof wf wof, wf wof woof woooof, woof wof

other seamen in the inn. He made no advances whatever; appeared to have
wooof woooof wf wof wof. Wf woof wf woooooof woooooof; woooooof wf woof

no desire to enlarge the circle of his acquaintances. All this struck
wf woooof wf wooooof wof woooof wf wof wooooooooooof. Wof woof woooof

me as mighty singular; yet, upon second thoughts, there was something
wf wf woooof woooooof; wof, woof woooof woooooof, wooof wof wooooooof

almost sublime in it. Here was a man some twenty thousand miles from
woooof wooooof wf wf. Woof wof w wof woof woooof woooooof wooof woof

home, by the way of Cape Horn, that is--which was the only way he could
woof, wf wof wof wf Woof Woof, woof wf--wooof wof wof woof wof wf wooof

get there--thrown among people as strange to him as though he were in
wof wooof--woooof wooof woooof wf wooooof wf wof wf woooof wf woof wf

the planet Jupiter; and yet he seemed entirely at his ease; preserving
wof woooof Wooooof; wof wof wf woooof woooooof wf wof woof; woooooooof

the utmost serenity; content with his own companionship; always equal to
wof woooof woooooof; wooooof woof wof wof wooooooooooof; woooof wooof wf

himself. Surely this was a touch of fine philosophy; though no doubt he
wooooof. Woooof woof wof w wooof wf woof woooooooof; woooof wf wooof wf

had never heard there was such a thing as that. But, perhaps, to be
wof wooof wooof wooof wof woof w wooof wf woof. Wof, wooooof, wf wf

true philosophers, we mortals should not be conscious of so living or
woof woooooooooof, wf wooooof woooof wof wf wooooooof wf wf woooof wf

so striving. So soon as I hear that such or such a man gives himself
wf woooooof. Wf woof wf W woof woof woof wf woof w wof wooof wooooof

out for a philosopher, I conclude that, like the dyspeptic old woman, he
wof wof w wooooooooof, W woooooof woof, woof wof wooooooof wof wooof, wf

must have "broken his digester."
woof woof "woooof wof woooooof."




As I sat there in that now lonely room; the fire burning low, in that
Wf W wof wooof wf woof wof woooof woof; wof woof wooooof wof, wf woof

mild stage when, after its first intensity has warmed the air, it then
woof wooof woof, wooof wof wooof wooooooof wof woooof wof wof, wf woof

only glows to be looked at; the evening shades and phantoms gathering
woof wooof wf wf woooof wf; wof wooooof woooof wof woooooof wooooooof

round the casements, and peering in upon us silent, solitary twain;
wooof wof wooooooof, wof wooooof wf woof wf woooof, woooooof wooof;

the storm booming without in solemn swells; I began to be sensible of
wof wooof wooooof wooooof wf woooof woooof; W wooof wf wf woooooof wf

strange feelings. I felt a melting in me. No more my splintered heart
wooooof woooooof. W woof w wooooof wf wf. Wf woof wf woooooooof wooof

and maddened hand were turned against the wolfish world. This soothing
wof woooooof woof woof woooof wooooof wof wooooof wooof. Woof woooooof

savage had redeemed it. There he sat, his very indifference speaking a
woooof wof woooooof wf. Wooof wf wof, wof woof woooooooooof woooooof w

nature in which there lurked no civilized hypocrisies and bland deceits.
woooof wf wooof wooof woooof wf wooooooof wooooooooof wof wooof wooooof.

Wild he was; a very sight of sights to see; yet I began to feel myself
Woof wf wof; w woof wooof wf woooof wf wof; wof W wooof wf woof woooof

mysteriously drawn towards him. And those same things that would have
woooooooooof wooof wooooof wof. Wof wooof woof woooof woof wooof woof

repelled most others, they were the very magnets that thus drew me. I'll
woooooof woof woooof, woof woof wof woof wooooof woof woof woof wf. W'wf

try a pagan friend, thought I, since Christian kindness has proved but
wof w wooof woooof, wooooof W, wooof Wooooooof woooooof wof woooof wof

hollow courtesy. I drew my bench near him, and made some friendly signs
woooof woooooof. W woof wf wooof woof wof, wof woof woof woooooof wooof

and hints, doing my best to talk with him meanwhile. At first he little
wof wooof, wooof wf woof wf woof woof wof wooooooof. Wf wooof wf woooof

noticed these advances; but presently, upon my referring to his last
wooooof wooof woooooof; wof wooooooof, woof wf wooooooof wf wof woof

night's hospitalities, he made out to ask me whether we were again to be
wooof'w wooooooooooof, wf woof wof wf wof wf wooooof wf woof wooof wf wf

bedfellows. I told him yes; whereat I thought he looked pleased, perhaps
woooooooof. W woof wof wof; wooooof W wooooof wf woooof wooooof, wooooof

a little complimented.
w woooof woooooooooof.




We then turned over the book together, and I endeavored to explain to
Wf woof woooof woof wof woof woooooof, wof W woooooooof wf wooooof wf

him the purpose of the printing, and the meaning of the few pictures
wof wof wooooof wf wof woooooof, wof wof wooooof wf wof wof woooooof

that were in it. Thus I soon engaged his interest; and from that we went
woof woof wf wf. Woof W woof wooooof wof woooooof; wof woof woof wf woof

to jabbering the best we could about the various outer sights to be seen
wf wooooooof wof woof wf wooof wooof wof wooooof wooof woooof wf wf woof

in this famous town. Soon I proposed a social smoke; and, producing
wf woof woooof woof. Woof W woooooof w woooof wooof; wof, wooooooof

his pouch and tomahawk, he quietly offered me a puff. And then we sat
wof wooof wof woooooof, wf wooooof wooooof wf w woof. Wof woof wf wof

exchanging puffs from that wild pipe of his, and keeping it regularly
woooooooof wooof woof woof woof woof wf wof, wof wooooof wf wooooooof

passing between us.
wooooof wooooof wf.




If there yet lurked any ice of indifference towards me in the Pagan's
Wf wooof wof woooof wof wof wf woooooooooof wooooof wf wf wof Wooof'w

breast, this pleasant, genial smoke we had, soon thawed it out, and left
woooof, woof woooooof, woooof wooof wf wof, woof woooof wf wof, wof woof

us cronies. He seemed to take to me quite as naturally and unbiddenly as
wf wooooof. Wf woooof wf woof wf wf wooof wf wooooooof wof woooooooof wf

I to him; and when our smoke was over, he pressed his forehead against
W wf wof; wof woof wof wooof wof woof, wf wooooof wof woooooof wooooof

mine, clasped me round the waist, and said that henceforth we were
woof, wooooof wf wooof wof wooof, wof woof woof woooooooof wf woof

married; meaning, in his country's phrase, that we were bosom friends;
wooooof; wooooof, wf wof wooooof'w woooof, woof wf woof wooof wooooof;

he would gladly die for me, if need should be. In a countryman, this
wf wooof woooof wof wof wf, wf woof woooof wf. Wf w woooooooof, woof

sudden flame of friendship would have seemed far too premature, a thing
woooof wooof wf woooooooof wooof woof woooof wof wof wooooooof, w wooof

to be much distrusted; but in this simple savage those old rules would
wf wf woof woooooooof; wof wf woof woooof woooof wooof wof wooof wooof

not apply.
wof wooof.




After supper, and another social chat and smoke, we went to our room
Wooof woooof, wof wooooof woooof woof wof wooof, wf woof wf wof woof

together. He made me a present of his embalmed head; took out his
woooooof. Wf woof wf w wooooof wf wof woooooof woof; woof wof wof

enormous tobacco wallet, and groping under the tobacco, drew out
woooooof wooooof woooof, wof wooooof wooof wof wooooof, woof wof

some thirty dollars in silver; then spreading them on the table, and
woof woooof wooooof wf woooof; woof wooooooof woof wf wof wooof, wof

mechanically dividing them into two equal portions, pushed one of them
woooooooooof woooooof woof woof wof wooof woooooof, woooof wof wf woof

towards me, and said it was mine. I was going to remonstrate; but he
wooooof wf, wof woof wf wof woof. W wof wooof wf wooooooooof; wof wf

silenced me by pouring them into my trowsers' pockets. I let them stay.
woooooof wf wf wooooof woof woof wf woooooof' wooooof. W wof woof woof.

He then went about his evening prayers, took out his idol, and removed
Wf woof woof wooof wof wooooof wooooof, woof wof wof woof, wof wooooof

the paper fireboard. By certain signs and symptoms, I thought he seemed
wof wooof wooooooof. Wf wooooof wooof wof woooooof, W wooooof wf woooof

anxious for me to join him; but well knowing what was to follow, I
wooooof wof wf wf woof wof; wof woof wooooof woof wof wf woooof, W

deliberated a moment whether, in case he invited me, I would comply or
wooooooooof w woooof wooooof, wf woof wf wooooof wf, W wooof woooof wf

otherwise.
wooooooof.




I was a good Christian; born and bred in the bosom of the infallible
W wof w woof Wooooooof; woof wof woof wf wof wooof wf wof woooooooof

Presbyterian Church. How then could I unite with this wild idolator in
Woooooooooof Woooof. Wof woof wooof W wooof woof woof woof woooooof wf

worshipping his piece of wood? But what is worship? thought I. Do
wooooooooof wof wooof wf woof? Wof woof wf wooooof? wooooof W. Wf

you suppose now, Ishmael, that the magnanimous God of heaven and
wof wooooof wof, Wooooof, woof wof wooooooooof Wof wf woooof wof

earth--pagans and all included--can possibly be jealous of an
wooof--woooof wof wof woooooof--wof woooooof wf wooooof wf wf

insignificant bit of black wood? Impossible! But what is worship?--to do
wooooooooooof wof wf wooof woof? Woooooooof! Wof woof wf wooooof?--wf wf

the will of God--THAT is worship. And what is the will of God?--to do to
wof woof wf Wof--WOOF wf wooooof. Wof woof wf wof woof wf Wof?--wf wf wf

my fellow man what I would have my fellow man to do to me--THAT is the
wf woooof wof woof W wooof woof wf woooof wof wf wf wf wf--WOOF wf wof

will of God. Now, Queequeg is my fellow man. And what do I wish that
woof wf Wof. Wof, Woooooof wf wf woooof wof. Wof woof wf W woof woof

this Queequeg would do to me? Why, unite with me in my particular
woof Woooooof wooof wf wf wf? Wof, wooof woof wf wf wf woooooooof

Presbyterian form of worship. Consequently, I must then unite with him
Woooooooooof woof wf wooooof. Woooooooooof, W woof woof wooof woof wof

in his; ergo, I must turn idolator. So I kindled the shavings; helped
wf wof; woof, W woof woof woooooof. Wf W wooooof wof woooooof; woooof

prop up the innocent little idol; offered him burnt biscuit with
woof wf wof woooooof woooof woof; wooooof wof wooof wooooof woof

Queequeg; salamed before him twice or thrice; kissed his nose; and that
Woooooof; wooooof woooof wof wooof wf woooof; woooof wof woof; wof woof

done, we undressed and went to bed, at peace with our own consciences
woof, wf wooooooof wof woof wf wof, wf wooof woof wof wof wooooooooof

and all the world. But we did not go to sleep without some little chat.
wof wof wof wooof. Wof wf wof wof wf wf wooof wooooof woof woooof woof.




How it is I know not; but there is no place like a bed for confidential
Wof wf wf W woof wof; wof wooof wf wf wooof woof w wof wof woooooooooof

disclosures between friends. Man and wife, they say, there open the very
wooooooooof wooooof wooooof. Wof wof woof, woof wof, wooof woof wof woof

bottom of their souls to each other; and some old couples often lie
woooof wf wooof wooof wf woof wooof; wof woof wof wooooof wooof wof

and chat over old times till nearly morning. Thus, then, in our hearts'
wof woof woof wof wooof woof woooof wooooof. Woof, woof, wf wof woooof'

honeymoon, lay I and Queequeg--a cosy, loving pair.
wooooooof, wof W wof Woooooof--w woof, woooof woof.










CHAPTER 11. Nightgown.
WOOOOOF wf. Wooooooof.







We had lain thus in bed, chatting and napping at short intervals, and
Wf wof woof woof wf wof, woooooof wof wooooof wf wooof wooooooof, wof

Queequeg now and then affectionately throwing his brown tattooed legs
Woooooof wof wof woof woooooooooooof woooooof wof wooof woooooof woof

over mine, and then drawing them back; so entirely sociable and free
woof woof, wof woof wooooof woof woof; wf woooooof woooooof wof woof

and easy were we; when, at last, by reason of our confabulations, what
wof woof woof wf; woof, wf woof, wf woooof wf wof woooooooooooof, woof

little nappishness remained in us altogether departed, and we felt like
woooof wooooooooof woooooof wf wf woooooooof woooooof, wof wf woof woof

getting up again, though day-break was yet some way down the future.
wooooof wf wooof, woooof wof-wooof wof wof woof wof woof wof woooof.




Yes, we became very wakeful; so much so that our recumbent position
Wof, wf woooof woof wooooof; wf woof wf woof wof wooooooof woooooof

began to grow wearisome, and by little and little we found ourselves
wooof wf woof wooooooof, wof wf woooof wof woooof wf wooof wooooooof

sitting up; the clothes well tucked around us, leaning against the
wooooof wf; wof wooooof woof woooof woooof wf, wooooof wooooof wof

head-board with our four knees drawn up close together, and our two
woof-wooof woof wof woof wooof wooof wf wooof woooooof, wof wof wof

noses bending over them, as if our kneepans were warming-pans. We felt
wooof wooooof woof woof, wf wf wof woooooof woof wooooof-woof. Wf woof

very nice and snug, the more so since it was so chilly out of doors;
woof woof wof woof, wof woof wf wooof wf wof wf woooof wof wf wooof;

indeed out of bed-clothes too, seeing that there was no fire in the
woooof wof wf wof-wooooof wof, woooof woof wooof wof wf woof wf wof

room. The more so, I say, because truly to enjoy bodily warmth, some
woof. Wof woof wf, W wof, wooooof wooof wf wooof woooof woooof, woof

small part of you must be cold, for there is no quality in this world
wooof woof wf wof woof wf woof, wof wooof wf wf wooooof wf woof wooof

that is not what it is merely by contrast. Nothing exists in itself. If
woof wf wof woof wf wf woooof wf woooooof. Wooooof woooof wf woooof. Wf

you flatter yourself that you are all over comfortable, and have been so
wof wooooof woooooof woof wof wof wof woof wooooooooof, wof woof woof wf

a long time, then you cannot be said to be comfortable any more. But if,
w woof woof, woof wof woooof wf woof wf wf wooooooooof wof woof. Wof wf,

like Queequeg and me in the bed, the tip of your nose or the crown
woof Woooooof wof wf wf wof wof, wof wof wf woof woof wf wof wooof

of your head be slightly chilled, why then, indeed, in the general
wf woof woof wf woooooof wooooof, wof woof, woooof, wf wof wooooof

consciousness you feel most delightfully and unmistakably warm. For this
wooooooooooof wof woof woof woooooooooof wof woooooooooof woof. Wof woof

reason a sleeping apartment should never be furnished with a fire, which
woooof w woooooof wooooooof woooof wooof wf wooooooof woof w woof, wooof

is one of the luxurious discomforts of the rich. For the height of this
wf wof wf wof wooooooof wooooooooof wf wof woof. Wof wof woooof wf woof

sort of deliciousness is to have nothing but the blanket between you and
woof wf wooooooooooof wf wf woof wooooof wof wof wooooof wooooof wof wof

your snugness and the cold of the outer air. Then there you lie like the
woof woooooof wof wof woof wf wof wooof wof. Woof wooof wof wof woof wof

one warm spark in the heart of an arctic crystal.
wof woof wooof wf wof wooof wf wf woooof wooooof.




We had been sitting in this crouching manner for some time, when all at
Wf wof woof wooooof wf woof wooooooof woooof wof woof woof, woof wof wf

once I thought I would open my eyes; for when between sheets, whether
woof W wooooof W wooof woof wf woof; wof woof wooooof woooof, wooooof

by day or by night, and whether asleep or awake, I have a way of always
wf wof wf wf wooof, wof wooooof woooof wf wooof, W woof w wof wf woooof

keeping my eyes shut, in order the more to concentrate the snugness
wooooof wf woof woof, wf wooof wof woof wf wooooooooof wof woooooof

of being in bed. Because no man can ever feel his own identity aright
wf wooof wf wof. Wooooof wf wof wof woof woof wof wof woooooof woooof

except his eyes be closed; as if darkness were indeed the proper element
woooof wof woof wf woooof; wf wf woooooof woof woooof wof woooof wooooof

of our essences, though light be more congenial to our clayey part. Upon
wf wof woooooof, woooof wooof wf woof wooooooof wf wof woooof woof. Woof

opening my eyes then, and coming out of my own pleasant and self-created
wooooof wf woof woof, wof woooof wof wf wf wof woooooof wof woof-wooooof

darkness into the imposed and coarse outer gloom of the unilluminated
woooooof woof wof wooooof wof woooof wooof wooof wf wof wooooooooooof

twelve-o'clock-at-night, I experienced a disagreeable revulsion. Nor did
woooof-w'wooof-wf-wooof, W wooooooooof w woooooooooof wooooooof. Wof wof

I at all object to the hint from Queequeg that perhaps it were best to
W wf wof woooof wf wof woof woof Woooooof woof wooooof wf woof woof wf

strike a light, seeing that we were so wide awake; and besides he felt
woooof w wooof, woooof woof wf woof wf woof wooof; wof wooooof wf woof

a strong desire to have a few quiet puffs from his Tomahawk. Be it said,
w woooof woooof wf woof w wof wooof wooof woof wof Woooooof. Wf wf woof,

that though I had felt such a strong repugnance to his smoking in the
woof woooof W wof woof woof w woooof woooooooof wf wof wooooof wf wof

bed the night before, yet see how elastic our stiff prejudices grow when
wof wof wooof woooof, wof wof wof wooooof wof wooof woooooooof woof woof

love once comes to bend them. For now I liked nothing better than to
woof woof wooof wf woof woof. Wof wof W wooof wooooof woooof woof wf

have Queequeg smoking by me, even in bed, because he seemed to be full
woof Woooooof wooooof wf wf, woof wf wof, wooooof wf woooof wf wf woof

of such serene household joy then. I no more felt unduly concerned for
wf woof woooof wooooooof wof woof. W wf woof woof woooof wooooooof wof

the landlord's policy of insurance. I was only alive to the condensed
wof woooooof'w woooof wf wooooooof. W wof woof wooof wf wof wooooooof

confidential comfortableness of sharing a pipe and a blanket with a real
woooooooooof wooooooooooooof wf wooooof w woof wof w wooooof woof w woof

friend. With our shaggy jackets drawn about our shoulders, we now passed
woooof. Woof wof woooof wooooof wooof wooof wof wooooooof, wf wof woooof

the Tomahawk from one to the other, till slowly there grew over us a
wof Woooooof woof wof wf wof wooof, woof woooof wooof woof woof wf w

blue hanging tester of smoke, illuminated by the flame of the new-lit
woof wooooof woooof wf wooof, wooooooooof wf wof wooof wf wof wof-wof

lamp.
woof.




Whether it was that this undulating tester rolled the savage away to far
Wooooof wf wof woof woof woooooooof woooof woooof wof woooof woof wf wof

distant scenes, I know not, but he now spoke of his native island; and,
wooooof woooof, W woof wof, wof wf wof wooof wf wof woooof woooof; wof,

eager to hear his history, I begged him to go on and tell it. He gladly
wooof wf woof wof wooooof, W woooof wof wf wf wf wof woof wf. Wf woooof

complied. Though at the time I but ill comprehended not a few of his
woooooof. Woooof wf wof woof W wof wof woooooooooof wof w wof wf wof

words, yet subsequent disclosures, when I had become more familiar with
wooof, wof woooooooof wooooooooof, woof W wof woooof woof woooooof woof

his broken phraseology, now enable me to present the whole story such as
wof woooof wooooooooof, wof woooof wf wf wooooof wof wooof wooof woof wf

it may prove in the mere skeleton I give.
wf wof wooof wf wof woof woooooof W woof.










CHAPTER 12. Biographical.
WOOOOOF wf. Woooooooooof.







Queequeg was a native of Rokovoko, an island far away to the West and
Woooooof wof w woooof wf Woooooof, wf woooof wof woof wf wof Woof wof

South. It is not down in any map; true places never are.
Wooof. Wf wf wof woof wf wof wof; woof woooof wooof wof.




When a new-hatched savage running wild about his native woodlands in
Woof w wof-wooooof woooof wooooof woof wooof wof woooof wooooooof wf

a grass clout, followed by the nibbling goats, as if he were a green
w wooof wooof, woooooof wf wof woooooof wooof, wf wf wf woof w wooof

sapling; even then, in Queequeg's ambitious soul, lurked a strong desire
wooooof; woof woof, wf Woooooof'w wooooooof woof, woooof w woooof woooof

to see something more of Christendom than a specimen whaler or two. His
wf wof wooooooof woof wf Wooooooooof woof w woooooof woooof wf wof. Wof

father was a High Chief, a King; his uncle a High Priest; and on the
woooof wof w Woof Wooof, w Woof; wof wooof w Woof Woooof; wof wf wof

maternal side he boasted aunts who were the wives of unconquerable
woooooof woof wf wooooof wooof wof woof wof wooof wf wooooooooooof

warriors. There was excellent blood in his veins--royal stuff; though
woooooof. Wooof wof wooooooof wooof wf wof wooof--wooof wooof; woooof

sadly vitiated, I fear, by the cannibal propensity he nourished in his
wooof woooooof, W woof, wf wof woooooof woooooooof wf wooooooof wf wof

untutored youth.
wooooooof wooof.




A Sag Harbor ship visited his father's bay, and Queequeg sought a
W Wof Woooof woof wooooof wof woooof'w wof, wof Woooooof woooof w

passage to Christian lands. But the ship, having her full complement of
wooooof wf Wooooooof wooof. Wof wof woof, woooof wof woof woooooooof wf

seamen, spurned his suit; and not all the King his father's influence
woooof, wooooof wof woof; wof wof wof wof Woof wof woooof'w wooooooof

could prevail. But Queequeg vowed a vow. Alone in his canoe, he paddled
wooof wooooof. Wof Woooooof wooof w wof. Wooof wf wof wooof, wf wooooof

off to a distant strait, which he knew the ship must pass through when
wof wf w wooooof woooof, wooof wf woof wof woof woof woof wooooof woof

she quitted the island. On one side was a coral reef; on the other a low
wof wooooof wof woooof. Wf wof woof wof w wooof woof; wf wof wooof w wof

tongue of land, covered with mangrove thickets that grew out into the
woooof wf woof, wooooof woof woooooof woooooof woof woof wof woof wof

water. Hiding his canoe, still afloat, among these thickets, with its
wooof. Woooof wof wooof, wooof woooof, wooof wooof woooooof, woof wof

prow seaward, he sat down in the stern, paddle low in hand; and when the
woof wooooof, wf wof woof wf wof wooof, woooof wof wf woof; wof woof wof

ship was gliding by, like a flash he darted out; gained her side; with
woof wof wooooof wf, woof w wooof wf woooof wof; woooof wof woof; woof

one backward dash of his foot capsized and sank his canoe; climbed up
wof woooooof woof wf wof woof woooooof wof woof wof wooof; wooooof wf

the chains; and throwing himself at full length upon the deck, grappled
wof woooof; wof woooooof wooooof wf woof woooof woof wof woof, woooooof

a ring-bolt there, and swore not to let it go, though hacked in pieces.
w woof-woof wooof, wof wooof wof wf wof wf wf, woooof woooof wf woooof.




In vain the captain threatened to throw him overboard; suspended a
Wf woof wof wooooof woooooooof wf wooof wof wooooooof; wooooooof w

cutlass over his naked wrists; Queequeg was the son of a King, and
wooooof woof wof wooof woooof; Woooooof wof wof wof wf w Woof, wof

Queequeg budged not. Struck by his desperate dauntlessness, and his wild
Woooooof woooof wof. Woooof wf wof wooooooof wooooooooooof, wof wof woof

desire to visit Christendom, the captain at last relented, and told
woooof wf wooof Wooooooooof, wof wooooof wf woof woooooof, wof woof

him he might make himself at home. But this fine young savage--this sea
wof wf wooof woof wooooof wf woof. Wof woof woof wooof woooof--woof wof

Prince of Wales, never saw the Captain's cabin. They put him down among
Woooof wf Wooof, wooof wof wof Wooooof'w wooof. Woof wof wof woof wooof

the sailors, and made a whaleman of him. But like Czar Peter content to
wof wooooof, wof woof w woooooof wf wof. Wof woof Woof Wooof wooooof wf

toil in the shipyards of foreign cities, Queequeg disdained no seeming
woof wf wof wooooooof wf wooooof woooof, Woooooof wooooooof wf wooooof

ignominy, if thereby he might happily gain the power of enlightening his
woooooof, wf wooooof wf wooof wooooof woof wof wooof wf woooooooooof wof

untutored countrymen. For at bottom--so he told me--he was actuated by a
wooooooof woooooooof. Wof wf woooof--wf wf woof wf--wf wof woooooof wf w

profound desire to learn among the Christians, the arts whereby to
woooooof woooof wf wooof wooof wof Woooooooof, wof woof wooooof wf

make his people still happier than they were; and more than that,
woof wof woooof wooof wooooof woof woof woof; wof woof woof woof,

still better than they were. But, alas! the practices of whalemen soon
wooof woooof woof woof woof. Wof, woof! wof wooooooof wf woooooof woof

convinced him that even Christians could be both miserable and wicked;
wooooooof wof woof woof Woooooooof wooof wf woof wooooooof wof woooof;

infinitely more so, than all his father's heathens. Arrived at last in
woooooooof woof wf, woof wof wof woooof'w woooooof. Wooooof wf woof wf

old Sag Harbor; and seeing what the sailors did there; and then going on
wof Wof Woooof; wof woooof woof wof wooooof wof wooof; wof woof wooof wf

to Nantucket, and seeing how they spent their wages in that place also,
wf Wooooooof, wof woooof wof woof wooof wooof wooof wf woof wooof woof,

poor Queequeg gave it up for lost. Thought he, it's a wicked world in
woof Woooooof woof wf wf wof woof. Wooooof wf, wf'w w woooof wooof wf

all meridians; I'll die a pagan.
wof wooooooof; W'wf wof w wooof.




And thus an old idolator at heart, he yet lived among these Christians,
Wof woof wf wof woooooof wf wooof, wf wof wooof wooof wooof Woooooooof,

wore their clothes, and tried to talk their gibberish. Hence the queer
woof wooof wooooof, wof wooof wf woof wooof wooooooof. Wooof wof wooof

ways about him, though now some time from home.
woof wooof wof, woooof wof woof woof woof woof.




By hints, I asked him whether he did not propose going back, and having
Wf wooof, W wooof wof wooooof wf wof wof wooooof wooof woof, wof woooof

a coronation; since he might now consider his father dead and gone, he
w woooooooof; wooof wf wooof wof woooooof wof woooof woof wof woof, wf

being very old and feeble at the last accounts. He answered no, not yet;
wooof woof wof wof woooof wf wof woof woooooof. Wf woooooof wf, wof wof;

and added that he was fearful Christianity, or rather Christians, had
wof wooof woof wf wof wooooof Woooooooooof, wf woooof Woooooooof, wof

unfitted him for ascending the pure and undefiled throne of thirty pagan
woooooof wof wof wooooooof wof woof wof wooooooof woooof wf woooof wooof

Kings before him. But by and by, he said, he would return,--as soon as
Wooof woooof wof. Wof wf wof wf, wf woof, wf wooof woooof,--wf woof wf

he felt himself baptized again. For the nonce, however, he proposed to
wf woof wooooof woooooof wooof. Wof wof wooof, wooooof, wf woooooof wf

sail about, and sow his wild oats in all four oceans. They had made a
woof wooof, wof wof wof woof woof wf wof woof woooof. Woof wof woof w

harpooneer of him, and that barbed iron was in lieu of a sceptre now.
woooooooof wf wof, wof woof woooof woof wof wf woof wf w wooooof wof.




I asked him what might be his immediate purpose, touching his future
W wooof wof woof wooof wf wof wooooooof wooooof, woooooof wof woooof

movements. He answered, to go to sea again, in his old vocation. Upon
wooooooof. Wf woooooof, wf wf wf wof wooof, wf wof wof woooooof. Woof

this, I told him that whaling was my own design, and informed him of my
woof, W woof wof woof wooooof wof wf wof woooof, wof woooooof wof wf wf

intention to sail out of Nantucket, as being the most promising port for
wooooooof wf woof wof wf Wooooooof, wf wooof wof woof wooooooof woof wof

an adventurous whaleman to embark from. He at once resolved to accompany
wf wooooooooof woooooof wf woooof woof. Wf wf woof woooooof wf wooooooof

me to that island, ship aboard the same vessel, get into the same watch,
wf wf woof woooof, woof woooof wof woof woooof, wof woof wof woof wooof,

the same boat, the same mess with me, in short to share my every hap;
wof woof woof, wof woof woof woof wf, wf wooof wf wooof wf wooof wof;

with both my hands in his, boldly dip into the Potluck of both worlds.
woof woof wf wooof wf wof, woooof wof woof wof Wooooof wf woof woooof.

To all this I joyously assented; for besides the affection I now felt
Wf wof woof W woooooof woooooof; wof wooooof wof wooooooof W wof woof

for Queequeg, he was an experienced harpooneer, and as such, could not
wof Woooooof, wf wof wf wooooooooof woooooooof, wof wf woof, wooof wof

fail to be of great usefulness to one, who, like me, was wholly ignorant
woof wf wf wf wooof woooooooof wf wof, wof, woof wf, wof woooof woooooof

of the mysteries of whaling, though well acquainted with the sea, as
wf wof wooooooof wf wooooof, woooof woof woooooooof woof wof wof, wf

known to merchant seamen.
wooof wf woooooof woooof.




His story being ended with his pipe's last dying puff, Queequeg embraced
Wof wooof wooof wooof woof wof woof'w woof wooof woof, Woooooof woooooof

me, pressed his forehead against mine, and blowing out the light, we
wf, wooooof wof woooooof wooooof woof, wof wooooof wof wof wooof, wf

rolled over from each other, this way and that, and very soon were
woooof woof woof woof wooof, woof wof wof woof, wof woof woof woof

sleeping.
woooooof.







CHAPTER 13. Wheelbarrow.
WOOOOOF wf. Wooooooooof.







Next morning, Monday, after disposing of the embalmed head to a barber,
Woof wooooof, Woooof, wooof wooooooof wf wof woooooof woof wf w woooof,

for a block, I settled my own and comrade's bill; using, however, my
wof w wooof, W wooooof wf wof wof wooooof'w woof; wooof, wooooof, wf

comrade's money. The grinning landlord, as well as the boarders, seemed
wooooof'w wooof. Wof woooooof woooooof, wf woof wf wof woooooof, woooof

amazingly tickled at the sudden friendship which had sprung up between
wooooooof wooooof wf wof woooof woooooooof wooof wof woooof wf wooooof

me and Queequeg--especially as Peter Coffin's cock and bull stories
wf wof Woooooof--woooooooof wf Wooof Woooof'w woof wof woof wooooof

about him had previously so much alarmed me concerning the very person
wooof wof wof woooooooof wf woof wooooof wf woooooooof wof woof woooof

whom I now companied with.
woof W wof wooooooof woof.




We borrowed a wheelbarrow, and embarking our things, including my own
Wf woooooof w wooooooooof, wof wooooooof wof woooof, wooooooof wf wof

poor carpet-bag, and Queequeg's canvas sack and hammock, away we went
woof woooof-wof, wof Woooooof'w woooof woof wof wooooof, woof wf woof

down to "the Moss," the little Nantucket packet schooner moored at the
woof wf "wof Woof," wof woooof Wooooooof woooof woooooof woooof wf wof

wharf. As we were going along the people stared; not at Queequeg
wooof. Wf wf woof wooof wooof wof woooof woooof; wof wf Woooooof

so much--for they were used to seeing cannibals like him in their
wf woof--wof woof woof woof wf woooof wooooooof woof wof wf wooof

streets,--but at seeing him and me upon such confidential terms. But we
wooooof,--wof wf woooof wof wof wf woof woof woooooooooof wooof. Wof wf

heeded them not, going along wheeling the barrow by turns, and Queequeg
woooof woof wof, wooof wooof woooooof wof woooof wf wooof, wof Woooooof

now and then stopping to adjust the sheath on his harpoon barbs. I asked
wof wof woof woooooof wf woooof wof woooof wf wof wooooof wooof. W wooof

him why he carried such a troublesome thing with him ashore, and
wof wof wf wooooof woof w wooooooooof wooof woof wof woooof, wof

whether all whaling ships did not find their own harpoons. To this, in
wooooof wof wooooof wooof wof wof woof wooof wof woooooof. Wf woof, wf

substance, he replied, that though what I hinted was true enough, yet
wooooooof, wf wooooof, woof woooof woof W woooof wof woof woooof, wof

he had a particular affection for his own harpoon, because it was of
wf wof w woooooooof wooooooof wof wof wof wooooof, wooooof wf wof wf

assured stuff, well tried in many a mortal combat, and deeply intimate
wooooof wooof, woof wooof wf woof w woooof woooof, wof woooof woooooof

with the hearts of whales. In short, like many inland reapers
woof wof woooof wf woooof. Wf wooof, woof woof woooof wooooof

and mowers, who go into the farmers' meadows armed with their own
wof woooof, wof wf woof wof wooooof' wooooof wooof woof wooof wof

scythes--though in no wise obliged to furnish them--even so, Queequeg,
wooooof--woooof wf wf woof wooooof wf wooooof woof--woof wf, Woooooof,

for his own private reasons, preferred his own harpoon.
wof wof wof wooooof wooooof, wooooooof wof wof wooooof.




Shifting the barrow from my hand to his, he told me a funny story about
Woooooof wof woooof woof wf woof wf wof, wf woof wf w wooof wooof wooof

the first wheelbarrow he had ever seen. It was in Sag Harbor. The owners
wof wooof wooooooooof wf wof woof woof. Wf wof wf Wof Woooof. Wof woooof

of his ship, it seems, had lent him one, in which to carry his
wf wof woof, wf wooof, wof woof wof wof, wf wooof wf wooof wof

heavy chest to his boarding house. Not to seem ignorant about the
wooof wooof wf wof woooooof wooof. Wof wf woof woooooof wooof wof

thing--though in truth he was entirely so, concerning the precise way in
wooof--woooof wf wooof wf wof woooooof wf, woooooooof wof wooooof wof wf

which to manage the barrow--Queequeg puts his chest upon it; lashes it
wooof wf woooof wof woooof--Woooooof woof wof wooof woof wf; woooof wf

fast; and then shoulders the barrow and marches up the wharf. "Why,"
woof; wof woof wooooooof wof woooof wof wooooof wf wof wooof. "Wof,"

said I, "Queequeg, you might have known better than that, one would
woof W, "Woooooof, wof wooof woof wooof woooof woof woof, wof wooof

think. Didn't the people laugh?"
wooof. Woof'w wof woooof wooof?"




Upon this, he told me another story. The people of his island of
Woof woof, wf woof wf wooooof wooof. Wof woooof wf wof woooof wf

Rokovoko, it seems, at their wedding feasts express the fragrant water
Woooooof, wf wooof, wf wooof wooooof woooof wooooof wof woooooof wooof

of young cocoanuts into a large stained calabash like a punchbowl; and
wf wooof wooooooof woof w wooof wooooof woooooof woof w wooooooof; wof

this punchbowl always forms the great central ornament on the braided
woof wooooooof woooof wooof wof wooof wooooof woooooof wf wof wooooof

mat where the feast is held. Now a certain grand merchant ship once
wof wooof wof wooof wf woof. Wof w wooooof wooof woooooof woof woof

touched at Rokovoko, and its commander--from all accounts, a very
wooooof wf Woooooof, wof wof wooooooof--woof wof woooooof, w woof

stately punctilious gentleman, at least for a sea captain--this
wooooof wooooooooof wooooooof, wf wooof wof w wof wooooof--woof

commander was invited to the wedding feast of Queequeg's sister, a
wooooooof wof wooooof wf wof wooooof wooof wf Woooooof'w woooof, w

pretty young princess just turned of ten. Well; when all the wedding
woooof wooof woooooof woof woooof wf wof. Woof; woof wof wof wooooof

guests were assembled at the bride's bamboo cottage, this Captain
woooof woof wooooooof wf wof wooof'w woooof wooooof, woof Wooooof

marches in, and being assigned the post of honour, placed himself over
wooooof wf, wof wooof woooooof wof woof wf woooof, woooof wooooof woof

against the punchbowl, and between the High Priest and his majesty the
wooooof wof wooooooof, wof wooooof wof Woof Woooof wof wof wooooof wof

King, Queequeg's father. Grace being said,--for those people have their
Woof, Woooooof'w woooof. Wooof wooof woof,--wof wooof woooof woof wooof

grace as well as we--though Queequeg told me that unlike us, who at such
wooof wf woof wf wf--woooof Woooooof woof wf woof woooof wf, wof wf woof

times look downwards to our platters, they, on the contrary, copying the
wooof woof wooooooof wf wof woooooof, woof, wf wof woooooof, wooooof wof

ducks, glance upwards to the great Giver of all feasts--Grace, I say,
wooof, woooof wooooof wf wof wooof Wooof wf wof woooof--Wooof, W wof,

being said, the High Priest opens the banquet by the immemorial ceremony
wooof woof, wof Woof Woooof wooof wof wooooof wf wof woooooooof woooooof

of the island; that is, dipping his consecrated and consecrating fingers
wf wof woooof; woof wf, wooooof wof wooooooooof wof woooooooooof wooooof

into the bowl before the blessed beverage circulates. Seeing himself
woof wof woof woooof wof wooooof woooooof woooooooof. Woooof wooooof

placed next the Priest, and noting the ceremony, and thinking
woooof woof wof Woooof, wof woooof wof woooooof, wof woooooof

himself--being Captain of a ship--as having plain precedence over a
wooooof--wooof Wooooof wf w woof--wf woooof wooof woooooooof woof w

mere island King, especially in the King's own house--the Captain coolly
woof woooof Woof, woooooooof wf wof Woof'w wof wooof--wof Wooooof woooof

proceeds to wash his hands in the punchbowl;--taking it I suppose for a
woooooof wf woof wof wooof wf wof wooooooof;--woooof wf W wooooof wof w

huge finger-glass. "Now," said Queequeg, "what you tink now?--Didn't our
woof woooof-wooof. "Wof," woof Woooooof, "woof wof woof wof?--Woof'w wof

people laugh?"
woooof wooof?"




At last, passage paid, and luggage safe, we stood on board the schooner.
Wf woof, wooooof woof, wof wooooof woof, wf wooof wf wooof wof woooooof.

Hoisting sail, it glided down the Acushnet river. On one side, New
Woooooof woof, wf woooof woof wof Woooooof wooof. Wf wof woof, Wof

Bedford rose in terraces of streets, their ice-covered trees all
Wooooof woof wf woooooof wf wooooof, wooof wof-wooooof wooof wof

glittering in the clear, cold air. Huge hills and mountains of casks on
woooooooof wf wof wooof, woof wof. Woof wooof wof wooooooof wf wooof wf

casks were piled upon her wharves, and side by side the world-wandering
wooof woof wooof woof wof wooooof, wof woof wf woof wof wooof-wooooooof

whale ships lay silent and safely moored at last; while from others
wooof wooof wof woooof wof woooof woooof wf woof; wooof woof woooof

came a sound of carpenters and coopers, with blended noises of fires and
woof w wooof wf woooooooof wof wooooof, woof wooooof woooof wf wooof wof

forges to melt the pitch, all betokening that new cruises were on the
woooof wf woof wof wooof, wof woooooooof woof wof wooooof woof wf wof

start; that one most perilous and long voyage ended, only begins a
wooof; woof wof woof woooooof wof woof woooof wooof, woof woooof w

second; and a second ended, only begins a third, and so on, for ever
woooof; wof w woooof wooof, woof woooof w wooof, wof wf wf, wof woof

and for aye. Such is the endlessness, yea, the intolerableness of all
wof wof wof. Woof wf wof wooooooooof, wof, wof wooooooooooooof wf wof

earthly effort.
wooooof woooof.




Gaining the more open water, the bracing breeze waxed fresh; the little
Wooooof wof woof woof wooof, wof wooooof woooof wooof wooof; wof woooof

Moss tossed the quick foam from her bows, as a young colt his snortings.
Woof woooof wof wooof woof woof wof woof, wf w wooof woof wof wooooooof.

How I snuffed that Tartar air!--how I spurned that turnpike earth!--that
Wof W wooooof woof Woooof wof!--wof W wooooof woof woooooof wooof!--woof

common highway all over dented with the marks of slavish heels and
woooof wooooof wof woof woooof woof wof wooof wf wooooof wooof wof

hoofs; and turned me to admire the magnanimity of the sea which will
wooof; wof woooof wf wf woooof wof wooooooooof wf wof wof wooof woof

permit no records.
woooof wf wooooof.




At the same foam-fountain, Queequeg seemed to drink and reel with me.
Wf wof woof woof-woooooof, Woooooof woooof wf wooof wof woof woof wf.

His dusky nostrils swelled apart; he showed his filed and pointed teeth.
Wof wooof woooooof wooooof wooof; wf woooof wof wooof wof wooooof wooof.

On, on we flew; and our offing gained, the Moss did homage to the
Wf, wf wf woof; wof wof woooof woooof, wof Woof wof woooof wf wof

blast; ducked and dived her bows as a slave before the Sultan. Sideways
wooof; woooof wof wooof wof woof wf w wooof woooof wof Woooof. Woooooof

leaning, we sideways darted; every ropeyarn tingling like a wire; the
wooooof, wf woooooof woooof; wooof woooooof woooooof woof w woof; wof

two tall masts buckling like Indian canes in land tornadoes. So full of
wof woof wooof woooooof woof Woooof wooof wf woof wooooooof. Wf woof wf

this reeling scene were we, as we stood by the plunging bowsprit, that
woof wooooof wooof woof wf, wf wf wooof wf wof woooooof woooooof, woof

for some time we did not notice the jeering glances of the passengers, a
wof woof woof wf wof wof woooof wof wooooof wooooof wf wof woooooooof, w

lubber-like assembly, who marvelled that two fellow beings should be so
woooof-woof woooooof, wof wooooooof woof wof woooof woooof woooof wf wf

companionable; as though a white man were anything more dignified than a
wooooooooooof; wf woooof w wooof wof woof woooooof woof wooooooof woof w

whitewashed negro. But there were some boobies and bumpkins there, who,
wooooooooof wooof. Wof wooof woof woof wooooof wof woooooof wooof, wof,

by their intense greenness, must have come from the heart and centre of
wf wooof wooooof wooooooof, woof woof woof woof wof wooof wof woooof wf

all verdure. Queequeg caught one of these young saplings mimicking him
wof wooooof. Woooooof woooof wof wf wooof wooof woooooof wooooooof wof

behind his back. I thought the bumpkin's hour of doom was come. Dropping
woooof wof woof. W wooooof wof wooooof'w woof wf woof wof woof. Woooooof

his harpoon, the brawny savage caught him in his arms, and by an almost
wof wooooof, wof woooof woooof woooof wof wf wof woof, wof wf wf woooof

miraculous dexterity and strength, sent him high up bodily into the air;
woooooooof wooooooof wof woooooof, woof wof woof wf woooof woof wof wof;

then slightly tapping his stern in mid-somerset, the fellow landed with
woof woooooof wooooof wof wooof wf wof-woooooof, wof woooof woooof woof

bursting lungs upon his feet, while Queequeg, turning his back upon him,
woooooof wooof woof wof woof, wooof Woooooof, wooooof wof woof woof wof,

lighted his tomahawk pipe and passed it to me for a puff.
wooooof wof woooooof woof wof woooof wf wf wf wof w woof.




"Capting! Capting!" yelled the bumpkin, running towards that officer;
"Wooooof! Wooooof!" woooof wof wooooof, wooooof wooooof woof wooooof;

"Capting, Capting, here's the devil."
"Wooooof, Wooooof, woof'w wof wooof."




"Hallo, _you_ sir," cried the Captain, a gaunt rib of the sea, stalking
"Wooof, wooof wof," wooof wof Wooooof, w wooof wof wf wof wof, woooooof

up to Queequeg, "what in thunder do you mean by that? Don't you know you
wf wf Woooooof, "woof wf wooooof wf wof woof wf woof? Wof'w wof woof wof

might have killed that chap?"
wooof woof woooof woof woof?"




"What him say?" said Queequeg, as he mildly turned to me.
"Woof wof wof?" woof Woooooof, wf wf woooof woooof wf wf.




"He say," said I, "that you came near kill-e that man there," pointing
"Wf wof," woof W, "woof wof woof woof woof-w woof wof wooof," woooooof

to the still shivering greenhorn.
wf wof wooof wooooooof wooooooof.




"Kill-e," cried Queequeg, twisting his tattooed face into an unearthly
"Woof-w," wooof Woooooof, woooooof wof woooooof woof woof wf wooooooof

expression of disdain, "ah! him bevy small-e fish-e; Queequeg no kill-e
woooooooof wf wooooof, "wf! wof woof wooof-w woof-w; Woooooof wf woof-w

so small-e fish-e; Queequeg kill-e big whale!"
wf wooof-w woof-w; Woooooof woof-w wof wooof!"




"Look you," roared the Captain, "I'll kill-e YOU, you cannibal, if you
"Woof wof," woooof wof Wooooof, "W'wf woof-w WOF, wof woooooof, wf wof

try any more of your tricks aboard here; so mind your eye."
wof wof woof wf woof woooof woooof woof; wf woof woof wof."




But it so happened just then, that it was high time for the Captain to
Wof wf wf woooooof woof woof, woof wf wof woof woof wof wof Wooooof wf

mind his own eye. The prodigious strain upon the main-sail had parted
woof wof wof wof. Wof woooooooof woooof woof wof woof-woof wof woooof

the weather-sheet, and the tremendous boom was now flying from side to
wof wooooof-wooof, wof wof woooooooof woof wof wof woooof woof woof wf

side, completely sweeping the entire after part of the deck. The poor
woof, woooooooof woooooof wof woooof wooof woof wf wof woof. Wof woof

fellow whom Queequeg had handled so roughly, was swept overboard; all
woooof woof Woooooof wof wooooof wf wooooof, wof wooof wooooooof; wof

hands were in a panic; and to attempt snatching at the boom to stay it,
wooof woof wf w wooof; wof wf wooooof wooooooof wf wof woof wf woof wf,

seemed madness. It flew from right to left, and back again, almost
woooof wooooof. Wf woof woof wooof wf woof, wof woof wooof, woooof

in one ticking of a watch, and every instant seemed on the point of
wf wof wooooof wf w wooof, wof wooof wooooof woooof wf wof wooof wf

snapping into splinters. Nothing was done, and nothing seemed capable of
woooooof woof wooooooof. Wooooof wof woof, wof wooooof woooof wooooof wf

being done; those on deck rushed towards the bows, and stood eyeing the
wooof woof; wooof wf woof woooof wooooof wof woof, wof wooof woooof wof

boom as if it were the lower jaw of an exasperated whale. In the
woof wf wf wf woof wof wooof wof wf wf wooooooooof wooof. Wf wof

midst of this consternation, Queequeg dropped deftly to his knees, and
wooof wf woof wooooooooooof, Woooooof wooooof woooof wf wof wooof, wof

crawling under the path of the boom, whipped hold of a rope, secured one
woooooof wooof wof woof wf wof woof, wooooof woof wf w woof, wooooof wof

end to the bulwarks, and then flinging the other like a lasso, caught it
wof wf wof woooooof, wof woof woooooof wof wooof woof w wooof, woooof wf

round the boom as it swept over his head, and at the next jerk, the spar
wooof wof woof wf wf wooof woof wof woof, wof wf wof woof woof, wof woof

was that way trapped, and all was safe. The schooner was run into the
wof woof wof wooooof, wof wof wof woof. Wof woooooof wof wof woof wof

wind, and while the hands were clearing away the stern boat, Queequeg,
woof, wof wooof wof wooof woof woooooof woof wof wooof woof, Woooooof,

stripped to the waist, darted from the side with a long living arc of
woooooof wf wof wooof, woooof woof wof woof woof w woof woooof wof wf

a leap. For three minutes or more he was seen swimming like a dog,
w woof. Wof wooof wooooof wf woof wf wof woof woooooof woof w wof,

throwing his long arms straight out before him, and by turns revealing
woooooof wof woof woof woooooof wof woooof wof, wof wf wooof wooooooof

his brawny shoulders through the freezing foam. I looked at the grand
wof woooof wooooooof wooooof wof woooooof woof. W woooof wf wof wooof

and glorious fellow, but saw no one to be saved. The greenhorn had gone
wof woooooof woooof, wof wof wf wof wf wf wooof. Wof wooooooof wof woof

down. Shooting himself perpendicularly from the water, Queequeg, now
woof. Woooooof wooooof wooooooooooooof woof wof wooof, Woooooof, wof

took an instant's glance around him, and seeming to see just how matters
woof wf wooooof'w woooof woooof wof, wof wooooof wf wof woof wof wooooof

were, dived down and disappeared. A few minutes more, and he rose again,
woof, wooof woof wof wooooooooof. W wof wooooof woof, wof wf woof wooof,

one arm still striking out, and with the other dragging a lifeless form.
wof wof wooof woooooof wof, wof woof wof wooof woooooof w woooooof woof.

The boat soon picked them up. The poor bumpkin was restored. All hands
Wof woof woof woooof woof wf. Wof woof wooooof wof woooooof. Wof wooof

voted Queequeg a noble trump; the captain begged his pardon. From that
wooof Woooooof w wooof wooof; wof wooooof woooof wof woooof. Woof woof

hour I clove to Queequeg like a barnacle; yea, till poor Queequeg took
woof W wooof wf Woooooof woof w woooooof; wof, woof woof Woooooof woof

his last long dive.
wof woof woof woof.




Was there ever such unconsciousness? He did not seem to think that he at
Wof wooof woof woof wooooooooooooof? Wf wof wof woof wf wooof woof wf wf

all deserved a medal from the Humane and Magnanimous Societies. He only
wof woooooof w wooof woof wof Woooof wof Wooooooooof Wooooooof. Wf woof

asked for water--fresh water--something to wipe the brine off; that
wooof wof wooof--wooof wooof--wooooooof wf woof wof wooof wof; woof

done, he put on dry clothes, lighted his pipe, and leaning against the
woof, wf wof wf wof wooooof, wooooof wof woof, wof wooooof wooooof wof

bulwarks, and mildly eyeing those around him, seemed to be saying
woooooof, wof woooof woooof wooof woooof wof, woooof wf wf woooof

to himself--"It's a mutual, joint-stock world, in all meridians. We
wf wooooof--"Wf'w w woooof, wooof-wooof wooof, wf wof wooooooof. Wf

cannibals must help these Christians."
wooooooof woof woof wooof Woooooooof."










CHAPTER 14. Nantucket.
WOOOOOF wf. Wooooooof.







Nothing more happened on the passage worthy the mentioning; so, after a
Wooooof woof woooooof wf wof wooooof woooof wof woooooooof; wf, wooof w

fine run, we safely arrived in Nantucket.
woof wof, wf woooof wooooof wf Wooooooof.




Nantucket! Take out your map and look at it. See what a real corner of
Wooooooof! Woof wof woof wof wof woof wf wf. Wof woof w woof woooof wf

the world it occupies; how it stands there, away off shore, more lonely
wof wooof wf woooooof; wof wf woooof wooof, woof wof wooof, woof woooof

than the Eddystone lighthouse. Look at it--a mere hillock, and elbow of
woof wof Wooooooof woooooooof. Woof wf wf--w woof wooooof, wof wooof wf

sand; all beach, without a background. There is more sand there than
woof; wof wooof, wooooof w woooooooof. Wooof wf woof woof wooof woof

you would use in twenty years as a substitute for blotting paper. Some
wof wooof wof wf woooof wooof wf w woooooooof wof woooooof wooof. Woof

gamesome wights will tell you that they have to plant weeds there, they
woooooof woooof woof woof wof woof woof woof wf wooof wooof wooof, woof

don't grow naturally; that they import Canada thistles; that they have
wof'w woof wooooooof; woof woof woooof Woooof woooooof; woof woof woof

to send beyond seas for a spile to stop a leak in an oil cask; that
wf woof woooof woof wof w wooof wf woof w woof wf wf wof woof; woof

pieces of wood in Nantucket are carried about like bits of the true
woooof wf woof wf Wooooooof wof wooooof wooof woof woof wf wof woof

cross in Rome; that people there plant toadstools before their houses,
wooof wf Woof; woof woooof wooof wooof woooooooof woooof wooof woooof,

to get under the shade in summer time; that one blade of grass makes an
wf wof wooof wof wooof wf woooof woof; woof wof wooof wf wooof wooof wf

oasis, three blades in a day's walk a prairie; that they wear quicksand
wooof, wooof woooof wf w wof'w woof w wooooof; woof woof woof wooooooof

shoes, something like Laplander snow-shoes; that they are so shut up,
wooof, wooooooof woof Wooooooof woof-wooof; woof woof wof wf woof wf,

belted about, every way inclosed, surrounded, and made an utter island
woooof wooof, wooof wof woooooof, woooooooof, wof woof wf wooof woooof

of by the ocean, that to their very chairs and tables small clams will
wf wf wof wooof, woof wf wooof woof woooof wof woooof wooof wooof woof

sometimes be found adhering, as to the backs of sea turtles. But these
wooooooof wf wooof woooooof, wf wf wof wooof wf wof wooooof. Wof wooof

extravaganzas only show that Nantucket is no Illinois.
wooooooooooof woof woof woof Wooooooof wf wf Woooooof.




Look now at the wondrous traditional story of how this island was
Woof wof wf wof woooooof wooooooooof wooof wf wof woof woooof wof

settled by the red-men. Thus goes the legend. In olden times an eagle
wooooof wf wof wof-wof. Woof woof wof woooof. Wf wooof wooof wf wooof

swooped down upon the New England coast, and carried off an infant
wooooof woof woof wof Wof Wooooof wooof, wof wooooof wof wf woooof

Indian in his talons. With loud lament the parents saw their child borne
Woooof wf wof woooof. Woof woof woooof wof wooooof wof wooof wooof wooof

out of sight over the wide waters. They resolved to follow in the same
wof wf wooof woof wof woof woooof. Woof woooooof wf woooof wf wof woof

direction. Setting out in their canoes, after a perilous passage they
wooooooof. Wooooof wof wf wooof woooof, wooof w woooooof wooooof woof

discovered the island, and there they found an empty ivory casket,--the
woooooooof wof woooof, wof wooof woof wooof wf wooof wooof woooof,--wof

poor little Indian's skeleton.
woof woooof Woooof'w woooooof.




What wonder, then, that these Nantucketers, born on a beach, should take
Woof woooof, woof, woof wooof Woooooooooof, woof wf w wooof, woooof woof

to the sea for a livelihood! They first caught crabs and quohogs in
wf wof wof wof w woooooooof! Woof wooof woooof wooof wof wooooof wf

the sand; grown bolder, they waded out with nets for mackerel; more
wof woof; wooof woooof, woof wooof wof woof woof wof woooooof; woof

experienced, they pushed off in boats and captured cod; and at last,
wooooooooof, woof woooof wof wf wooof wof woooooof wof; wof wf woof,

launching a navy of great ships on the sea, explored this watery world;
wooooooof w woof wf wooof wooof wf wof wof, woooooof woof woooof wooof;

put an incessant belt of circumnavigations round it; peeped in
wof wf wooooooof woof wf wooooooooooooooof wooof wf; woooof wf

at Behring's Straits; and in all seasons and all oceans declared
wf Wooooof'w Wooooof; wof wf wof wooooof wof wof woooof woooooof

everlasting war with the mightiest animated mass that has survived the
wooooooooof wof woof wof wooooooof woooooof woof woof wof woooooof wof

flood; most monstrous and most mountainous! That Himmalehan, salt-sea
wooof; woof wooooooof wof woof wooooooooof! Woof Woooooooof, woof-wof

Mastodon, clothed with such portentousness of unconscious power, that
Woooooof, wooooof woof woof woooooooooooof wf wooooooooof wooof, woof

his very panics are more to be dreaded than his most fearless and
wof woof woooof wof woof wf wf wooooof woof wof woof woooooof wof

malicious assaults!
wooooooof woooooof!




And thus have these naked Nantucketers, these sea hermits, issuing from
Wof woof woof wooof wooof Woooooooooof, wooof wof wooooof, wooooof woof

their ant-hill in the sea, overrun and conquered the watery world like
wooof wof-woof wf wof wof, wooooof wof wooooooof wof woooof wooof woof

so many Alexanders; parcelling out among them the Atlantic, Pacific, and
wf woof Woooooooof; woooooooof wof wooof woof wof Woooooof, Wooooof, wof

Indian oceans, as the three pirate powers did Poland. Let America add
Woooof woooof, wf wof wooof woooof woooof wof Woooof. Wof Wooooof wof

Mexico to Texas, and pile Cuba upon Canada; let the English overswarm
Woooof wf Wooof, wof woof Woof woof Woooof; wof wof Wooooof wooooooof

all India, and hang out their blazing banner from the sun; two thirds
wof Wooof, wof woof wof wooof wooooof woooof woof wof wof; wof woooof

of this terraqueous globe are the Nantucketer's. For the sea is his; he
wf woof wooooooooof wooof wof wof Wooooooooof'w. Wof wof wof wf wof; wf

owns it, as Emperors own empires; other seamen having but a right of
woof wf, wf Woooooof wof wooooof; wooof woooof woooof wof w wooof wf

way through it. Merchant ships are but extension bridges; armed ones but
wof wooooof wf. Woooooof wooof wof wof wooooooof wooooof; wooof woof wof

floating forts; even pirates and privateers, though following the sea
woooooof wooof; woof wooooof wof woooooooof, woooof wooooooof wof wof

as highwaymen the road, they but plunder other ships, other fragments of
wf woooooooof wof woof, woof wof wooooof wooof wooof, wooof wooooooof wf

the land like themselves, without seeking to draw their living from the
wof woof woof woooooooof, wooooof wooooof wf woof wooof woooof woof wof

bottomless deep itself. The Nantucketer, he alone resides and riots on
woooooooof woof woooof. Wof Wooooooooof, wf wooof wooooof wof wooof wf

the sea; he alone, in Bible language, goes down to it in ships; to and
wof wof; wf wooof, wf Wooof woooooof, woof woof wf wf wf wooof; wf wof

fro ploughing it as his own special plantation. THERE is his home; THERE
wof wooooooof wf wf wof wof wooooof woooooooof. WOOOF wf wof woof; WOOOF

lies his business, which a Noah's flood would not interrupt, though it
woof wof woooooof, wooof w Woof'w wooof wooof wof wooooooof, woooof wf

overwhelmed all the millions in China. He lives on the sea, as prairie
wooooooooof wof wof woooooof wf Wooof. Wf wooof wf wof wof, wf wooooof

cocks in the prairie; he hides among the waves, he climbs them as
wooof wf wof wooooof; wf wooof wooof wof wooof, wf woooof woof wf

chamois hunters climb the Alps. For years he knows not the land; so
wooooof wooooof wooof wof Woof. Wof wooof wf wooof wof wof woof; wf

that when he comes to it at last, it smells like another world, more
woof woof wf wooof wf wf wf woof, wf woooof woof wooooof wooof, woof

strangely than the moon would to an Earthsman. With the landless gull,
wooooooof woof wof woof wooof wf wf Wooooooof. Woof wof woooooof woof,

that at sunset folds her wings and is rocked to sleep between billows;
woof wf woooof wooof wof wooof wof wf woooof wf wooof wooooof wooooof;

so at nightfall, the Nantucketer, out of sight of land, furls his sails,
wf wf wooooooof, wof Wooooooooof, wof wf wooof wf woof, wooof wof wooof,

and lays him to his rest, while under his very pillow rush herds of
wof woof wof wf wof woof, wooof wooof wof woof woooof woof wooof wf

walruses and whales.
woooooof wof woooof.










CHAPTER 15. Chowder.
WOOOOOF wf. Wooooof.







It was quite late in the evening when the little Moss came snugly
Wf wof wooof woof wf wof wooooof woof wof woooof Woof woof woooof

to anchor, and Queequeg and I went ashore; so we could attend to no
wf woooof, wof Woooooof wof W woof woooof; wf wf wooof woooof wf wf

business that day, at least none but a supper and a bed. The landlord of
woooooof woof wof, wf wooof woof wof w woooof wof w wof. Wof woooooof wf

the Spouter-Inn had recommended us to his cousin Hosea Hussey of the
wof Wooooof-Wof wof wooooooooof wf wf wof woooof Wooof Woooof wf wof

Try Pots, whom he asserted to be the proprietor of one of the best kept
Wof Woof, woof wf woooooof wf wf wof woooooooof wf wof wf wof woof woof

hotels in all Nantucket, and moreover he had assured us that Cousin
woooof wf wof Wooooooof, wof woooooof wf wof wooooof wf woof Woooof

Hosea, as he called him, was famous for his chowders. In short, he
Wooof, wf wf woooof wof, wof woooof wof wof woooooof. Wf wooof, wf

plainly hinted that we could not possibly do better than try pot-luck at
wooooof woooof woof wf wooof wof woooooof wf woooof woof wof wof-woof wf

the Try Pots. But the directions he had given us about keeping a yellow
wof Wof Woof. Wof wof woooooooof wf wof wooof wf wooof wooooof w woooof

warehouse on our starboard hand till we opened a white church to the
wooooooof wf wof wooooooof woof woof wf woooof w wooof woooof wf wof

larboard, and then keeping that on the larboard hand till we made a
woooooof, wof woof wooooof woof wf wof woooooof woof woof wf woof w

corner three points to the starboard, and that done, then ask the first
woooof wooof woooof wf wof wooooooof, wof woof woof, woof wof wof wooof

man we met where the place was: these crooked directions of his very
wof wf wof wooof wof wooof wof: wooof wooooof woooooooof wf wof woof

much puzzled us at first, especially as, at the outset, Queequeg
woof wooooof wf wf wooof, woooooooof wf, wf wof woooof, Woooooof

insisted that the yellow warehouse--our first point of departure--must
woooooof woof wof woooof wooooooof--wof wooof wooof wf wooooooof--woof

be left on the larboard hand, whereas I had understood Peter Coffin to
wf woof wf wof woooooof woof, wooooof W wof woooooooof Wooof Woooof wf

say it was on the starboard. However, by dint of beating about a little
wof wf wof wf wof wooooooof. Wooooof, wf woof wf wooooof wooof w woooof

in the dark, and now and then knocking up a peaceable inhabitant
wf wof woof, wof wof wof woof woooooof wf w wooooooof woooooooof

to inquire the way, we at last came to something which there was no
wf wooooof wof wof, wf wf woof woof wf wooooooof wooof wooof wof wf

mistaking.
wooooooof.




Two enormous wooden pots painted black, and suspended by asses' ears,
Wof woooooof woooof woof wooooof wooof, wof wooooooof wf wooof' woof,

swung from the cross-trees of an old top-mast, planted in front of an
wooof woof wof wooof-wooof wf wf wof wof-woof, wooooof wf wooof wf wf

old doorway. The horns of the cross-trees were sawed off on the other
wof wooooof. Wof wooof wf wof wooof-wooof woof wooof wof wf wof wooof

side, so that this old top-mast looked not a little like a gallows.
woof, wf woof woof wof wof-woof woooof wof w woooof woof w wooooof.

Perhaps I was over sensitive to such impressions at the time, but I
Wooooof W wof woof wooooooof wf woof wooooooooof wf wof woof, wof W

could not help staring at this gallows with a vague misgiving. A sort of
wooof wof woof wooooof wf woof wooooof woof w wooof wooooooof. W woof wf

crick was in my neck as I gazed up to the two remaining horns; yes, TWO
wooof wof wf wf woof wf W wooof wf wf wof wof wooooooof wooof; wof, WOF

of them, one for Queequeg, and one for me. It's ominous, thinks I. A
wf woof, wof wof Woooooof, wof wof wof wf. Wf'w wooooof, woooof W. W

Coffin my Innkeeper upon landing in my first whaling port; tombstones
Woooof wf Wooooooof woof wooooof wf wf wooof wooooof woof; woooooooof

staring at me in the whalemen's chapel; and here a gallows! and a pair
wooooof wf wf wf wof woooooof'w woooof; wof woof w wooooof! wof w woof

of prodigious black pots too! Are these last throwing out oblique hints
wf woooooooof wooof woof wof! Wof wooof woof woooooof wof wooooof wooof

touching Tophet?
woooooof Woooof?




I was called from these reflections by the sight of a freckled woman
W wof woooof woof wooof wooooooooof wf wof wooof wf w woooooof wooof

with yellow hair and a yellow gown, standing in the porch of the inn,
woof woooof woof wof w woooof woof, woooooof wf wof wooof wf wof wof,

under a dull red lamp swinging there, that looked much like an injured
wooof w woof wof woof woooooof wooof, woof woooof woof woof wf wooooof

eye, and carrying on a brisk scolding with a man in a purple woollen
wof, wof woooooof wf w wooof woooooof woof w wof wf w woooof wooooof

shirt.
wooof.




"Get along with ye," said she to the man, "or I'll be combing ye!"
"Wof wooof woof wf," woof wof wf wof wof, "wf W'wf wf wooooof wf!"




"Come on, Queequeg," said I, "all right. There's Mrs. Hussey."
"Woof wf, Woooooof," woof W, "wof wooof. Wooof'w Wof. Woooof."




And so it turned out; Mr. Hosea Hussey being from home, but leaving
Wof wf wf woooof wof; Wf. Wooof Woooof wooof woof woof, wof wooooof

Mrs. Hussey entirely competent to attend to all his affairs. Upon
Wof. Woooof woooooof wooooooof wf woooof wf wof wof wooooof. Woof

making known our desires for a supper and a bed, Mrs. Hussey, postponing
woooof wooof wof wooooof wof w woooof wof w wof, Wof. Woooof, woooooooof

further scolding for the present, ushered us into a little room, and
wooooof woooooof wof wof wooooof, wooooof wf woof w woooof woof, wof

seating us at a table spread with the relics of a recently concluded
wooooof wf wf w wooof woooof woof wof woooof wf w woooooof wooooooof

repast, turned round to us and said--"Clam or Cod?"
woooof, woooof wooof wf wf wof woof--"Woof wf Wof?"




"What's that about Cods, ma'am?" said I, with much politeness.
"Woof'w woof wooof Woof, wf'wf?" woof W, woof woof woooooooof.




"Clam or Cod?" she repeated.
"Woof wf Wof?" wof woooooof.




"A clam for supper? a cold clam; is THAT what you mean, Mrs. Hussey?"
"W woof wof woooof? w woof woof; wf WOOF woof wof woof, Wof. Woooof?"

says I, "but that's a rather cold and clammy reception in the winter
woof W, "wof woof'w w woooof woof wof woooof wooooooof wf wof woooof

time, ain't it, Mrs. Hussey?"
woof, wof'w wf, Wof. Woooof?"




But being in a great hurry to resume scolding the man in the purple
Wof wooof wf w wooof wooof wf woooof woooooof wof wof wf wof woooof

Shirt, who was waiting for it in the entry, and seeming to hear nothing
Wooof, wof wof wooooof wof wf wf wof wooof, wof wooooof wf woof wooooof

but the word "clam," Mrs. Hussey hurried towards an open door leading to
wof wof woof "woof," Wof. Woooof wooooof wooooof wf woof woof wooooof wf

the kitchen, and bawling out "clam for two," disappeared.
wof wooooof, wof wooooof wof "woof wof wof," wooooooooof.




"Queequeg," said I, "do you think that we can make out a supper for us
"Woooooof," woof W, "wf wof wooof woof wf wof woof wof w woooof wof wf

both on one clam?"
woof wf wof woof?"




However, a warm savory steam from the kitchen served to belie the
Wooooof, w woof woooof wooof woof wof wooooof woooof wf wooof wof

apparently cheerless prospect before us. But when that smoking chowder
woooooooof wooooooof woooooof woooof wf. Wof woof woof wooooof wooooof

came in, the mystery was delightfully explained. Oh, sweet friends!
woof wf, wof wooooof wof woooooooooof wooooooof. Wf, wooof wooooof!

hearken to me. It was made of small juicy clams, scarcely bigger than
wooooof wf wf. Wf wof woof wf wooof wooof wooof, woooooof woooof woof

hazel nuts, mixed with pounded ship biscuit, and salted pork cut up into
wooof woof, wooof woof wooooof woof wooooof, wof woooof woof wof wf woof

little flakes; the whole enriched with butter, and plentifully seasoned
woooof woooof; wof wooof woooooof woof woooof, wof wooooooooof woooooof

with pepper and salt. Our appetites being sharpened by the frosty
woof woooof wof woof. Wof wooooooof wooof wooooooof wf wof woooof

voyage, and in particular, Queequeg seeing his favourite fishing food
woooof, wof wf woooooooof, Woooooof woooof wof wooooooof wooooof woof

before him, and the chowder being surpassingly excellent, we despatched
woooof wof, wof wof wooooof wooof woooooooooof wooooooof, wf woooooooof

it with great expedition: when leaning back a moment and bethinking
wf woof wooof woooooooof: woof wooooof woof w woooof wof woooooooof

me of Mrs. Hussey's clam and cod announcement, I thought I would try
wf wf Wof. Woooof'w woof wof wof woooooooooof, W wooooof W wooof wof

a little experiment. Stepping to the kitchen door, I uttered the word
w woooof woooooooof. Woooooof wf wof wooooof woof, W wooooof wof woof

"cod" with great emphasis, and resumed my seat. In a few moments the
"wof" woof wooof woooooof, wof wooooof wf woof. Wf w wof wooooof wof

savoury steam came forth again, but with a different flavor, and in good
wooooof wooof woof wooof wooof, wof woof w wooooooof woooof, wof wf woof

time a fine cod-chowder was placed before us.
woof w woof wof-wooooof wof woooof woooof wf.




We resumed business; and while plying our spoons in the bowl, thinks I
Wf wooooof woooooof; wof wooof woooof wof woooof wf wof woof, woooof W

to myself, I wonder now if this here has any effect on the head?
wf woooof, W woooof wof wf woof woof wof wof woooof wf wof woof?

What's that stultifying saying about chowder-headed people? "But look,
Woof'w woof wooooooooof woooof wooof wooooof-woooof woooof? "Wof woof,

Queequeg, ain't that a live eel in your bowl? Where's your harpoon?"
Woooooof, wof'w woof w woof wof wf woof woof? Wooof'w woof wooooof?"




Fishiest of all fishy places was the Try Pots, which well deserved
Woooooof wf wof wooof woooof wof wof Wof Woof, wooof woof woooooof

its name; for the pots there were always boiling chowders. Chowder for
wof woof; wof wof woof wooof woof woooof wooooof woooooof. Wooooof wof

breakfast, and chowder for dinner, and chowder for supper, till you
wooooooof, wof wooooof wof woooof, wof wooooof wof woooof, woof wof

began to look for fish-bones coming through your clothes. The area
wooof wf woof wof woof-wooof woooof wooooof woof wooooof. Wof woof

before the house was paved with clam-shells. Mrs. Hussey wore a polished
woooof wof wooof wof wooof woof woof-woooof. Wof. Woooof woof w woooooof

necklace of codfish vertebra; and Hosea Hussey had his account books
woooooof wf wooooof woooooof; wof Wooof Woooof wof wof wooooof wooof

bound in superior old shark-skin. There was a fishy flavor to the milk,
wooof wf woooooof wof wooof-woof. Wooof wof w wooof woooof wf wof woof,

too, which I could not at all account for, till one morning happening
wof, wooof W wooof wof wf wof wooooof wof, woof wof wooooof wooooooof

to take a stroll along the beach among some fishermen's boats, I saw
wf woof w woooof wooof wof wooof wooof woof wooooooof'w wooof, W wof

Hosea's brindled cow feeding on fish remnants, and marching along the
Wooof'w woooooof wof wooooof wf woof woooooof, wof woooooof wooof wof

sand with each foot in a cod's decapitated head, looking very slip-shod,
woof woof woof woof wf w wof'w wooooooooof woof, wooooof woof woof-woof,

I assure ye.
W woooof wf.




Supper concluded, we received a lamp, and directions from Mrs. Hussey
Woooof wooooooof, wf woooooof w woof, wof woooooooof woof Wof. Woooof

concerning the nearest way to bed; but, as Queequeg was about to precede
woooooooof wof wooooof wof wf wof; wof, wf Woooooof wof wooof wf wooooof

me up the stairs, the lady reached forth her arm, and demanded his
wf wf wof woooof, wof woof wooooof wooof wof wof, wof woooooof wof

harpoon; she allowed no harpoon in her chambers. "Why not?" said I;
wooooof; wof wooooof wf wooooof wf wof woooooof. "Wof wof?" woof W;

"every true whaleman sleeps with his harpoon--but why not?" "Because
"wooof woof woooooof woooof woof wof wooooof--wof wof wof?" "Wooooof

it's dangerous," says she. "Ever since young Stiggs coming from that
wf'w wooooooof," woof wof. "Woof wooof wooof Woooof woooof woof woof

unfort'nt v'y'ge of his, when he was gone four years and a half, with
woooof'wf w'w'wf wf wof, woof wf wof woof woof wooof wof w woof, woof

only three barrels of _ile_, was found dead in my first floor back, with
woof wooof wooooof wf wooof, wof wooof woof wf wf wooof wooof woof, woof

his harpoon in his side; ever since then I allow no boarders to take
wof wooooof wf wof woof; woof wooof woof W wooof wf woooooof wf woof

sich dangerous weepons in their rooms at night. So, Mr. Queequeg" (for
woof wooooooof wooooof wf wooof wooof wf wooof. Wf, Wf. Woooooof" (wof

she had learned his name), "I will just take this here iron, and keep
wof wof wooooof wof woof), "W woof woof woof woof woof woof, wof woof

it for you till morning. But the chowder; clam or cod to-morrow for
wf wof wof woof wooooof. Wof wof wooooof; woof wf wof wf-woooof wof

breakfast, men?"
wooooooof, wof?"




"Both," says I; "and let's have a couple of smoked herring by way of
"Woof," woof W; "wof wof'w woof w woooof wf woooof wooooof wf wof wf

variety."
wooooof."










CHAPTER 16. The Ship.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Woof.







In bed we concocted our plans for the morrow. But to my surprise and
Wf wof wf wooooooof wof wooof wof wof woooof. Wof wf wf woooooof wof

no small concern, Queequeg now gave me to understand, that he had been
wf wooof wooooof, Woooooof wof woof wf wf woooooooof, woof wf wof woof

diligently consulting Yojo--the name of his black little god--and Yojo
woooooooof woooooooof Woof--wof woof wf wof wooof woooof wof--wof Woof

had told him two or three times over, and strongly insisted upon it
wof woof wof wof wf wooof wooof woof, wof woooooof woooooof woof wf

everyway, that instead of our going together among the whaling-fleet in
woooooof, woof wooooof wf wof wooof woooooof wooof wof wooooof-wooof wf

harbor, and in concert selecting our craft; instead of this, I say, Yojo
woooof, wof wf wooooof wooooooof wof wooof; wooooof wf woof, W wof, Woof

earnestly enjoined that the selection of the ship should rest wholly
wooooooof woooooof woof wof wooooooof wf wof woof woooof woof woooof

with me, inasmuch as Yojo purposed befriending us; and, in order to
woof wf, woooooof wf Woof woooooof wooooooooof wf; wof, wf wooof wf

do so, had already pitched upon a vessel, which, if left to myself, I,
wf wf, wof wooooof wooooof woof w woooof, wooof, wf woof wf woooof, W,

Ishmael, should infallibly light upon, for all the world as though it
Wooooof, woooof woooooooof wooof woof, wof wof wof wooof wf woooof wf

had turned out by chance; and in that vessel I must immediately ship
wof woooof wof wf woooof; wof wf woof woooof W woof wooooooooof woof

myself, for the present irrespective of Queequeg.
woooof, wof wof wooooof woooooooooof wf Woooooof.




I have forgotten to mention that, in many things, Queequeg placed great
W woof wooooooof wf wooooof woof, wf woof woooof, Woooooof woooof wooof

confidence in the excellence of Yojo's judgment and surprising forecast
woooooooof wf wof woooooooof wf Woof'w woooooof wof woooooooof woooooof

of things; and cherished Yojo with considerable esteem, as a rather good
wf woooof; wof wooooooof Woof woof woooooooooof woooof, wf w woooof woof

sort of god, who perhaps meant well enough upon the whole, but in all
woof wf wof, wof wooooof wooof woof woooof woof wof wooof, wof wf wof

cases did not succeed in his benevolent designs.
wooof wof wof wooooof wf wof woooooooof wooooof.




Now, this plan of Queequeg's, or rather Yojo's, touching the selection
Wof, woof woof wf Woooooof'w, wf woooof Woof'w, woooooof wof wooooooof

of our craft; I did not like that plan at all. I had not a little relied
wf wof wooof; W wof wof woof woof woof wf wof. W wof wof w woooof woooof

upon Queequeg's sagacity to point out the whaler best fitted to carry
woof Woooooof'w woooooof wf wooof wof wof woooof woof woooof wf wooof

us and our fortunes securely. But as all my remonstrances produced
wf wof wof woooooof woooooof. Wof wf wof wf wooooooooooof woooooof

no effect upon Queequeg, I was obliged to acquiesce; and accordingly
wf woooof woof Woooooof, W wof wooooof wf wooooooof; wof wooooooooof

prepared to set about this business with a determined rushing sort
woooooof wf wof wooof woof woooooof woof w woooooooof wooooof woof

of energy and vigor, that should quickly settle that trifling little
wf woooof wof wooof, woof woooof wooooof woooof woof woooooof woooof

affair. Next morning early, leaving Queequeg shut up with Yojo in our
woooof. Woof wooooof wooof, wooooof Woooooof woof wf woof Woof wf wof

little bedroom--for it seemed that it was some sort of Lent or Ramadan,
woooof wooooof--wof wf woooof woof wf wof woof woof wf Woof wf Wooooof,

or day of fasting, humiliation, and prayer with Queequeg and Yojo that
wf wof wf wooooof, wooooooooof, wof woooof woof Woooooof wof Woof woof

day; HOW it was I never could find out, for, though I applied myself
wof; WOF wf wof W wooof wooof woof wof, wof, woooof W wooooof woooof

to it several times, I never could master his liturgies and XXXIX
wf wf wooooof wooof, W wooof wooof woooof wof wooooooof wof WOOOF

Articles--leaving Queequeg, then, fasting on his tomahawk pipe, and Yojo
Woooooof--wooooof Woooooof, woof, wooooof wf wof woooooof woof, wof Woof

warming himself at his sacrificial fire of shavings, I sallied out among
wooooof wooooof wf wof wooooooooof woof wf woooooof, W wooooof wof wooof

the shipping. After much prolonged sauntering and many random inquiries,
wof woooooof. Wooof woof wooooooof woooooooof wof woof woooof wooooooof,

I learnt that there were three ships up for three-years' voyages--The
W woooof woof wooof woof wooof wooof wf wof wooof-wooof' wooooof--Wof

Devil-dam, the Tit-bit, and the Pequod. DEVIL-DAM, I do not know the
Wooof-wof, wof Wof-wof, wof wof Woooof. WOOOF-WOF, W wf wof woof wof

origin of; TIT-BIT is obvious; PEQUOD, you will no doubt remember, was
woooof wf; WOF-WOF wf wooooof; WOOOOF, wof woof wf wooof woooooof, wof

the name of a celebrated tribe of Massachusetts Indians; now extinct
wof woof wf w woooooooof wooof wf Wooooooooooof Wooooof; wof wooooof

as the ancient Medes. I peered and pryed about the Devil-dam; from her,
wf wof wooooof Wooof. W woooof wof wooof wooof wof Wooof-wof; woof wof,

hopped over to the Tit-bit; and finally, going on board the Pequod,
woooof woof wf wof Wof-wof; wof wooooof, wooof wf wooof wof Woooof,

looked around her for a moment, and then decided that this was the very
woooof woooof wof wof w woooof, wof woof wooooof woof woof wof wof woof

ship for us.
woof wof wf.




You may have seen many a quaint craft in your day, for aught I
Wof wof woof woof woof w woooof wooof wf woof wof, wof wooof W

know;--square-toed luggers; mountainous Japanese junks; butter-box
woof;--woooof-woof wooooof; wooooooooof Woooooof wooof; woooof-wof

galliots, and what not; but take my word for it, you never saw such a
woooooof, wof woof wof; wof woof wf woof wof wf, wof wooof wof woof w

rare old craft as this same rare old Pequod. She was a ship of the old
woof wof wooof wf woof woof woof wof Woooof. Wof wof w woof wf wof wof

school, rather small if anything; with an old-fashioned claw-footed look
woooof, woooof wooof wf woooooof; woof wf wof-wooooooof woof-woooof woof

about her. Long seasoned and weather-stained in the typhoons and calms
wooof wof. Woof woooooof wof wooooof-wooooof wf wof woooooof wof wooof

of all four oceans, her old hull's complexion was darkened like a French
wf wof woof woooof, wof wof woof'w woooooooof wof woooooof woof w Woooof

grenadier's, who has alike fought in Egypt and Siberia. Her venerable
wooooooof'w, wof wof wooof woooof wf Wooof wof Wooooof. Wof wooooooof

bows looked bearded. Her masts--cut somewhere on the coast of Japan,
woof woooof wooooof. Wof wooof--wof wooooooof wf wof wooof wf Wooof,

where her original ones were lost overboard in a gale--her masts stood
wooof wof woooooof woof woof woof wooooooof wf w woof--wof wooof wooof

stiffly up like the spines of the three old kings of Cologne. Her
wooooof wf woof wof woooof wf wof wooof wof wooof wf Wooooof. Wof

ancient decks were worn and wrinkled, like the pilgrim-worshipped
wooooof wooof woof woof wof woooooof, woof wof wooooof-woooooooof

flag-stone in Canterbury Cathedral where Becket bled. But to all these
woof-wooof wf Woooooooof Wooooooof wooof Woooof woof. Wof wf wof wooof

her old antiquities, were added new and marvellous features, pertaining
wof wof wooooooooof, woof wooof wof wof woooooooof woooooof, woooooooof

to the wild business that for more than half a century she had followed.
wf wof woof woooooof woof wof woof woof woof w wooooof wof wof woooooof.

Old Captain Peleg, many years her chief-mate, before he commanded
Wof Wooooof Wooof, woof wooof wof wooof-woof, woooof wf wooooooof

another vessel of his own, and now a retired seaman, and one of the
wooooof woooof wf wof wof, wof wof w wooooof woooof, wof wof wf wof

principal owners of the Pequod,--this old Peleg, during the term of his
wooooooof woooof wf wof Woooof,--woof wof Wooof, woooof wof woof wf wof

chief-mateship, had built upon her original grotesqueness, and inlaid
wooof-woooooof, wof wooof woof wof woooooof wooooooooooof, wof woooof

it, all over, with a quaintness both of material and device, unmatched
wf, wof woof, woof w woooooooof woof wf woooooof wof woooof, wooooooof

by anything except it be Thorkill-Hake's carved buckler or bedstead. She
wf woooooof woooof wf wf Woooooof-Woof'w woooof wooooof wf woooooof. Wof

was apparelled like any barbaric Ethiopian emperor, his neck heavy with
wof woooooooof woof wof woooooof Wooooooof wooooof, wof woof wooof woof

pendants of polished ivory. She was a thing of trophies. A cannibal of
woooooof wf woooooof wooof. Wof wof w wooof wf woooooof. W woooooof wf

a craft, tricking herself forth in the chased bones of her enemies. All
w wooof, woooooof wooooof wooof wf wof woooof wooof wf wof wooooof. Wof

round, her unpanelled, open bulwarks were garnished like one continuous
wooof, wof woooooooof, woof woooooof woof wooooooof woof wof woooooooof

jaw, with the long sharp teeth of the sperm whale, inserted there for
wof, woof wof woof wooof wooof wf wof wooof wooof, woooooof wooof wof

pins, to fasten her old hempen thews and tendons to. Those thews ran not
woof, wf woooof wof wof woooof wooof wof wooooof wf. Wooof wooof wof wof

through base blocks of land wood, but deftly travelled over sheaves of
wooooof woof woooof wf woof woof, wof woooof wooooooof woof wooooof wf

sea-ivory. Scorning a turnstile wheel at her reverend helm, she sported
wof-wooof. Woooooof w wooooooof wooof wf wof woooooof woof, wof wooooof

there a tiller; and that tiller was in one mass, curiously carved
wooof w woooof; wof woof woooof wof wf wof woof, wooooooof woooof

from the long narrow lower jaw of her hereditary foe. The helmsman who
woof wof woof woooof wooof wof wf wof woooooooof wof. Wof woooooof wof

steered by that tiller in a tempest, felt like the Tartar, when he holds
wooooof wf woof woooof wf w wooooof, woof woof wof Woooof, woof wf wooof

back his fiery steed by clutching its jaw. A noble craft, but somehow a
woof wof wooof wooof wf wooooooof wof wof. W wooof wooof, wof wooooof w

most melancholy! All noble things are touched with that.
woof woooooooof! Wof wooof woooof wof wooooof woof woof.




Now when I looked about the quarter-deck, for some one having authority,
Wof woof W woooof wooof wof wooooof-woof, wof woof wof woooof wooooooof,

in order to propose myself as a candidate for the voyage, at first I saw
wf wooof wf wooooof woooof wf w wooooooof wof wof woooof, wf wooof W wof

nobody; but I could not well overlook a strange sort of tent, or
woooof; wof W wooof wof woof woooooof w wooooof woof wf woof, wf

rather wigwam, pitched a little behind the main-mast. It seemed only
woooof woooof, wooooof w woooof woooof wof woof-woof. Wf woooof woof

a temporary erection used in port. It was of a conical shape, some ten
w wooooooof woooooof woof wf woof. Wf wof wf w wooooof wooof, woof wof

feet high; consisting of the long, huge slabs of limber black bone taken
woof woof; woooooooof wf wof woof, woof wooof wf woooof wooof woof wooof

from the middle and highest part of the jaws of the right-whale.
woof wof woooof wof wooooof woof wf wof woof wf wof wooof-wooof.

Planted with their broad ends on the deck, a circle of these slabs laced
Wooooof woof wooof wooof woof wf wof woof, w woooof wf wooof wooof wooof

together, mutually sloped towards each other, and at the apex united in
woooooof, woooooof woooof wooooof woof wooof, wof wf wof woof woooof wf

a tufted point, where the loose hairy fibres waved to and fro like the
w woooof wooof, wooof wof wooof wooof woooof wooof wf wof wof woof wof

top-knot on some old Pottowottamie Sachem's head. A triangular opening
wof-woof wf woof wof Wooooooooooof Woooof'w woof. W woooooooof wooooof

faced towards the bows of the ship, so that the insider commanded a
wooof wooooof wof woof wf wof woof, wf woof wof wooooof wooooooof w

complete view forward.
woooooof woof wooooof.




And half concealed in this queer tenement, I at length found one who
Wof woof wooooooof wf woof wooof woooooof, W wf woooof wooof wof wof

by his aspect seemed to have authority; and who, it being noon, and
wf wof woooof woooof wf woof wooooooof; wof wof, wf wooof woof, wof

the ship's work suspended, was now enjoying respite from the burden of
wof woof'w woof wooooooof, wof wof woooooof wooooof woof wof woooof wf

command. He was seated on an old-fashioned oaken chair, wriggling all
wooooof. Wf wof woooof wf wf wof-wooooooof wooof wooof, wooooooof wof

over with curious carving; and the bottom of which was formed of a
woof woof wooooof wooooof; wof wof woooof wf wooof wof woooof wf w

stout interlacing of the same elastic stuff of which the wigwam was
wooof wooooooooof wf wof woof wooooof wooof wf wooof wof woooof wof

constructed.
wooooooooof.




There was nothing so very particular, perhaps, about the appearance of
Wooof wof wooooof wf woof woooooooof, wooooof, wooof wof woooooooof wf

the elderly man I saw; he was brown and brawny, like most old seamen,
wof wooooof wof W wof; wf wof wooof wof woooof, woof woof wof woooof,

and heavily rolled up in blue pilot-cloth, cut in the Quaker style;
wof wooooof woooof wf wf woof wooof-wooof, wof wf wof Woooof wooof;

only there was a fine and almost microscopic net-work of the minutest
woof wooof wof w woof wof woooof wooooooooof wof-woof wf wof woooooof

wrinkles interlacing round his eyes, which must have arisen from
woooooof wooooooooof wooof wof woof, wooof woof woof woooof woof

his continual sailings in many hard gales, and always looking to
wof wooooooof woooooof wf woof woof wooof, wof woooof wooooof wf

windward;--for this causes the muscles about the eyes to become pursed
woooooof;--wof woof woooof wof wooooof wooof wof woof wf woooof woooof

together. Such eye-wrinkles are very effectual in a scowl.
woooooof. Woof wof-woooooof wof woof wooooooof wf w wooof.




"Is this the Captain of the Pequod?" said I, advancing to the door of
"Wf woof wof Wooooof wf wof Woooof?" woof W, wooooooof wf wof woof wf

the tent.
wof woof.




"Supposing it be the captain of the Pequod, what dost thou want of him?"
"Wooooooof wf wf wof wooooof wf wof Woooof, woof woof woof woof wf wof?"

he demanded.
wf woooooof.




"I was thinking of shipping."
"W wof woooooof wf woooooof."




"Thou wast, wast thou? I see thou art no Nantucketer--ever been in a
"Woof woof, woof woof? W wof woof wof wf Wooooooooof--woof woof wf w

stove boat?"
wooof woof?"




"No, Sir, I never have."
"Wf, Wof, W wooof woof."




"Dost know nothing at all about whaling, I dare say--eh?
"Woof woof wooooof wf wof wooof wooooof, W woof wof--wf?




"Nothing, Sir; but I have no doubt I shall soon learn. I've been several
"Wooooof, Wof; wof W woof wf wooof W wooof woof wooof. W'wf woof wooooof

voyages in the merchant service, and I think that--"
wooooof wf wof woooooof wooooof, wof W wooof woof--"




"Merchant service be damned. Talk not that lingo to me. Dost see that
"Woooooof wooooof wf woooof. Woof wof woof wooof wf wf. Woof wof woof

leg?--I'll take that leg away from thy stern, if ever thou talkest of
wof?--W'wf woof woof wof woof woof wof wooof, wf woof woof wooooof wf

the marchant service to me again. Marchant service indeed! I suppose now
wof woooooof wooooof wf wf wooof. Woooooof wooooof woooof! W wooooof wof

ye feel considerable proud of having served in those marchant ships.
wf woof woooooooooof wooof wf woooof woooof wf wooof woooooof wooof.

But flukes! man, what makes thee want to go a whaling, eh?--it looks
Wof woooof! wof, woof wooof woof woof wf wf w wooooof, wf?--wf wooof

a little suspicious, don't it, eh?--Hast not been a pirate, hast
w woooof woooooooof, wof'w wf, wf?--Woof wof woof w woooof, woof

thou?--Didst not rob thy last Captain, didst thou?--Dost not think of
woof?--Wooof wof wof wof woof Wooooof, wooof woof?--Woof wof wooof wf

murdering the officers when thou gettest to sea?"
wooooooof wof woooooof woof woof wooooof wf wof?"




I protested my innocence of these things. I saw that under the mask
W wooooooof wf wooooooof wf wooof woooof. W wof woof wooof wof woof

of these half humorous innuendoes, this old seaman, as an insulated
wf wooof woof woooooof woooooooof, woof wof woooof, wf wf wooooooof

Quakerish Nantucketer, was full of his insular prejudices, and rather
Wooooooof Wooooooooof, wof woof wf wof wooooof woooooooof, wof woooof

distrustful of all aliens, unless they hailed from Cape Cod or the
wooooooooof wf wof woooof, woooof woof woooof woof Woof Wof wf wof

Vineyard.
Woooooof.




"But what takes thee a-whaling? I want to know that before I think of
"Wof woof wooof woof w-wooooof? W woof wf woof woof woooof W wooof wf

shipping ye."
woooooof wf."




"Well, sir, I want to see what whaling is. I want to see the world."
"Woof, wof, W woof wf wof woof wooooof wf. W woof wf wof wof wooof."




"Want to see what whaling is, eh? Have ye clapped eye on Captain Ahab?"
"Woof wf wof woof wooooof wf, wf? Woof wf wooooof wof wf Wooooof Woof?"




"Who is Captain Ahab, sir?"
"Wof wf Wooooof Woof, wof?"




"Aye, aye, I thought so. Captain Ahab is the Captain of this ship."
"Wof, wof, W wooooof wf. Wooooof Woof wf wof Wooooof wf woof woof."




"I am mistaken then. I thought I was speaking to the Captain himself."
"W wf woooooof woof. W wooooof W wof woooooof wf wof Wooooof wooooof."




"Thou art speaking to Captain Peleg--that's who ye are speaking to,
"Woof wof woooooof wf Wooooof Wooof--woof'w wof wf wof woooooof wf,

young man. It belongs to me and Captain Bildad to see the Pequod fitted
wooof wof. Wf wooooof wf wf wof Wooooof Woooof wf wof wof Woooof woooof

out for the voyage, and supplied with all her needs, including crew. We
wof wof wof woooof, wof woooooof woof wof wof wooof, wooooooof woof. Wf

are part owners and agents. But as I was going to say, if thou wantest
wof woof woooof wof woooof. Wof wf W wof wooof wf wof, wf woof wooooof

to know what whaling is, as thou tellest ye do, I can put ye in a way of
wf woof woof wooooof wf, wf woof wooooof wf wf, W wof wof wf wf w wof wf

finding it out before ye bind yourself to it, past backing out. Clap
wooooof wf wof woooof wf woof woooooof wf wf, woof wooooof wof. Woof

eye on Captain Ahab, young man, and thou wilt find that he has only one
wof wf Wooooof Woof, wooof wof, wof woof woof woof woof wf wof woof wof

leg."
wof."




"What do you mean, sir? Was the other one lost by a whale?"
"Woof wf wof woof, wof? Wof wof wooof wof woof wf w wooof?"




"Lost by a whale! Young man, come nearer to me: it was devoured,
"Woof wf w wooof! Wooof wof, woof woooof wf wf: wf wof woooooof,

chewed up, crunched by the monstrousest parmacetty that ever chipped a
woooof wf, woooooof wf wof woooooooooof woooooooof woof woof wooooof w

boat!--ah, ah!"
woof!--wf, wf!"




I was a little alarmed by his energy, perhaps also a little touched at
W wof w woooof wooooof wf wof woooof, wooooof woof w woooof wooooof wf

the hearty grief in his concluding exclamation, but said as calmly as I
wof woooof wooof wf wof woooooooof wooooooooof, wof woof wf woooof wf W

could, "What you say is no doubt true enough, sir; but how could I know
wooof, "Woof wof wof wf wf wooof woof woooof, wof; wof wof wooof W woof

there was any peculiar ferocity in that particular whale, though indeed
wooof wof wof woooooof woooooof wf woof woooooooof wooof, woooof woooof

I might have inferred as much from the simple fact of the accident."
W wooof woof woooooof wf woof woof wof woooof woof wf wof woooooof."




"Look ye now, young man, thy lungs are a sort of soft, d'ye see; thou
"Woof wf wof, wooof wof, wof wooof wof w woof wf woof, w'wf wof; woof

dost not talk shark a bit. SURE, ye've been to sea before now; sure of
woof wof woof wooof w wof. WOOF, wf'wf woof wf wof woooof wof; woof wf

that?"
woof?"




"Sir," said I, "I thought I told you that I had been four voyages in the
"Wof," woof W, "W wooooof W woof wof woof W wof woof woof wooooof wf wof

merchant--"
woooooof--"




"Hard down out of that! Mind what I said about the marchant
"Woof woof wof wf woof! Woof woof W woof wooof wof woooooof

service--don't aggravate me--I won't have it. But let us understand each
wooooof--wof'w wooooooof wf--W wof'w woof wf. Wof wof wf woooooooof woof

other. I have given thee a hint about what whaling is; do ye yet feel
wooof. W woof wooof woof w woof wooof woof wooooof wf; wf wf wof woof

inclined for it?"
woooooof wof wf?"




"I do, sir."
"W wf, wof."




"Very good. Now, art thou the man to pitch a harpoon down a live whale's
"Woof woof. Wof, wof woof wof wof wf wooof w wooooof woof w woof wooof'w

throat, and then jump after it? Answer, quick!"
woooof, wof woof woof wooof wf? Woooof, wooof!"




"I am, sir, if it should be positively indispensable to do so; not to be
"W wf, wof, wf wf woooof wf woooooooof wooooooooooof wf wf wf; wof wf wf

got rid of, that is; which I don't take to be the fact."
wof wof wf, woof wf; wooof W wof'w woof wf wf wof woof."




"Good again. Now then, thou not only wantest to go a-whaling, to find
"Woof wooof. Wof woof, woof wof woof wooooof wf wf w-wooooof, wf woof

out by experience what whaling is, but ye also want to go in order to
wof wf woooooooof woof wooooof wf, wof wf woof woof wf wf wf wooof wf

see the world? Was not that what ye said? I thought so. Well then, just
wof wof wooof? Wof wof woof woof wf woof? W wooooof wf. Woof woof, woof

step forward there, and take a peep over the weather-bow, and then back
woof wooooof wooof, wof woof w woof woof wof wooooof-wof, wof woof woof

to me and tell me what ye see there."
wf wf wof woof wf woof wf wof wooof."




For a moment I stood a little puzzled by this curious request, not
Wof w woooof W wooof w woooof wooooof wf woof wooooof wooooof, wof

knowing exactly how to take it, whether humorously or in earnest. But
wooooof wooooof wof wf woof wf, wooooof woooooooof wf wf wooooof. Wof

concentrating all his crow's feet into one scowl, Captain Peleg started
wooooooooooof wof wof woof'w woof woof wof wooof, Wooooof Wooof wooooof

me on the errand.
wf wf wof woooof.




Going forward and glancing over the weather bow, I perceived that the
Wooof wooooof wof woooooof woof wof wooooof wof, W wooooooof woof wof

ship swinging to her anchor with the flood-tide, was now obliquely
woof woooooof wf wof woooof woof wof wooof-woof, wof wof wooooooof

pointing towards the open ocean. The prospect was unlimited, but
woooooof wooooof wof woof wooof. Wof woooooof wof wooooooof, wof

exceedingly monotonous and forbidding; not the slightest variety that I
wooooooooof woooooooof wof woooooooof; wof wof wooooooof wooooof woof W

could see.
wooof wof.




"Well, what's the report?" said Peleg when I came back; "what did ye
"Woof, woof'w wof woooof?" woof Wooof woof W woof woof; "woof wof wf

see?"
wof?"




"Not much," I replied--"nothing but water; considerable horizon though,
"Wof woof," W wooooof--"wooooof wof wooof; woooooooooof wooooof woooof,

and there's a squall coming up, I think."
wof wooof'w w woooof woooof wf, W wooof."




"Well, what does thou think then of seeing the world? Do ye wish to go
"Woof, woof woof woof wooof woof wf woooof wof wooof? Wf wf woof wf wf

round Cape Horn to see any more of it, eh? Can't ye see the world where
wooof Woof Woof wf wof wof woof wf wf, wf? Wof'w wf wof wof wooof wooof

you stand?"
wof wooof?"




I was a little staggered, but go a-whaling I must, and I would; and the
W wof w woooof wooooooof, wof wf w-wooooof W woof, wof W wooof; wof wof

Pequod was as good a ship as any--I thought the best--and all this I now
Woooof wof wf woof w woof wf wof--W wooooof wof woof--wof wof woof W wof

repeated to Peleg. Seeing me so determined, he expressed his willingness
woooooof wf Wooof. Woooof wf wf woooooooof, wf wooooooof wof wooooooooof

to ship me.
wf woof wf.




"And thou mayest as well sign the papers right off," he added--"come
"Wof woof woooof wf woof woof wof woooof wooof wof," wf wooof--"woof

along with ye." And so saying, he led the way below deck into the cabin.
wooof woof wf." Wof wf woooof, wf wof wof wof wooof woof woof wof wooof.




Seated on the transom was what seemed to me a most uncommon and
Woooof wf wof wooooof wof woof woooof wf wf w woof woooooof wof

surprising figure. It turned out to be Captain Bildad, who along with
woooooooof woooof. Wf woooof wof wf wf Wooooof Woooof, wof wooof woof

Captain Peleg was one of the largest owners of the vessel; the other
Wooooof Wooof wof wof wf wof wooooof woooof wf wof woooof; wof wooof

shares, as is sometimes the case in these ports, being held by a crowd
woooof, wf wf wooooooof wof woof wf wooof wooof, wooof woof wf w wooof

of old annuitants; widows, fatherless children, and chancery wards; each
wf wof woooooooof; woooof, woooooooof woooooof, wof woooooof wooof; woof

owning about the value of a timber head, or a foot of plank, or a nail
woooof wooof wof wooof wf w woooof woof, wf w woof wf wooof, wf w woof

or two in the ship. People in Nantucket invest their money in whaling
wf wof wf wof woof. Woooof wf Wooooooof woooof wooof wooof wf wooooof

vessels, the same way that you do yours in approved state stocks
wooooof, wof woof wof woof wof wf wooof wf woooooof wooof woooof

bringing in good interest.
woooooof wf woof woooooof.




Now, Bildad, like Peleg, and indeed many other Nantucketers, was a
Wof, Woooof, woof Wooof, wof woooof woof wooof Woooooooooof, wof w

Quaker, the island having been originally settled by that sect; and to
Woooof, wof woooof woooof woof woooooooof wooooof wf woof woof; wof wf

this day its inhabitants in general retain in an uncommon measure the
woof wof wof wooooooooof wf wooooof woooof wf wf woooooof wooooof wof

peculiarities of the Quaker, only variously and anomalously modified
wooooooooooof wf wof Woooof, woof wooooooof wof wooooooooof woooooof

by things altogether alien and heterogeneous. For some of these same
wf woooof woooooooof wooof wof wooooooooooof. Wof woof wf wooof woof

Quakers are the most sanguinary of all sailors and whale-hunters. They
Wooooof wof wof woof woooooooof wf wof wooooof wof wooof-wooooof. Woof

are fighting Quakers; they are Quakers with a vengeance.
wof woooooof Wooooof; woof wof Wooooof woof w wooooooof.




So that there are instances among them of men, who, named with Scripture
Wf woof wooof wof wooooooof wooof woof wf wof, wof, wooof woof Wooooooof

names--a singularly common fashion on the island--and in childhood
wooof--w woooooooof woooof wooooof wf wof woooof--wof wf wooooooof

naturally imbibing the stately dramatic thee and thou of the Quaker
wooooooof woooooof wof wooooof woooooof woof wof woof wf wof Woooof

idiom; still, from the audacious, daring, and boundless adventure
wooof; wooof, woof wof wooooooof, woooof, wof wooooooof wooooooof

of their subsequent lives, strangely blend with these unoutgrown
wf wooof woooooooof wooof, wooooooof wooof woof wooof woooooooof

peculiarities, a thousand bold dashes of character, not unworthy a
wooooooooooof, w woooooof woof woooof wf wooooooof, wof woooooof w

Scandinavian sea-king, or a poetical Pagan Roman. And when these things
Woooooooooof wof-woof, wf w woooooof Wooof Wooof. Wof woof wooof woooof

unite in a man of greatly superior natural force, with a globular brain
wooof wf w wof wf wooooof woooooof wooooof wooof, woof w woooooof wooof

and a ponderous heart; who has also by the stillness and seclusion
wof w wooooooof wooof; wof wof woof wf wof wooooooof wof wooooooof

of many long night-watches in the remotest waters, and beneath
wf woof woof wooof-wooooof wf wof woooooof woooof, wof wooooof

constellations never seen here at the north, been led to think
woooooooooooof wooof woof woof wf wof wooof, woof wof wf wooof

untraditionally and independently; receiving all nature's sweet or
wooooooooooooof wof wooooooooooof; wooooooof wof woooof'w wooof wf

savage impressions fresh from her own virgin voluntary and confiding
woooof wooooooooof wooof woof wof wof woooof wooooooof wof wooooooof

breast, and thereby chiefly, but with some help from accidental
woooof, wof wooooof wooooof, wof woof woof woof woof woooooooof

advantages, to learn a bold and nervous lofty language--that man makes
woooooooof, wf wooof w woof wof wooooof wooof woooooof--woof wof wooof

one in a whole nation's census--a mighty pageant creature, formed for
wof wf w wooof woooof'w woooof--w woooof wooooof woooooof, woooof wof

noble tragedies. Nor will it at all detract from him, dramatically
wooof wooooooof. Wof woof wf wf wof wooooof woof wof, woooooooooof

regarded, if either by birth or other circumstances, he have what seems
woooooof, wf woooof wf wooof wf wooof wooooooooooof, wf woof woof wooof

a half wilful overruling morbidness at the bottom of his nature. For all
w woof woooof woooooooof woooooooof wf wof woooof wf wof woooof. Wof wof

men tragically great are made so through a certain morbidness. Be sure
wof woooooooof wooof wof woof wf wooooof w wooooof woooooooof. Wf woof

of this, O young ambition, all mortal greatness is but disease. But,
wf woof, W wooof woooooof, wof woooof wooooooof wf wof wooooof. Wof,

as yet we have not to do with such an one, but with quite another; and
wf wof wf woof wof wf wf woof woof wf wof, wof woof wooof wooooof; wof

still a man, who, if indeed peculiar, it only results again from another
wooof w wof, wof, wf woooof woooooof, wf woof wooooof wooof woof wooooof

phase of the Quaker, modified by individual circumstances.
wooof wf wof Woooof, woooooof wf woooooooof wooooooooooof.




Like Captain Peleg, Captain Bildad was a well-to-do, retired whaleman.
Woof Wooooof Wooof, Wooooof Woooof wof w woof-wf-wf, wooooof woooooof.

But unlike Captain Peleg--who cared not a rush for what are called
Wof woooof Wooooof Wooof--wof wooof wof w woof wof woof wof woooof

serious things, and indeed deemed those self-same serious things the
wooooof woooof, wof woooof woooof wooof woof-woof wooooof woooof wof

veriest of all trifles--Captain Bildad had not only been originally
wooooof wf wof wooooof--Wooooof Woooof wof wof woof woof woooooooof

educated according to the strictest sect of Nantucket Quakerism, but all
woooooof wooooooof wf wof wooooooof woof wf Wooooooof Wooooooof, wof wof

his subsequent ocean life, and the sight of many unclad, lovely island
wof woooooooof wooof woof, wof wof wooof wf woof woooof, woooof woooof

creatures, round the Horn--all that had not moved this native born
wooooooof, wooof wof Woof--wof woof wof wof wooof woof woooof woof

Quaker one single jot, had not so much as altered one angle of his
Woooof wof woooof wof, wof wof wf woof wf wooooof wof wooof wf wof

vest. Still, for all this immutableness, was there some lack of
woof. Wooof, wof wof woof wooooooooooof, wof wooof woof woof wf

common consistency about worthy Captain Peleg. Though refusing, from
woooof wooooooooof wooof woooof Wooooof Wooof. Woooof woooooof, woof

conscientious scruples, to bear arms against land invaders, yet himself
wooooooooooof woooooof, wf woof woof wooooof woof woooooof, wof wooooof

had illimitably invaded the Atlantic and Pacific; and though a sworn foe
wof wooooooooof wooooof wof Woooooof wof Wooooof; wof woooof w wooof wof

to human bloodshed, yet had he in his straight-bodied coat, spilled tuns
wf wooof wooooooof, wof wof wf wf wof woooooof-woooof woof, wooooof woof

upon tuns of leviathan gore. How now in the contemplative evening of his
woof woof wf wooooooof woof. Wof wof wf wof wooooooooooof wooooof wf wof

days, the pious Bildad reconciled these things in the reminiscence, I do
woof, wof wooof Woooof woooooooof wooof woooof wf wof woooooooooof, W wf

not know; but it did not seem to concern him much, and very probably
wof woof; wof wf wof wof woof wf wooooof wof woof, wof woof woooooof

he had long since come to the sage and sensible conclusion that a man's
wf wof woof wooof woof wf wof woof wof woooooof woooooooof woof w wof'w

religion is one thing, and this practical world quite another. This
woooooof wf wof wooof, wof woof wooooooof wooof wooof wooooof. Woof

world pays dividends. Rising from a little cabin-boy in short clothes
wooof woof wooooooof. Woooof woof w woooof wooof-wof wf wooof wooooof

of the drabbest drab, to a harpooneer in a broad shad-bellied waistcoat;
wf wof woooooof woof, wf w woooooooof wf w wooof woof-wooooof wooooooof;

from that becoming boat-header, chief-mate, and captain, and finally a
woof woof woooooof woof-woooof, wooof-woof, wof wooooof, wof wooooof w

ship owner; Bildad, as I hinted before, had concluded his adventurous
woof wooof; Woooof, wf W woooof woooof, wof wooooooof wof wooooooooof

career by wholly retiring from active life at the goodly age of
woooof wf woooof woooooof woof woooof woof wf wof woooof wof wf

sixty, and dedicating his remaining days to the quiet receiving of his
wooof, wof woooooooof wof wooooooof woof wf wof wooof wooooooof wf wof

well-earned income.
woof-woooof woooof.




Now, Bildad, I am sorry to say, had the reputation of being an
Wof, Woooof, W wf wooof wf wof, wof wof woooooooof wf wooof wf

incorrigible old hunks, and in his sea-going days, a bitter, hard
woooooooooof wof wooof, wof wf wof wof-wooof woof, w woooof, woof

task-master. They told me in Nantucket, though it certainly seems a
woof-woooof. Woof woof wf wf Wooooooof, woooof wf wooooooof wooof w

curious story, that when he sailed the old Categut whaleman, his crew,
wooooof wooof, woof woof wf woooof wof wof Wooooof woooooof, wof woof,

upon arriving home, were mostly all carried ashore to the hospital, sore
woof woooooof woof, woof woooof wof wooooof woooof wf wof woooooof, woof

exhausted and worn out. For a pious man, especially for a Quaker, he was
wooooooof wof woof wof. Wof w wooof wof, woooooooof wof w Woooof, wf wof

certainly rather hard-hearted, to say the least. He never used to swear,
wooooooof woooof woof-wooooof, wf wof wof wooof. Wf wooof woof wf wooof,

though, at his men, they said; but somehow he got an inordinate
woooof, wf wof wof, woof woof; wof wooooof wf wof wf woooooooof

quantity of cruel, unmitigated hard work out of them. When Bildad was a
woooooof wf wooof, wooooooooof woof woof wof wf woof. Woof Woooof wof w

chief-mate, to have his drab-coloured eye intently looking at you, made
wooof-woof, wf woof wof woof-woooooof wof woooooof wooooof wf wof, woof

you feel completely nervous, till you could clutch something--a hammer
wof woof woooooooof wooooof, woof wof wooof woooof wooooooof--w woooof

or a marling-spike, and go to work like mad, at something or other,
wf w wooooof-wooof, wof wf wf woof woof wof, wf wooooooof wf wooof,

never mind what. Indolence and idleness perished before him. His own
wooof woof woof. Wooooooof wof woooooof woooooof woooof wof. Wof wof

person was the exact embodiment of his utilitarian character. On his
woooof wof wof wooof woooooooof wf wof wooooooooof wooooooof. Wf wof

long, gaunt body, he carried no spare flesh, no superfluous beard,
woof, wooof woof, wf wooooof wf wooof wooof, wf wooooooooof wooof,

his chin having a soft, economical nap to it, like the worn nap of his
wof woof woooof w woof, woooooooof wof wf wf, woof wof woof wof wf wof

broad-brimmed hat.
wooof-wooooof wof.




Such, then, was the person that I saw seated on the transom when I
Woof, woof, wof wof woooof woof W wof woooof wf wof wooooof woof W

followed Captain Peleg down into the cabin. The space between the decks
woooooof Wooooof Wooof woof woof wof wooof. Wof wooof wooooof wof wooof

was small; and there, bolt-upright, sat old Bildad, who always sat so,
wof wooof; wof wooof, woof-wooooof, wof wof Woooof, wof woooof wof wf,

and never leaned, and this to save his coat tails. His broad-brim was
wof wooof woooof, wof woof wf woof wof woof wooof. Wof wooof-woof wof

placed beside him; his legs were stiffly crossed; his drab vesture was
woooof woooof wof; wof woof woof wooooof wooooof; wof woof wooooof wof

buttoned up to his chin; and spectacles on nose, he seemed absorbed in
woooooof wf wf wof woof; wof woooooooof wf woof, wf woooof woooooof wf

reading from a ponderous volume.
wooooof woof w wooooooof woooof.




"Bildad," cried Captain Peleg, "at it again, Bildad, eh? Ye have been
"Woooof," wooof Wooooof Wooof, "wf wf wooof, Woooof, wf? Wf woof woof

studying those Scriptures, now, for the last thirty years, to my certain
woooooof wooof Woooooooof, wof, wof wof woof woooof wooof, wf wf wooooof

knowledge. How far ye got, Bildad?"
wooooooof. Wof wof wf wof, Woooof?"




As if long habituated to such profane talk from his old shipmate,
Wf wf woof woooooooof wf woof wooooof woof woof wof wof woooooof,

Bildad, without noticing his present irreverence, quietly looked up, and
Woooof, wooooof woooooof wof wooooof wooooooooof, wooooof woooof wf, wof

seeing me, glanced again inquiringly towards Peleg.
woooof wf, wooooof wooof wooooooooof wooooof Wooof.




"He says he's our man, Bildad," said Peleg, "he wants to ship."
"Wf woof wf'w wof wof, Woooof," woof Wooof, "wf wooof wf woof."




"Dost thee?" said Bildad, in a hollow tone, and turning round to me.
"Woof woof?" woof Woooof, wf w woooof woof, wof wooooof wooof wf wf.




"I dost," said I unconsciously, he was so intense a Quaker.
"W woof," woof W wooooooooooof, wf wof wf wooooof w Woooof.




"What do ye think of him, Bildad?" said Peleg.
"Woof wf wf wooof wf wof, Woooof?" woof Wooof.




"He'll do," said Bildad, eyeing me, and then went on spelling away at
"Wf'wf wf," woof Woooof, woooof wf, wof woof woof wf woooooof woof wf

his book in a mumbling tone quite audible.
wof woof wf w woooooof woof wooof wooooof.




I thought him the queerest old Quaker I ever saw, especially as Peleg,
W wooooof wof wof woooooof wof Woooof W woof wof, woooooooof wf Wooof,

his friend and old shipmate, seemed such a blusterer. But I said
wof woooof wof wof woooooof, woooof woof w wooooooof. Wof W woof

nothing, only looking round me sharply. Peleg now threw open a chest,
wooooof, woof wooooof wooof wf wooooof. Wooof wof wooof woof w wooof,

and drawing forth the ship's articles, placed pen and ink before him,
wof wooooof wooof wof woof'w woooooof, woooof wof wof wof woooof wof,

and seated himself at a little table. I began to think it was high time
wof woooof wooooof wf w woooof wooof. W wooof wf wooof wf wof woof woof

to settle with myself at what terms I would be willing to engage for the
wf woooof woof woooof wf woof wooof W wooof wf wooooof wf woooof wof wof

voyage. I was already aware that in the whaling business they paid no
woooof. W wof wooooof wooof woof wf wof wooooof woooooof woof woof wf

wages; but all hands, including the captain, received certain shares of
wooof; wof wof wooof, wooooooof wof wooooof, woooooof wooooof woooof wf

the profits called lays, and that these lays were proportioned to the
wof wooooof woooof woof, wof woof wooof woof woof woooooooooof wf wof

degree of importance pertaining to the respective duties of the ship's
woooof wf woooooooof woooooooof wf wof woooooooof woooof wf wof woof'w

company. I was also aware that being a green hand at whaling, my own
wooooof. W wof woof wooof woof wooof w wooof woof wf wooooof, wf wof

lay would not be very large; but considering that I was used to the sea,
wof wooof wof wf woof wooof; wof wooooooooof woof W wof woof wf wof wof,

could steer a ship, splice a rope, and all that, I made no doubt that
wooof wooof w woof, woooof w woof, wof wof woof, W woof wf wooof woof

from all I had heard I should be offered at least the 275th lay--that
woof wof W wof wooof W woooof wf wooooof wf wooof wof wooof wof--woof

is, the 275th part of the clear net proceeds of the voyage, whatever
wf, wof wooof woof wf wof wooof wof woooooof wf wof woooof, woooooof

that might eventually amount to. And though the 275th lay was what they
woof wooof woooooooof woooof wf. Wof woooof wof wooof wof wof woof woof

call a rather LONG LAY, yet it was better than nothing; and if we had a
woof w woooof WOOF WOF, wof wf wof woooof woof wooooof; wof wf wf wof w

lucky voyage, might pretty nearly pay for the clothing I would wear out
wooof woooof, wooof woooof woooof wof wof wof woooooof W wooof woof wof

on it, not to speak of my three years' beef and board, for which I would
wf wf, wof wf wooof wf wf wooof wooof' woof wof wooof, wof wooof W wooof

not have to pay one stiver.
wof woof wf wof wof woooof.




It might be thought that this was a poor way to accumulate a princely
Wf wooof wf wooooof woof woof wof w woof wof wf woooooooof w woooooof

fortune--and so it was, a very poor way indeed. But I am one of those
wooooof--wof wf wf wof, w woof woof wof woooof. Wof W wf wof wf wooof

that never take on about princely fortunes, and am quite content if the
woof wooof woof wf wooof woooooof woooooof, wof wf wooof wooooof wf wof

world is ready to board and lodge me, while I am putting up at this grim
wooof wf wooof wf wooof wof wooof wf, wooof W wf wooooof wf wf woof woof

sign of the Thunder Cloud. Upon the whole, I thought that the 275th lay
woof wf wof Wooooof Wooof. Woof wof wooof, W wooooof woof wof wooof wof

would be about the fair thing, but would not have been surprised had I
wooof wf wooof wof woof wooof, wof wooof wof woof woof wooooooof wof W

been offered the 200th, considering I was of a broad-shouldered make.
woof wooooof wof wooof, wooooooooof W wof wf w wooof-woooooooof woof.




But one thing, nevertheless, that made me a little distrustful about
Wof wof wooof, woooooooooof, woof woof wf w woooof wooooooooof wooof

receiving a generous share of the profits was this: Ashore, I had heard
wooooooof w woooooof wooof wf wof wooooof wof woof: Woooof, W wof wooof

something of both Captain Peleg and his unaccountable old crony Bildad;
wooooooof wf woof Wooooof Wooof wof wof wooooooooooof wof wooof Woooof;

how that they being the principal proprietors of the Pequod, therefore
wof woof woof wooof wof wooooooof wooooooooof wf wof Woooof, wooooooof

the other and more inconsiderable and scattered owners, left nearly the
wof wooof wof woof woooooooooooof wof wooooooof woooof, woof woooof wof

whole management of the ship's affairs to these two. And I did not know
wooof woooooooof wf wof woof'w wooooof wf wooof wof. Wof W wof wof woof

but what the stingy old Bildad might have a mighty deal to say about
wof woof wof woooof wof Woooof wooof woof w woooof woof wf wof wooof

shipping hands, especially as I now found him on board the Pequod,
woooooof wooof, woooooooof wf W wof wooof wof wf wooof wof Woooof,

quite at home there in the cabin, and reading his Bible as if at his
wooof wf woof wooof wf wof wooof, wof wooooof wof Wooof wf wf wf wof

own fireside. Now while Peleg was vainly trying to mend a pen with his
wof woooooof. Wof wooof Wooof wof woooof woooof wf woof w wof woof wof

jack-knife, old Bildad, to my no small surprise, considering that he was
woof-wooof, wof Woooof, wf wf wf wooof woooooof, wooooooooof woof wf wof

such an interested party in these proceedings; Bildad never heeded
woof wf woooooooof wooof wf wooof wooooooooof; Woooof wooof woooof

us, but went on mumbling to himself out of his book, "LAY not up for
wf, wof woof wf woooooof wf wooooof wof wf wof woof, "WOF wof wf wof

yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth--"
woooooooof wooooooof woof wooof, wooof woof--"




"Well, Captain Bildad," interrupted Peleg, "what d'ye say, what lay
"Woof, Wooooof Woooof," wooooooooof Wooof, "woof w'wf wof, woof wof

shall we give this young man?"
wooof wf woof woof wooof wof?"




"Thou knowest best," was the sepulchral reply, "the seven hundred and
"Woof wooooof woof," wof wof woooooooof wooof, "wof wooof wooooof wof

seventy-seventh wouldn't be too much, would it?--'where moth and rust do
wooooof-wooooof woooof'w wf wof woof, wooof wf?--'wooof woof wof woof wf

corrupt, but LAY--'"
wooooof, wof WOF--'"




LAY, indeed, thought I, and such a lay! the seven hundred and
WOF, woooof, wooooof W, wof woof w wof! wof wooof wooooof wof

seventy-seventh! Well, old Bildad, you are determined that I, for one,
wooooof-wooooof! Woof, wof Woooof, wof wof woooooooof woof W, wof wof,

shall not LAY up many LAYS here below, where moth and rust do corrupt.
wooof wof WOF wf woof WOOF woof wooof, wooof woof wof woof wf wooooof.

It was an exceedingly LONG LAY that, indeed; and though from the
Wf wof wf wooooooooof WOOF WOF woof, woooof; wof woooof woof wof

magnitude of the figure it might at first deceive a landsman, yet
wooooooof wf wof woooof wf wooof wf wooof wooooof w woooooof, wof

the slightest consideration will show that though seven hundred and
wof wooooooof wooooooooooof woof woof woof woooof wooof wooooof wof

seventy-seven is a pretty large number, yet, when you come to make
wooooof-wooof wf w woooof wooof woooof, wof, woof wof woof wf woof

a TEENTH of it, you will then see, I say, that the seven hundred and
w WOOOOF wf wf, wof woof woof wof, W wof, woof wof wooof wooooof wof

seventy-seventh part of a farthing is a good deal less than seven
wooooof-wooooof woof wf w woooooof wf w woof woof woof woof wooof

hundred and seventy-seven gold doubloons; and so I thought at the time.
wooooof wof wooooof-wooof woof wooooooof; wof wf W wooooof wf wof woof.




"Why, blast your eyes, Bildad," cried Peleg, "thou dost not want to
"Wof, wooof woof woof, Woooof," wooof Wooof, "woof woof wof woof wf

swindle this young man! he must have more than that."
wooooof woof wooof wof! wf woof woof woof woof woof."




"Seven hundred and seventy-seventh," again said Bildad, without lifting
"Wooof wooooof wof wooooof-wooooof," wooof woof Woooof, wooooof wooooof

his eyes; and then went on mumbling--"for where your treasure is, there
wof woof; wof woof woof wf woooooof--"wof wooof woof woooooof wf, wooof

will your heart be also."
woof woof wooof wf woof."




"I am going to put him down for the three hundredth," said Peleg, "do ye
"W wf wooof wf wof wof woof wof wof wooof wooooooof," woof Wooof, "wf wf

hear that, Bildad! The three hundredth lay, I say."
woof woof, Woooof! Wof wooof wooooooof wof, W wof."




Bildad laid down his book, and turning solemnly towards him said,
Woooof woof woof wof woof, wof wooooof woooooof wooooof wof woof,

"Captain Peleg, thou hast a generous heart; but thou must consider the
"Wooooof Wooof, woof woof w woooooof wooof; wof woof woof woooooof wof

duty thou owest to the other owners of this ship--widows and orphans,
woof woof wooof wf wof wooof woooof wf woof woof--woooof wof wooooof,

many of them--and that if we too abundantly reward the labors of this
woof wf woof--wof woof wf wf wof woooooooof woooof wof woooof wf woof

young man, we may be taking the bread from those widows and those
wooof wof, wf wof wf woooof wof wooof woof wooof woooof wof wooof

orphans. The seven hundred and seventy-seventh lay, Captain Peleg."
wooooof. Wof wooof wooooof wof wooooof-wooooof wof, Wooooof Wooof."




"Thou Bildad!" roared Peleg, starting up and clattering about the
"Woof Woooof!" woooof Wooof, woooooof wf wof woooooooof wooof wof

cabin. "Blast ye, Captain Bildad, if I had followed thy advice in these
wooof. "Wooof wf, Wooooof Woooof, wf W wof woooooof wof woooof wf wooof

matters, I would afore now had a conscience to lug about that would be
wooooof, W wooof wooof wof wof w woooooooof wf wof wooof woof wooof wf

heavy enough to founder the largest ship that ever sailed round Cape
wooof woooof wf wooooof wof wooooof woof woof woof woooof wooof Woof

Horn."
Woof."




"Captain Peleg," said Bildad steadily, "thy conscience may be drawing
"Wooooof Wooof," woof Woooof woooooof, "wof woooooooof wof wf wooooof

ten inches of water, or ten fathoms, I can't tell; but as thou art still
wof woooof wf wooof, wf wof wooooof, W wof'w woof; wof wf woof wof wooof

an impenitent man, Captain Peleg, I greatly fear lest thy conscience be
wf woooooooof wof, Wooooof Wooof, W wooooof woof woof wof woooooooof wf

but a leaky one; and will in the end sink thee foundering down to the
wof w wooof wof; wof woof wf wof wof woof woof woooooooof woof wf wof

fiery pit, Captain Peleg."
wooof wof, Wooooof Wooof."




"Fiery pit! fiery pit! ye insult me, man; past all natural bearing, ye
"Wooof wof! wooof wof! wf woooof wf, wof; woof wof wooooof wooooof, wf

insult me. It's an all-fired outrage to tell any human creature that
woooof wf. Wf'w wf wof-wooof wooooof wf woof wof wooof woooooof woof

he's bound to hell. Flukes and flames! Bildad, say that again to me, and
wf'w wooof wf woof. Woooof wof woooof! Woooof, wof woof wooof wf wf, wof

start my soul-bolts, but I'll--I'll--yes, I'll swallow a live goat with
wooof wf woof-wooof, wof W'wf--W'wf--wof, W'wf wooooof w woof woof woof

all his hair and horns on. Out of the cabin, ye canting, drab-coloured
wof wof woof wof wooof wf. Wof wf wof wooof, wf wooooof, woof-woooooof

son of a wooden gun--a straight wake with ye!"
wof wf w woooof wof--w woooooof woof woof wf!"




As he thundered out this he made a rush at Bildad, but with a marvellous
Wf wf wooooooof wof woof wf woof w woof wf Woooof, wof woof w woooooooof

oblique, sliding celerity, Bildad for that time eluded him.
wooooof, wooooof woooooof, Woooof wof woof woof woooof wof.




Alarmed at this terrible outburst between the two principal and
Wooooof wf woof woooooof woooooof wooooof wof wof wooooooof wof

responsible owners of the ship, and feeling half a mind to give up
wooooooooof woooof wf wof woof, wof wooooof woof w woof wf woof wf

all idea of sailing in a vessel so questionably owned and temporarily
wof woof wf wooooof wf w woooof wf woooooooooof wooof wof wooooooooof

commanded, I stepped aside from the door to give egress to Bildad, who,
wooooooof, W wooooof wooof woof wof woof wf woof woooof wf Woooof, wof,

I made no doubt, was all eagerness to vanish from before the awakened
W woof wf wooof, wof wof wooooooof wf woooof woof woooof wof woooooof

wrath of Peleg. But to my astonishment, he sat down again on the
wooof wf Wooof. Wof wf wf woooooooooof, wf wof woof wooof wf wof

transom very quietly, and seemed to have not the slightest intention of
wooooof woof wooooof, wof woooof wf woof wof wof wooooooof wooooooof wf

withdrawing. He seemed quite used to impenitent Peleg and his ways. As
wooooooooof. Wf woooof wooof woof wf woooooooof Wooof wof wof woof. Wf

for Peleg, after letting off his rage as he had, there seemed no more
wof Wooof, wooof wooooof wof wof woof wf wf wof, wooof woooof wf woof

left in him, and he, too, sat down like a lamb, though he twitched a
woof wf wof, wof wf, wof, wof woof woof w woof, woooof wf woooooof w

little as if still nervously agitated. "Whew!" he whistled at last--"the
woooof wf wf wooof wooooooof woooooof. "Woof!" wf woooooof wf woof--"wof

squall's gone off to leeward, I think. Bildad, thou used to be good at
woooof'w woof wof wf wooooof, W wooof. Woooof, woof woof wf wf woof wf

sharpening a lance, mend that pen, will ye. My jack-knife here needs
woooooooof w wooof, woof woof wof, woof wf. Wf woof-wooof woof wooof

the grindstone. That's he; thank ye, Bildad. Now then, my young man,
wof woooooooof. Woof'w wf; wooof wf, Woooof. Wof woof, wf wooof wof,

Ishmael's thy name, didn't ye say? Well then, down ye go here, Ishmael,
Wooooof'w wof woof, woof'w wf wof? Woof woof, woof wf wf woof, Wooooof,

for the three hundredth lay."
wof wof wooof wooooooof wof."




"Captain Peleg," said I, "I have a friend with me who wants to ship
"Wooooof Wooof," woof W, "W woof w woooof woof wf wof wooof wf woof

too--shall I bring him down to-morrow?"
wof--wooof W wooof wof woof wf-woooof?"




"To be sure," said Peleg. "Fetch him along, and we'll look at him."
"Wf wf woof," woof Wooof. "Wooof wof wooof, wof wf'wf woof wf wof."




"What lay does he want?" groaned Bildad, glancing up from the book in
"Woof wof woof wf woof?" wooooof Woooof, woooooof wf woof wof woof wf

which he had again been burying himself.
wooof wf wof wooof woof wooooof wooooof.




"Oh! never thee mind about that, Bildad," said Peleg. "Has he ever
"Wf! wooof woof woof wooof woof, Woooof," woof Wooof. "Wof wf woof

whaled it any?" turning to me.
woooof wf wof?" wooooof wf wf.




"Killed more whales than I can count, Captain Peleg."
"Woooof woof woooof woof W wof wooof, Wooooof Wooof."




"Well, bring him along then."
"Woof, wooof wof wooof woof."




And, after signing the papers, off I went; nothing doubting but that I
Wof, wooof wooooof wof woooof, wof W woof; wooooof woooooof wof woof W

had done a good morning's work, and that the Pequod was the identical
wof woof w woof wooooof'w woof, wof woof wof Woooof wof wof wooooooof

ship that Yojo had provided to carry Queequeg and me round the Cape.
woof woof Woof wof woooooof wf wooof Woooooof wof wf wooof wof Woof.




But I had not proceeded far, when I began to bethink me that the Captain
Wof W wof wof wooooooof wof, woof W wooof wf wooooof wf woof wof Wooooof

with whom I was to sail yet remained unseen by me; though, indeed, in
woof woof W wof wf woof wof woooooof woooof wf wf; woooof, woooof, wf

many cases, a whale-ship will be completely fitted out, and receive all
woof wooof, w wooof-woof woof wf woooooooof woooof wof, wof wooooof wof

her crew on board, ere the captain makes himself visible by arriving
wof woof wf wooof, wof wof wooooof wooof wooooof wooooof wf woooooof

to take command; for sometimes these voyages are so prolonged, and the
wf woof wooooof; wof wooooooof wooof wooooof wof wf wooooooof, wof wof

shore intervals at home so exceedingly brief, that if the captain have
wooof wooooooof wf woof wf wooooooooof wooof, woof wf wof wooooof woof

a family, or any absorbing concernment of that sort, he does not trouble
w woooof, wf wof wooooooof wooooooooof wf woof woof, wf woof wof wooooof

himself much about his ship in port, but leaves her to the owners till
wooooof woof wooof wof woof wf woof, wof woooof wof wf wof woooof woof

all is ready for sea. However, it is always as well to have a look at
wof wf wooof wof wof. Wooooof, wf wf woooof wf woof wf woof w woof wf

him before irrevocably committing yourself into his hands. Turning back
wof woooof wooooooooof woooooooof woooooof woof wof wooof. Wooooof woof

I accosted Captain Peleg, inquiring where Captain Ahab was to be found.
W woooooof Wooooof Wooof, wooooooof wooof Wooooof Woof wof wf wf wooof.




"And what dost thou want of Captain Ahab? It's all right enough; thou
"Wof woof woof woof woof wf Wooooof Woof? Wf'w wof wooof woooof; woof

art shipped."
wof wooooof."




"Yes, but I should like to see him."
"Wof, wof W woooof woof wf wof wof."




"But I don't think thou wilt be able to at present. I don't know exactly
"Wof W wof'w wooof woof woof wf woof wf wf wooooof. W wof'w woof wooooof

what's the matter with him; but he keeps close inside the house; a sort
woof'w wof woooof woof wof; wof wf wooof wooof woooof wof wooof; w woof

of sick, and yet he don't look so. In fact, he ain't sick; but no, he
wf woof, wof wof wf wof'w woof wf. Wf woof, wf wof'w woof; wof wf, wf

isn't well either. Any how, young man, he won't always see me, so I
wof'w woof woooof. Wof wof, wooof wof, wf wof'w woooof wof wf, wf W

don't suppose he will thee. He's a queer man, Captain Ahab--so some
wof'w wooooof wf woof woof. Wf'w w wooof wof, Wooooof Woof--wf woof

think--but a good one. Oh, thou'lt like him well enough; no fear, no
wooof--wof w woof wof. Wf, woof'wf woof wof woof woooof; wf woof, wf

fear. He's a grand, ungodly, god-like man, Captain Ahab; doesn't speak
woof. Wf'w w wooof, wooooof, wof-woof wof, Wooooof Woof; wooof'w wooof

much; but, when he does speak, then you may well listen. Mark ye, be
woof; wof, woof wf woof wooof, woof wof wof woof woooof. Woof wf, wf

forewarned; Ahab's above the common; Ahab's been in colleges, as well as
woooooooof; Woof'w wooof wof woooof; Woof'w woof wf woooooof, wf woof wf

'mong the cannibals; been used to deeper wonders than the waves; fixed
'woof wof wooooooof; woof woof wf woooof wooooof woof wof wooof; wooof

his fiery lance in mightier, stranger foes than whales. His lance!
wof wooof wooof wf woooooof, woooooof woof woof woooof. Wof wooof!

aye, the keenest and the surest that out of all our isle! Oh! he ain't
wof, wof wooooof wof wof woooof woof wof wf wof wof woof! Wf! wf wof'w

Captain Bildad; no, and he ain't Captain Peleg; HE'S AHAB, boy; and Ahab
Wooooof Woooof; wf, wof wf wof'w Wooooof Wooof; WF'W WOOF, wof; wof Woof

of old, thou knowest, was a crowned king!"
wf wof, woof wooooof, wof w wooooof woof!"




"And a very vile one. When that wicked king was slain, the dogs, did
"Wof w woof woof wof. Woof woof woooof woof wof wooof, wof woof, wof

they not lick his blood?"
woof wof woof wof wooof?"




"Come hither to me--hither, hither," said Peleg, with a significance in
"Woof woooof wf wf--woooof, woooof," woof Wooof, woof w woooooooooof wf

his eye that almost startled me. "Look ye, lad; never say that on board
wof wof woof woooof woooooof wf. "Woof wf, wof; wooof wof woof wf wooof

the Pequod. Never say it anywhere. Captain Ahab did not name himself.
wof Woooof. Wooof wof wf woooooof. Wooooof Woof wof wof woof wooooof.

'Twas a foolish, ignorant whim of his crazy, widowed mother, who died
'Woof w wooooof, woooooof woof wf wof wooof, wooooof woooof, wof woof

when he was only a twelvemonth old. And yet the old squaw Tistig, at
woof wf wof woof w wooooooooof wof. Wof wof wof wof wooof Woooof, wf

Gayhead, said that the name would somehow prove prophetic. And, perhaps,
Wooooof, woof woof wof woof wooof wooooof wooof wooooooof. Wof, wooooof,

other fools like her may tell thee the same. I wish to warn thee. It's a
wooof wooof woof wof wof woof woof wof woof. W woof wf woof woof. Wf'w w

lie. I know Captain Ahab well; I've sailed with him as mate years ago;
wof. W woof Wooooof Woof woof; W'wf woooof woof wof wf woof wooof wof;

I know what he is--a good man--not a pious, good man, like Bildad, but
W woof woof wf wf--w woof wof--wof w wooof, woof wof, woof Woooof, wof

a swearing good man--something like me--only there's a good deal more of
w woooooof woof wof--wooooooof woof wf--woof wooof'w w woof woof woof wf

him. Aye, aye, I know that he was never very jolly; and I know that on
wof. Wof, wof, W woof woof wf wof wooof woof wooof; wof W woof woof wf

the passage home, he was a little out of his mind for a spell; but it
wof wooooof woof, wf wof w woooof wof wf wof woof wof w wooof; wof wf

was the sharp shooting pains in his bleeding stump that brought that
wof wof wooof woooooof wooof wf wof woooooof wooof woof wooooof woof

about, as any one might see. I know, too, that ever since he lost
wooof, wf wof wof wooof wof. W woof, wof, woof woof wooof wf woof

his leg last voyage by that accursed whale, he's been a kind of
wof wof woof woooof wf woof woooooof wooof, wf'w woof w woof wf

moody--desperate moody, and savage sometimes; but that will all pass
wooof--wooooooof wooof, wof woooof wooooooof; wof woof woof wof woof

off. And once for all, let me tell thee and assure thee, young man, it's
wof. Wof woof wof wof, wof wf woof woof wof woooof woof, wooof wof, wf'w

better to sail with a moody good captain than a laughing bad one. So
woooof wf woof woof w wooof woof wooooof woof w woooooof wof wof. Wf

good-bye to thee--and wrong not Captain Ahab, because he happens to
woof-wof wf woof--wof wooof wof Wooooof Woof, wooooof wf wooooof wf

have a wicked name. Besides, my boy, he has a wife--not three voyages
woof w woooof woof. Wooooof, wf wof, wf wof w woof--wof wooof wooooof

wedded--a sweet, resigned girl. Think of that; by that sweet girl that
woooof--w wooof, woooooof woof. Wooof wf woof; wf woof wooof woof woof

old man has a child: hold ye then there can be any utter, hopeless
wof wof wof w wooof: woof wf woof wooof wof wf wof wooof, woooooof

harm in Ahab? No, no, my lad; stricken, blasted, if he be, Ahab has his
woof wf Woof? Wf, wf, wf wof; woooooof, wooooof, wf wf wf, Woof wof wof

humanities!"
woooooooof!"




As I walked away, I was full of thoughtfulness; what had been
Wf W woooof woof, W wof woof wf woooooooooooof; woof wof woof

incidentally revealed to me of Captain Ahab, filled me with a certain
woooooooooof woooooof wf wf wf Wooooof Woof, woooof wf woof w wooooof

wild vagueness of painfulness concerning him. And somehow, at the time,
woof wooooooof wf wooooooooof woooooooof wof. Wof wooooof, wf wof woof,

I felt a sympathy and a sorrow for him, but for I don't know what,
W woof w woooooof wof w woooof wof wof, wof wof W wof'w woof woof,

unless it was the cruel loss of his leg. And yet I also felt a strange
woooof wf wof wof wooof woof wf wof wof. Wof wof W woof woof w wooooof

awe of him; but that sort of awe, which I cannot at all describe, was
wof wf wof; wof woof woof wf wof, wooof W woooof wf wof woooooof, wof

not exactly awe; I do not know what it was. But I felt it; and it did
wof wooooof wof; W wf wof woof woof wf wof. Wof W woof wf; wof wf wof

not disincline me towards him; though I felt impatience at what seemed
wof woooooooof wf wooooof wof; woooof W woof woooooooof wf woof woooof

like mystery in him, so imperfectly as he was known to me then. However,
woof wooooof wf wof, wf wooooooooof wf wf wof wooof wf wf woof. Wooooof,

my thoughts were at length carried in other directions, so that for the
wf woooooof woof wf woooof wooooof wf wooof woooooooof, wf woof wof wof

present dark Ahab slipped my mind.
wooooof woof Woof wooooof wf woof.










CHAPTER 17. The Ramadan.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Wooooof.







As Queequeg's Ramadan, or Fasting and Humiliation, was to continue all
Wf Woooooof'w Wooooof, wf Wooooof wof Wooooooooof, wof wf woooooof wof

day, I did not choose to disturb him till towards night-fall; for I
wof, W wof wof woooof wf wooooof wof woof wooooof wooof-woof; wof W

cherish the greatest respect towards everybody's religious obligations,
wooooof wof woooooof wooooof wooooof wooooooof'w wooooooof wooooooooof,

never mind how comical, and could not find it in my heart to undervalue
wooof woof wof wooooof, wof wooof wof woof wf wf wf wooof wf woooooooof

even a congregation of ants worshipping a toad-stool; or those other
woof w woooooooooof wf woof wooooooooof w woof-wooof; wf wooof wooof

creatures in certain parts of our earth, who with a degree of footmanism
wooooooof wf wooooof wooof wf wof wooof, wof woof w woooof wf woooooooof

quite unprecedented in other planets, bow down before the torso of
wooof wooooooooooof wf wooof wooooof, wof woof woooof wof wooof wf

a deceased landed proprietor merely on account of the inordinate
w woooooof woooof woooooooof woooof wf wooooof wf wof woooooooof

possessions yet owned and rented in his name.
wooooooooof wof wooof wof woooof wf wof woof.




I say, we good Presbyterian Christians should be charitable in these
W wof, wf woof Woooooooooof Woooooooof woooof wf woooooooof wf wooof

things, and not fancy ourselves so vastly superior to other mortals,
woooof, wof wof wooof wooooooof wf woooof woooooof wf wooof wooooof,

pagans and what not, because of their half-crazy conceits on these
woooof wof woof wof, wooooof wf wooof woof-wooof woooooof wf wooof

subjects. There was Queequeg, now, certainly entertaining the most
woooooof. Wooof wof Woooooof, wof, wooooooof woooooooooof wof woof

absurd notions about Yojo and his Ramadan;--but what of that? Queequeg
woooof wooooof wooof Woof wof wof Wooooof;--wof woof wf woof? Woooooof

thought he knew what he was about, I suppose; he seemed to be content;
wooooof wf woof woof wf wof wooof, W wooooof; wf woooof wf wf wooooof;

and there let him rest. All our arguing with him would not avail; let
wof wooof wof wof woof. Wof wof wooooof woof wof wooof wof wooof; wof

him be, I say: and Heaven have mercy on us all--Presbyterians and Pagans
wof wf, W wof: wof Woooof woof wooof wf wf wof--Wooooooooooof wof Woooof

alike--for we are all somehow dreadfully cracked about the head, and
wooof--wof wf wof wof wooooof woooooooof wooooof wooof wof woof, wof

sadly need mending.
wooof woof wooooof.




Towards evening, when I felt assured that all his performances and
Wooooof wooooof, woof W woof wooooof woof wof wof woooooooooof wof

rituals must be over, I went up to his room and knocked at the door; but
wooooof woof wf woof, W woof wf wf wof woof wof wooooof wf wof woof; wof

no answer. I tried to open it, but it was fastened inside. "Queequeg,"
wf woooof. W wooof wf woof wf, wof wf wof woooooof woooof. "Woooooof,"

said I softly through the key-hole:--all silent. "I say, Queequeg! why
woof W woooof wooooof wof wof-woof:--wof woooof. "W wof, Woooooof! wof

don't you speak? It's I--Ishmael." But all remained still as before. I
wof'w wof wooof? Wf'w W--Wooooof." Wof wof woooooof wooof wf woooof. W

began to grow alarmed. I had allowed him such abundant time; I thought
wooof wf woof wooooof. W wof wooooof wof woof woooooof woof; W wooooof

he might have had an apoplectic fit. I looked through the key-hole; but
wf wooof woof wof wf woooooooof wof. W woooof wooooof wof wof-woof; wof

the door opening into an odd corner of the room, the key-hole prospect
wof woof wooooof woof wf wof woooof wf wof woof, wof wof-woof woooooof

was but a crooked and sinister one. I could only see part of the
wof wof w wooooof wof woooooof wof. W wooof woof wof woof wf wof

foot-board of the bed and a line of the wall, but nothing more. I
woof-wooof wf wof wof wof w woof wf wof woof, wof wooooof woof. W

was surprised to behold resting against the wall the wooden shaft of
wof wooooooof wf woooof wooooof wooooof wof woof wof woooof wooof wf

Queequeg's harpoon, which the landlady the evening previous had taken
Woooooof'w wooooof, wooof wof woooooof wof wooooof woooooof wof wooof

from him, before our mounting to the chamber. That's strange, thought I;
woof wof, woooof wof woooooof wf wof wooooof. Woof'w wooooof, wooooof W;

but at any rate, since the harpoon stands yonder, and he seldom or
wof wf wof woof, wooof wof wooooof woooof woooof, wof wf woooof wf

never goes abroad without it, therefore he must be inside here, and no
wooof woof woooof wooooof wf, wooooooof wf woof wf woooof woof, wof wf

possible mistake.
woooooof wooooof.




"Queequeg!--Queequeg!"--all still. Something must have happened.
"Woooooof!--Woooooof!"--wof wooof. Wooooooof woof woof woooooof.

Apoplexy! I tried to burst open the door; but it stubbornly resisted.
Woooooof! W wooof wf wooof woof wof woof; wof wf woooooooof woooooof.

Running down stairs, I quickly stated my suspicions to the first person
Wooooof woof woooof, W wooooof woooof wf woooooooof wf wof wooof woooof

I met--the chamber-maid. "La! la!" she cried, "I thought something must
W wof--wof wooooof-woof. "Wf! wf!" wof wooof, "W wooooof wooooooof woof

be the matter. I went to make the bed after breakfast, and the door was
wf wof woooof. W woof wf woof wof wof wooof wooooooof, wof wof woof wof

locked; and not a mouse to be heard; and it's been just so silent ever
woooof; wof wof w wooof wf wf wooof; wof wf'w woof woof wf woooof woof

since. But I thought, may be, you had both gone off and locked your
wooof. Wof W wooooof, wof wf, wof wof woof woof wof wof woooof woof

baggage in for safe keeping. La! la, ma'am!--Mistress! murder! Mrs.
wooooof wf wof woof wooooof. Wf! wf, wf'wf!--Woooooof! woooof! Wof.

Hussey! apoplexy!"--and with these cries, she ran towards the kitchen, I
Woooof! woooooof!"--wof woof wooof wooof, wof wof wooooof wof wooooof, W

following.
wooooooof.




Mrs. Hussey soon appeared, with a mustard-pot in one hand and a
Wof. Woooof woof woooooof, woof w wooooof-wof wf wof woof wof w

vinegar-cruet in the other, having just broken away from the occupation
wooooof-wooof wf wof wooof, woooof woof woooof woof woof wof woooooooof

of attending to the castors, and scolding her little black boy meantime.
wf wooooooof wf wof wooooof, wof woooooof wof woooof wooof wof woooooof.




"Wood-house!" cried I, "which way to it? Run for God's sake, and fetch
"Woof-wooof!" wooof W, "wooof wof wf wf? Wof wof Wof'w woof, wof wooof

something to pry open the door--the axe!--the axe! he's had a stroke;
wooooooof wf wof woof wof woof--wof wof!--wof wof! wf'w wof w woooof;

depend upon it!"--and so saying I was unmethodically rushing up stairs
woooof woof wf!"--wof wf woooof W wof woooooooooooof wooooof wf woooof

again empty-handed, when Mrs. Hussey interposed the mustard-pot and
wooof wooof-woooof, woof Wof. Woooof woooooooof wof wooooof-wof wof

vinegar-cruet, and the entire castor of her countenance.
wooooof-wooof, wof wof woooof woooof wf wof wooooooooof.




"What's the matter with you, young man?"
"Woof'w wof woooof woof wof, wooof wof?"




"Get the axe! For God's sake, run for the doctor, some one, while I pry
"Wof wof wof! Wof Wof'w woof, wof wof wof woooof, woof wof, wooof W wof

it open!"
wf woof!"




"Look here," said the landlady, quickly putting down the vinegar-cruet,
"Woof woof," woof wof woooooof, wooooof wooooof woof wof wooooof-wooof,

so as to have one hand free; "look here; are you talking about prying
wf wf wf woof wof woof woof; "woof woof; wof wof wooooof wooof woooof

open any of my doors?"--and with that she seized my arm. "What's the
woof wof wf wf wooof?"--wof woof woof wof woooof wf wof. "Woof'w wof

matter with you? What's the matter with you, shipmate?"
woooof woof wof? Woof'w wof woooof woof wof, woooooof?"




In as calm, but rapid a manner as possible, I gave her to understand the
Wf wf woof, wof wooof w woooof wf woooooof, W woof wof wf woooooooof wof

whole case. Unconsciously clapping the vinegar-cruet to one side of her
wooof woof. Wooooooooooof woooooof wof wooooof-wooof wf wof woof wf wof

nose, she ruminated for an instant; then exclaimed--"No! I haven't seen
woof, wof wooooooof wof wf wooooof; woof wooooooof--"Wf! W wooof'w woof

it since I put it there." Running to a little closet under the landing
wf wooof W wof wf wooof." Wooooof wf w woooof woooof wooof wof wooooof

of the stairs, she glanced in, and returning, told me that Queequeg's
wf wof woooof, wof wooooof wf, wof wooooooof, woof wf woof Woooooof'w

harpoon was missing. "He's killed himself," she cried. "It's unfort'nate
wooooof wof wooooof. "Wf'w woooof wooooof," wof wooof. "Wf'w woooof'woof

Stiggs done over again there goes another counterpane--God pity his poor
Woooof woof woof wooof wooof woof wooooof wooooooooof--Wof woof wof woof

mother!--it will be the ruin of my house. Has the poor lad a sister?
woooof!--wf woof wf wof woof wf wf wooof. Wof wof woof wof w woooof?

Where's that girl?--there, Betty, go to Snarles the Painter, and tell
Wooof'w woof woof?--wooof, Wooof, wf wf Wooooof wof Wooooof, wof woof

him to paint me a sign, with--"no suicides permitted here, and no
wof wf wooof wf w woof, woof--"wf woooooof wooooooof woof, wof wf

smoking in the parlor;"--might as well kill both birds at once. Kill?
wooooof wf wof woooof;"--wooof wf woof woof woof wooof wf woof. Woof?

The Lord be merciful to his ghost! What's that noise there? You, young
Wof Woof wf woooooof wf wof wooof! Woof'w woof wooof wooof? Wof, wooof

man, avast there!"
wof, wooof wooof!"




And running up after me, she caught me as I was again trying to force
Wof wooooof wf wooof wf, wof woooof wf wf W wof wooof woooof wf wooof

open the door.
woof wof woof.




"I don't allow it; I won't have my premises spoiled. Go for the
"W wof'w wooof wf; W wof'w woof wf woooooof wooooof. Wf wof wof

locksmith, there's one about a mile from here. But avast!" putting her
wooooooof, wooof'w wof wooof w woof woof woof. Wof wooof!" wooooof wof

hand in her side-pocket, "here's a key that'll fit, I guess; let's
woof wf wof woof-woooof, "woof'w w wof woof'wf wof, W wooof; wof'w

see." And with that, she turned it in the lock; but, alas! Queequeg's
wof." Wof woof woof, wof woooof wf wf wof woof; wof, woof! Woooooof'w

supplemental bolt remained unwithdrawn within.
woooooooooof woof woooooof wooooooooof woooof.




"Have to burst it open," said I, and was running down the entry a
"Woof wf wooof wf woof," woof W, wof wof wooooof woof wof wooof w

little, for a good start, when the landlady caught at me, again vowing
woooof, wof w woof wooof, woof wof woooooof woooof wf wf, wooof woooof

I should not break down her premises; but I tore from her, and with a
W woooof wof wooof woof wof woooooof; wof W woof woof wof, wof woof w

sudden bodily rush dashed myself full against the mark.
woooof woooof woof woooof woooof woof wooooof wof woof.




With a prodigious noise the door flew open, and the knob slamming
Woof w woooooooof wooof wof woof woof woof, wof wof woof woooooof

against the wall, sent the plaster to the ceiling; and there, good
wooooof wof woof, woof wof wooooof wf wof wooooof; wof wooof, woof

heavens! there sat Queequeg, altogether cool and self-collected; right
wooooof! wooof wof Woooooof, woooooooof woof wof woof-wooooooof; wooof

in the middle of the room; squatting on his hams, and holding Yojo on
wf wof woooof wf wof woof; wooooooof wf wof woof, wof wooooof Woof wf

top of his head. He looked neither one way nor the other way, but sat
wof wf wof woof. Wf woooof wooooof wof wof wof wof wooof wof, wof wof

like a carved image with scarce a sign of active life.
woof w woooof wooof woof woooof w woof wf woooof woof.




"Queequeg," said I, going up to him, "Queequeg, what's the matter with
"Woooooof," woof W, wooof wf wf wof, "Woooooof, woof'w wof woooof woof

you?"
wof?"




"He hain't been a sittin' so all day, has he?" said the landlady.
"Wf woof'w woof w woooof' wf wof wof, wof wf?" woof wof woooooof.




But all we said, not a word could we drag out of him; I almost felt
Wof wof wf woof, wof w woof wooof wf woof wof wf wof; W woooof woof

like pushing him over, so as to change his position, for it was almost
woof wooooof wof woof, wf wf wf woooof wof woooooof, wof wf wof woooof

intolerable, it seemed so painfully and unnaturally constrained;
wooooooooof, wf woooof wf wooooooof wof wooooooooof wooooooooof;

especially, as in all probability he had been sitting so for upwards of
woooooooof, wf wf wof wooooooooof wf wof woof wooooof wf wof wooooof wf

eight or ten hours, going too without his regular meals.
wooof wf wof wooof, wooof wof wooooof wof wooooof wooof.




"Mrs. Hussey," said I, "he's ALIVE at all events; so leave us, if you
"Wof. Woooof," woof W, "wf'w WOOOF wf wof woooof; wf wooof wf, wf wof

please, and I will see to this strange affair myself."
woooof, wof W woof wof wf woof wooooof woooof woooof."




Closing the door upon the landlady, I endeavored to prevail upon
Wooooof wof woof woof wof woooooof, W woooooooof wf wooooof woof

Queequeg to take a chair; but in vain. There he sat; and all he could
Woooooof wf woof w wooof; wof wf woof. Wooof wf wof; wof wof wf wooof

do--for all my polite arts and blandishments--he would not move a peg,
wf--wof wof wf woooof woof wof wooooooooooof--wf wooof wof woof w wof,

nor say a single word, nor even look at me, nor notice my presence in
wof wof w woooof woof, wof woof woof wf wf, wof woooof wf woooooof wf

the slightest way.
wof wooooooof wof.




I wonder, thought I, if this can possibly be a part of his Ramadan; do
W woooof, wooooof W, wf woof wof woooooof wf w woof wf wof Wooooof; wf

they fast on their hams that way in his native island. It must be so;
woof woof wf wooof woof woof wof wf wof woooof woooof. Wf woof wf wf;

yes, it's part of his creed, I suppose; well, then, let him rest; he'll
wof, wf'w woof wf wof wooof, W wooooof; woof, woof, wof wof woof; wf'wf

get up sooner or later, no doubt. It can't last for ever, thank God,
wof wf woooof wf wooof, wf wooof. Wf wof'w woof wof woof, wooof Wof,

and his Ramadan only comes once a year; and I don't believe it's very
wof wof Wooooof woof wooof woof w woof; wof W wof'w wooooof wf'w woof

punctual then.
woooooof woof.




I went down to supper. After sitting a long time listening to the long
W woof woof wf woooof. Wooof wooooof w woof woof wooooooof wf wof woof

stories of some sailors who had just come from a plum-pudding voyage, as
wooooof wf woof wooooof wof wof woof woof woof w woof-wooooof woooof, wf

they called it (that is, a short whaling-voyage in a schooner or brig,
woof woooof wf (woof wf, w wooof wooooof-woooof wf w woooooof wf woof,

confined to the north of the line, in the Atlantic Ocean only); after
woooooof wf wof wooof wf wof woof, wf wof Woooooof Wooof woof); wooof

listening to these plum-puddingers till nearly eleven o'clock, I went
wooooooof wf wooof woof-woooooooof woof woooof woooof w'wooof, W woof

up stairs to go to bed, feeling quite sure by this time Queequeg must
wf woooof wf wf wf wof, wooooof wooof woof wf woof woof Woooooof woof

certainly have brought his Ramadan to a termination. But no; there he
wooooooof woof wooooof wof Wooooof wf w wooooooooof. Wof wf; wooof wf

was just where I had left him; he had not stirred an inch. I began to
wof woof wooof W wof woof wof; wf wof wof wooooof wf woof. W wooof wf

grow vexed with him; it seemed so downright senseless and insane to be
woof wooof woof wof; wf woooof wf wooooooof wooooooof wof woooof wf wf

sitting there all day and half the night on his hams in a cold room,
wooooof wooof wof wof wof woof wof wooof wf wof woof wf w woof woof,

holding a piece of wood on his head.
wooooof w wooof wf woof wf wof woof.




"For heaven's sake, Queequeg, get up and shake yourself; get up and have
"Wof woooof'w woof, Woooooof, wof wf wof wooof woooooof; wof wf wof woof

some supper. You'll starve; you'll kill yourself, Queequeg." But not a
woof woooof. Wof'wf woooof; wof'wf woof woooooof, Woooooof." Wof wof w

word did he reply.
woof wof wf wooof.




Despairing of him, therefore, I determined to go to bed and to sleep;
Woooooooof wf wof, wooooooof, W woooooooof wf wf wf wof wof wf wooof;

and no doubt, before a great while, he would follow me. But previous to
wof wf wooof, woooof w wooof wooof, wf wooof woooof wf. Wof woooooof wf

turning in, I took my heavy bearskin jacket, and threw it over him, as
wooooof wf, W woof wf wooof woooooof woooof, wof wooof wf woof wof, wf

it promised to be a very cold night; and he had nothing but his ordinary
wf woooooof wf wf w woof woof wooof; wof wf wof wooooof wof wof woooooof

round jacket on. For some time, do all I would, I could not get into
wooof woooof wf. Wof woof woof, wf wof W wooof, W wooof wof wof woof

the faintest doze. I had blown out the candle; and the mere thought
wof woooooof woof. W wof wooof wof wof woooof; wof wof woof wooooof

of Queequeg--not four feet off--sitting there in that uneasy position,
wf Woooooof--wof woof woof wof--wooooof wooof wf woof woooof woooooof,

stark alone in the cold and dark; this made me really wretched. Think of
wooof wooof wf wof woof wof woof; woof woof wf woooof woooooof. Wooof wf

it; sleeping all night in the same room with a wide awake pagan on his
wf; woooooof wof wooof wf wof woof woof woof w woof wooof wooof wf wof

hams in this dreary, unaccountable Ramadan!
woof wf woof woooof, wooooooooooof Wooooof!




But somehow I dropped off at last, and knew nothing more till break of
Wof wooooof W wooooof wof wf woof, wof woof wooooof woof woof wooof wf

day; when, looking over the bedside, there squatted Queequeg, as if he
wof; woof, wooooof woof wof wooooof, wooof woooooof Woooooof, wf wf wf

had been screwed down to the floor. But as soon as the first glimpse of
wof woof wooooof woof wf wof wooof. Wof wf woof wf wof wooof wooooof wf

sun entered the window, up he got, with stiff and grating joints,
wof wooooof wof woooof, wf wf wof, woof wooof wof wooooof woooof,

but with a cheerful look; limped towards me where I lay; pressed his
wof woof w woooooof woof; woooof wooooof wf wooof W wof; wooooof wof

forehead again against mine; and said his Ramadan was over.
woooooof wooof wooooof woof; wof woof wof Wooooof wof woof.




Now, as I before hinted, I have no objection to any person's religion,
Wof, wf W woooof woooof, W woof wf wooooooof wf wof woooof'w woooooof,

be it what it may, so long as that person does not kill or insult any
wf wf woof wf wof, wf woof wf woof woooof woof wof woof wf woooof wof

other person, because that other person don't believe it also. But when
wooof woooof, wooooof woof wooof woooof wof'w wooooof wf woof. Wof woof

a man's religion becomes really frantic; when it is a positive torment
w wof'w woooooof wooooof woooof wooooof; woof wf wf w woooooof wooooof

to him; and, in fine, makes this earth of ours an uncomfortable inn to
wf wof; wof, wf woof, wooof woof wooof wf woof wf wooooooooooof wof wf

lodge in; then I think it high time to take that individual aside and
wooof wf; woof W wooof wf woof woof wf woof woof woooooooof wooof wof

argue the point with him.
wooof wof wooof woof wof.




And just so I now did with Queequeg. "Queequeg," said I, "get into bed
Wof woof wf W wof wof woof Woooooof. "Woooooof," woof W, "wof woof wof

now, and lie and listen to me." I then went on, beginning with the rise
wof, wof wof wof woooof wf wf." W woof woof wf, wooooooof woof wof woof

and progress of the primitive religions, and coming down to the various
wof woooooof wf wof wooooooof wooooooof, wof woooof woof wf wof wooooof

religions of the present time, during which time I labored to show
wooooooof wf wof wooooof woof, woooof wooof woof W wooooof wf woof

Queequeg that all these Lents, Ramadans, and prolonged ham-squattings in
Woooooof woof wof wooof Wooof, Woooooof, wof wooooooof wof-woooooooof wf

cold, cheerless rooms were stark nonsense; bad for the health; useless
woof, wooooooof wooof woof wooof woooooof; wof wof wof woooof; wooooof

for the soul; opposed, in short, to the obvious laws of Hygiene and
wof wof woof; wooooof, wf wooof, wf wof wooooof woof wf Wooooof wof

common sense. I told him, too, that he being in other things such an
woooof wooof. W woof wof, wof, woof wf wooof wf wooof woooof woof wf

extremely sensible and sagacious savage, it pained me, very badly pained
wooooooof woooooof wof wooooooof woooof, wf woooof wf, woof wooof woooof

me, to see him now so deplorably foolish about this ridiculous Ramadan
wf, wf wof wof wof wf woooooooof wooooof wooof woof woooooooof Wooooof

of his. Besides, argued I, fasting makes the body cave in; hence the
wf wof. Wooooof, woooof W, wooooof wooof wof woof woof wf; wooof wof

spirit caves in; and all thoughts born of a fast must necessarily be
woooof wooof wf; wof wof woooooof woof wf w woof woof wooooooooof wf

half-starved. This is the reason why most dyspeptic religionists cherish
woof-wooooof. Woof wf wof woooof wof woof wooooooof woooooooooof wooooof

such melancholy notions about their hereafters. In one word, Queequeg,
woof woooooooof wooooof wooof wooof woooooooof. Wf wof woof, Woooooof,

said I, rather digressively; hell is an idea first born on an undigested
woof W, woooof woooooooooof; woof wf wf woof wooof woof wf wf woooooooof

apple-dumpling; and since then perpetuated through the hereditary
wooof-woooooof; wof wooof woof wooooooooof wooooof wof woooooooof

dyspepsias nurtured by Ramadans.
woooooooof woooooof wf Woooooof.




I then asked Queequeg whether he himself was ever troubled with
W woof wooof Woooooof wooooof wf wooooof wof woof woooooof woof

dyspepsia; expressing the idea very plainly, so that he could take it
wooooooof; woooooooof wof woof woof wooooof, wf woof wf wooof woof wf

in. He said no; only upon one memorable occasion. It was after a great
wf. Wf woof wf; woof woof wof wooooooof woooooof. Wf wof wooof w wooof

feast given by his father the king, on the gaining of a great battle
wooof wooof wf wof woooof wof woof, wf wof wooooof wf w wooof woooof

wherein fifty of the enemy had been killed by about two o'clock in the
wooooof wooof wf wof wooof wof woof woooof wf wooof wof w'wooof wf wof

afternoon, and all cooked and eaten that very evening.
wooooooof, wof wof woooof wof wooof woof woof wooooof.




"No more, Queequeg," said I, shuddering; "that will do;" for I knew the
"Wf woof, Woooooof," woof W, woooooooof; "woof woof wf;" wof W woof wof

inferences without his further hinting them. I had seen a sailor who had
woooooooof wooooof wof wooooof wooooof woof. W wof woof w woooof wof wof

visited that very island, and he told me that it was the custom, when
wooooof woof woof woooof, wof wf woof wf woof wf wof wof woooof, woof

a great battle had been gained there, to barbecue all the slain in the
w wooof woooof wof woof woooof wooof, wf woooooof wof wof wooof wf wof

yard or garden of the victor; and then, one by one, they were placed
woof wf woooof wf wof woooof; wof woof, wof wf wof, woof woof woooof

in great wooden trenchers, and garnished round like a pilau, with
wf wooof woooof wooooooof, wof wooooooof wooof woof w wooof, woof

breadfruit and cocoanuts; and with some parsley in their mouths, were
woooooooof wof wooooooof; wof woof woof wooooof wf wooof woooof, woof

sent round with the victor's compliments to all his friends, just as
woof wooof woof wof woooof'w wooooooooof wf wof wof wooooof, woof wf

though these presents were so many Christmas turkeys.
woooof wooof woooooof woof wf woof Wooooooof wooooof.




After all, I do not think that my remarks about religion made much
Wooof wof, W wf wof wooof woof wf wooooof wooof woooooof woof woof

impression upon Queequeg. Because, in the first place, he somehow seemed
woooooooof woof Woooooof. Wooooof, wf wof wooof wooof, wf wooooof woooof

dull of hearing on that important subject, unless considered from his
woof wf wooooof wf woof wooooooof wooooof, woooof woooooooof woof wof

own point of view; and, in the second place, he did not more than one
wof wooof wf woof; wof, wf wof woooof wooof, wf wof wof woof woof wof

third understand me, couch my ideas simply as I would; and, finally, he
wooof woooooooof wf, wooof wf wooof woooof wf W wooof; wof, wooooof, wf

no doubt thought he knew a good deal more about the true religion than
wf wooof wooooof wf woof w woof woof woof wooof wof woof woooooof woof

I did. He looked at me with a sort of condescending concern and
W wof. Wf woooof wf wf woof w woof wf wooooooooooof wooooof wof

compassion, as though he thought it a great pity that such a sensible
woooooooof, wf woooof wf wooooof wf w wooof woof woof woof w woooooof

young man should be so hopelessly lost to evangelical pagan piety.
wooof wof woooof wf wf woooooooof woof wf wooooooooof wooof wooof.




At last we rose and dressed; and Queequeg, taking a prodigiously hearty
Wf woof wf woof wof wooooof; wof Woooooof, woooof w woooooooooof woooof

breakfast of chowders of all sorts, so that the landlady should not
wooooooof wf woooooof wf wof wooof, wf woof wof woooooof woooof wof

make much profit by reason of his Ramadan, we sallied out to board the
woof woof woooof wf woooof wf wof Wooooof, wf wooooof wof wf wooof wof

Pequod, sauntering along, and picking our teeth with halibut bones.
Woooof, woooooooof wooof, wof wooooof wof wooof woof wooooof wooof.










CHAPTER 18. His Mark.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Woof.







As we were walking down the end of the wharf towards the ship, Queequeg
Wf wf woof wooooof woof wof wof wf wof wooof wooooof wof woof, Woooooof

carrying his harpoon, Captain Peleg in his gruff voice loudly hailed us
woooooof wof wooooof, Wooooof Wooof wf wof wooof wooof woooof woooof wf

from his wigwam, saying he had not suspected my friend was a cannibal,
woof wof woooof, woooof wf wof wof wooooooof wf woooof wof w woooooof,

and furthermore announcing that he let no cannibals on board that craft,
wof wooooooooof woooooooof woof wf wof wf wooooooof wf wooof woof wooof,

unless they previously produced their papers.
woooof woof woooooooof woooooof wooof woooof.




"What do you mean by that, Captain Peleg?" said I, now jumping on the
"Woof wf wof woof wf woof, Wooooof Wooof?" woof W, wof wooooof wf wof

bulwarks, and leaving my comrade standing on the wharf.
woooooof, wof wooooof wf wooooof woooooof wf wof wooof.




"I mean," he replied, "he must show his papers."
"W woof," wf wooooof, "wf woof woof wof woooof."




"Yes," said Captain Bildad in his hollow voice, sticking his head from
"Wof," woof Wooooof Woooof wf wof woooof wooof, woooooof wof woof woof

behind Peleg's, out of the wigwam. "He must show that he's converted.
woooof Wooof'w, wof wf wof woooof. "Wf woof woof woof wf'w wooooooof.

Son of darkness," he added, turning to Queequeg, "art thou at present in
Wof wf woooooof," wf wooof, wooooof wf Woooooof, "wof woof wf wooooof wf

communion with any Christian church?"
wooooooof woof wof Wooooooof woooof?"




"Why," said I, "he's a member of the first Congregational Church." Here
"Wof," woof W, "wf'w w woooof wf wof wooof Woooooooooooof Woooof." Woof

be it said, that many tattooed savages sailing in Nantucket ships at
wf wf woof, woof woof woooooof wooooof wooooof wf Wooooooof wooof wf

last come to be converted into the churches.
woof woof wf wf wooooooof woof wof woooooof.




"First Congregational Church," cried Bildad, "what! that worships in
"Wooof Woooooooooooof Woooof," wooof Woooof, "woof! woof woooooof wf

Deacon Deuteronomy Coleman's meeting-house?" and so saying, taking
Woooof Wooooooooof Wooooof'w wooooof-wooof?" wof wf woooof, woooof

out his spectacles, he rubbed them with his great yellow bandana
wof wof woooooooof, wf woooof woof woof wof wooof woooof wooooof

handkerchief, and putting them on very carefully, came out of the
woooooooooof, wof wooooof woof wf woof wooooooof, woof wof wf wof

wigwam, and leaning stiffly over the bulwarks, took a good long look at
woooof, wof wooooof wooooof woof wof woooooof, woof w woof woof woof wf

Queequeg.
Woooooof.




"How long hath he been a member?" he then said, turning to me; "not very
"Wof woof woof wf woof w woooof?" wf woof woof, wooooof wf wf; "wof woof

long, I rather guess, young man."
woof, W woooof wooof, wooof wof."




"No," said Peleg, "and he hasn't been baptized right either, or it would
"Wf," woof Wooof, "wof wf woof'w woof woooooof wooof woooof, wf wf wooof

have washed some of that devil's blue off his face."
woof woooof woof wf woof wooof'w woof wof wof woof."




"Do tell, now," cried Bildad, "is this Philistine a regular member of
"Wf woof, wof," wooof Woooof, "wf woof Woooooooof w wooooof woooof wf

Deacon Deuteronomy's meeting? I never saw him going there, and I pass it
Woooof Wooooooooof'w wooooof? W wooof wof wof wooof wooof, wof W woof wf

every Lord's day."
wooof Woof'w wof."




"I don't know anything about Deacon Deuteronomy or his meeting," said
"W wof'w woof woooooof wooof Woooof Wooooooooof wf wof wooooof," woof

I; "all I know is, that Queequeg here is a born member of the First
W; "wof W woof wf, woof Woooooof woof wf w woof woooof wf wof Wooof

Congregational Church. He is a deacon himself, Queequeg is."
Woooooooooooof Woooof. Wf wf w woooof wooooof, Woooooof wf."




"Young man," said Bildad sternly, "thou art skylarking with me--explain
"Wooof wof," woof Woooof wooooof, "woof wof woooooooof woof wf--wooooof

thyself, thou young Hittite. What church dost thee mean? answer me."
wooooof, woof wooof Wooooof. Woof woooof woof woof woof? woooof wf."




Finding myself thus hard pushed, I replied. "I mean, sir, the same
Wooooof woooof woof woof woooof, W wooooof. "W woof, wof, wof woof

ancient Catholic Church to which you and I, and Captain Peleg there,
wooooof Woooooof Woooof wf wooof wof wof W, wof Wooooof Wooof wooof,

and Queequeg here, and all of us, and every mother's son and soul of
wof Woooooof woof, wof wof wf wf, wof wooof woooof'w wof wof woof wf

us belong; the great and everlasting First Congregation of this whole
wf woooof; wof wooof wof wooooooooof Wooof Woooooooooof wf woof wooof

worshipping world; we all belong to that; only some of us cherish some
wooooooooof wooof; wf wof woooof wf woof; woof woof wf wf wooooof woof

queer crotchets no ways touching the grand belief; in THAT we all join
wooof wooooooof wf woof woooooof wof wooof woooof; wf WOOF wf wof woof

hands."
wooof."




"Splice, thou mean'st SPLICE hands," cried Peleg, drawing nearer. "Young
"Woooof, woof woof'wf WOOOOF wooof," wooof Wooof, wooooof woooof. "Wooof

man, you'd better ship for a missionary, instead of a fore-mast hand;
wof, wof'w woooof woof wof w woooooooof, wooooof wf w woof-woof woof;

I never heard a better sermon. Deacon Deuteronomy--why Father Mapple
W wooof wooof w woooof woooof. Woooof Wooooooooof--wof Woooof Woooof

himself couldn't beat it, and he's reckoned something. Come aboard, come
wooooof woooof'w woof wf, wof wf'w woooooof wooooooof. Woof woooof, woof

aboard; never mind about the papers. I say, tell Quohog there--what's
woooof; wooof woof wooof wof woooof. W wof, woof Woooof wooof--woof'w

that you call him? tell Quohog to step along. By the great anchor, what
woof wof woof wof? woof Woooof wf woof wooof. Wf wof wooof woooof, woof

a harpoon he's got there! looks like good stuff that; and he handles it
w wooooof wf'w wof wooof! wooof woof woof wooof woof; wof wf wooooof wf

about right. I say, Quohog, or whatever your name is, did you ever stand
wooof wooof. W wof, Woooof, wf woooooof woof woof wf, wof wof woof wooof

in the head of a whale-boat? did you ever strike a fish?"
wf wof woof wf w wooof-woof? wof wof woof woooof w woof?"




Without saying a word, Queequeg, in his wild sort of way, jumped upon
Wooooof woooof w woof, Woooooof, wf wof woof woof wf wof, woooof woof

the bulwarks, from thence into the bows of one of the whale-boats
wof woooooof, woof woooof woof wof woof wf wof wf wof wooof-wooof

hanging to the side; and then bracing his left knee, and poising his
wooooof wf wof woof; wof woof wooooof wof woof woof, wof wooooof wof

harpoon, cried out in some such way as this:--
wooooof, wooof wof wf woof woof wof wf woof:--




"Cap'ain, you see him small drop tar on water dere? You see him? well,
"Wof'wof, wof wof wof wooof woof wof wf wooof woof? Wof wof wof? woof,

spose him one whale eye, well, den!" and taking sharp aim at it, he
wooof wof wof wooof wof, woof, wof!" wof woooof wooof wof wf wf, wf

darted the iron right over old Bildad's broad brim, clean across the
woooof wof woof wooof woof wof Woooof'w wooof woof, wooof woooof wof

ship's decks, and struck the glistening tar spot out of sight.
woof'w wooof, wof woooof wof woooooooof wof woof wof wf wooof.




"Now," said Queequeg, quietly hauling in the line, "spos-ee him whale-e
"Wof," woof Woooooof, wooooof wooooof wf wof woof, "woof-wf wof wooof-w

eye; why, dad whale dead."
wof; wof, wof wooof woof."




"Quick, Bildad," said Peleg, his partner, who, aghast at the close
"Wooof, Woooof," woof Wooof, wof wooooof, wof, woooof wf wof wooof

vicinity of the flying harpoon, had retreated towards the cabin gangway.
woooooof wf wof woooof wooooof, wof wooooooof wooooof wof wooof wooooof.

"Quick, I say, you Bildad, and get the ship's papers. We must have
"Wooof, W wof, wof Woooof, wof wof wof woof'w woooof. Wf woof woof

Hedgehog there, I mean Quohog, in one of our boats. Look ye, Quohog,
Woooooof wooof, W woof Woooof, wf wof wf wof wooof. Woof wf, Woooof,

we'll give ye the ninetieth lay, and that's more than ever was given a
wf'wf woof wf wof wooooooof wof, wof woof'w woof woof woof wof wooof w

harpooneer yet out of Nantucket."
woooooooof wof wof wf Wooooooof."




So down we went into the cabin, and to my great joy Queequeg was soon
Wf woof wf woof woof wof wooof, wof wf wf wooof wof Woooooof wof woof

enrolled among the same ship's company to which I myself belonged.
woooooof wooof wof woof woof'w wooooof wf wooof W woooof woooooof.




When all preliminaries were over and Peleg had got everything ready for
Woof wof wooooooooooof woof woof wof Wooof wof wof woooooooof wooof wof

signing, he turned to me and said, "I guess, Quohog there don't know how
wooooof, wf woooof wf wf wof woof, "W wooof, Woooof wooof wof'w woof wof

to write, does he? I say, Quohog, blast ye! dost thou sign thy name or
wf wooof, woof wf? W wof, Woooof, wooof wf! woof woof woof wof woof wf

make thy mark?"
woof wof woof?"




But at this question, Queequeg, who had twice or thrice before taken
Wof wf woof woooooof, Woooooof, wof wof wooof wf woooof woooof wooof

part in similar ceremonies, looked no ways abashed; but taking the
woof wf wooooof woooooooof, woooof wf woof wooooof; wof woooof wof

offered pen, copied upon the paper, in the proper place, an exact
wooooof wof, woooof woof wof wooof, wf wof woooof wooof, wf wooof

counterpart of a queer round figure which was tattooed upon his arm; so
wooooooooof wf w wooof wooof woooof wooof wof woooooof woof wof wof; wf

that through Captain Peleg's obstinate mistake touching his appellative,
woof wooooof Wooooof Wooof'w wooooooof wooooof woooooof wof wooooooooof,

it stood something like this:--
wf wooof wooooooof woof woof:--




Quohog. his X mark.
Woooof. wof W woof.




Meanwhile Captain Bildad sat earnestly and steadfastly eyeing Queequeg,
Wooooooof Wooooof Woooof wof wooooooof wof wooooooooof woooof Woooooof,

and at last rising solemnly and fumbling in the huge pockets of his
wof wf woof woooof woooooof wof woooooof wf wof woof wooooof wf wof

broad-skirted drab coat, took out a bundle of tracts, and selecting
wooof-wooooof woof woof, woof wof w woooof wf woooof, wof wooooooof

one entitled "The Latter Day Coming; or No Time to Lose," placed it in
wof woooooof "Wof Woooof Wof Woooof; wf Wf Woof wf Woof," woooof wf wf

Queequeg's hands, and then grasping them and the book with both his,
Woooooof'w wooof, wof woof woooooof woof wof wof woof woof woof wof,

looked earnestly into his eyes, and said, "Son of darkness, I must do my
woooof wooooooof woof wof woof, wof woof, "Wof wf woooooof, W woof wf wf

duty by thee; I am part owner of this ship, and feel concerned for the
woof wf woof; W wf woof wooof wf woof woof, wof woof wooooooof wof wof

souls of all its crew; if thou still clingest to thy Pagan ways, which I
wooof wf wof wof woof; wf woof wooof woooooof wf wof Wooof woof, wooof W

sadly fear, I beseech thee, remain not for aye a Belial bondsman. Spurn
wooof woof, W wooooof woof, woooof wof wof wof w Woooof woooooof. Wooof

the idol Bell, and the hideous dragon; turn from the wrath to come; mind
wof woof Woof, wof wof wooooof woooof; woof woof wof wooof wf woof; woof

thine eye, I say; oh! goodness gracious! steer clear of the fiery pit!"
wooof wof, W wof; wf! woooooof woooooof! wooof wooof wf wof wooof wof!"




Something of the salt sea yet lingered in old Bildad's language,
Wooooooof wf wof woof wof wof woooooof wf wof Woooof'w woooooof,

heterogeneously mixed with Scriptural and domestic phrases.
wooooooooooooof wooof woof Woooooooof wof woooooof wooooof.




"Avast there, avast there, Bildad, avast now spoiling our harpooneer,"
"Wooof wooof, wooof wooof, Woooof, wooof wof woooooof wof woooooooof,"

cried Peleg. "Pious harpooneers never make good voyagers--it takes the shark
wooof Wooof. "Wooof wooooooooof wooof woof woof woooooof--wf wooof wof wooof

out of 'em; no harpooneer is worth a straw who aint pretty sharkish.
wof wf 'wf; wf woooooooof wf wooof w wooof wof woof woooof woooooof.

There was young Nat Swaine, once the bravest boat-header out of all
Wooof wof wooof Wof Woooof, woof wof wooooof woof-woooof wof wf wof

Nantucket and the Vineyard; he joined the meeting, and never came to
Wooooooof wof wof Woooooof; wf woooof wof wooooof, wof wooof woof wf

good. He got so frightened about his plaguy soul, that he shrinked and
woof. Wf wof wf woooooooof wooof wof woooof woof, woof wf woooooof wof

sheered away from whales, for fear of after-claps, in case he got stove
wooooof woof woof woooof, wof woof wf wooof-wooof, wf woof wf wof wooof

and went to Davy Jones."
wof woof wf Woof Wooof."




"Peleg! Peleg!" said Bildad, lifting his eyes and hands, "thou thyself,
"Wooof! Wooof!" woof Woooof, wooooof wof woof wof wooof, "woof wooooof,

as I myself, hast seen many a perilous time; thou knowest, Peleg, what
wf W woooof, woof woof woof w woooooof woof; woof wooooof, Wooof, woof

it is to have the fear of death; how, then, can'st thou prate in this
wf wf wf woof wof woof wf wooof; wof, woof, wof'wf woof wooof wf woof

ungodly guise. Thou beliest thine own heart, Peleg. Tell me, when this
wooooof wooof. Woof wooooof wooof wof wooof, Wooof. Woof wf, woof woof

same Pequod here had her three masts overboard in that typhoon on Japan,
woof Woooof woof wof wof wooof wooof wooooooof wf woof wooooof wf Wooof,

that same voyage when thou went mate with Captain Ahab, did'st thou not
woof woof woooof woof woof woof woof woof Wooooof Woof, wof'wf woof wof

think of Death and the Judgment then?"
wooof wf Wooof wof wof Woooooof woof?"




"Hear him, hear him now," cried Peleg, marching across the cabin, and
"Woof wof, woof wof wof," wooof Wooof, woooooof woooof wof wooof, wof

thrusting his hands far down into his pockets,--"hear him, all of ye.
wooooooof wof wooof wof woof woof wof wooooof,--"woof wof, wof wf wf.

Think of that! When every moment we thought the ship would sink!
Wooof wf woof! Woof wooof woooof wf wooooof wof woof wooof woof!

Death and the Judgment then? What? With all three masts making such an
Wooof wof wof Woooooof woof? Woof? Woof wof wooof wooof woooof woof wf

everlasting thundering against the side; and every sea breaking over us,
wooooooooof woooooooof wooooof wof woof; wof wooof wof woooooof woof wf,

fore and aft. Think of Death and the Judgment then? No! no time to think
woof wof wof. Wooof wf Wooof wof wof Woooooof woof? Wf! wf woof wf wooof

about Death then. Life was what Captain Ahab and I was thinking of;
wooof Wooof woof. Woof wof woof Wooooof Woof wof W wof woooooof wf;

and how to save all hands--how to rig jury-masts--how to get into the
wof wof wf woof wof wooof--wof wf wof woof-wooof--wof wf wof woof wof

nearest port; that was what I was thinking of."
wooooof woof; woof wof woof W wof woooooof wf."




Bildad said no more, but buttoning up his coat, stalked on deck,
Woooof woof wf woof, wof wooooooof wf wof woof, wooooof wf woof,

where we followed him. There he stood, very quietly overlooking some
wooof wf woooooof wof. Wooof wf wooof, woof wooooof wooooooooof woof

sailmakers who were mending a top-sail in the waist. Now and then
woooooooof wof woof wooooof w wof-woof wf wof wooof. Wof wof woof

he stooped to pick up a patch, or save an end of tarred twine, which
wf wooooof wf woof wf w wooof, wf woof wf wof wf woooof wooof, wooof

otherwise might have been wasted.
wooooooof wooof woof woof woooof.










CHAPTER 19. The Prophet.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Wooooof.







"Shipmates, have ye shipped in that ship?"
"Wooooooof, woof wf wooooof wf woof woof?"




Queequeg and I had just left the Pequod, and were sauntering away from
Woooooof wof W wof woof woof wof Woooof, wof woof woooooooof woof woof

the water, for the moment each occupied with his own thoughts, when
wof wooof, wof wof woooof woof woooooof woof wof wof woooooof, woof

the above words were put to us by a stranger, who, pausing before us,
wof wooof wooof woof wof wf wf wf w woooooof, wof, wooooof woooof wf,

levelled his massive forefinger at the vessel in question. He was but
woooooof wof wooooof woooooooof wf wof woooof wf woooooof. Wf wof wof

shabbily apparelled in faded jacket and patched trowsers; a rag of a
woooooof woooooooof wf wooof woooof wof wooooof woooooof; w wof wf w

black handkerchief investing his neck. A confluent small-pox had in all
wooof woooooooooof wooooooof wof woof. W wooooooof wooof-wof wof wf wof

directions flowed over his face, and left it like the complicated ribbed
woooooooof woooof woof wof woof, wof woof wf woof wof wooooooooof woooof

bed of a torrent, when the rushing waters have been dried up.
wof wf w wooooof, woof wof wooooof woooof woof woof wooof wf.




"Have ye shipped in her?" he repeated.
"Woof wf wooooof wf wof?" wf woooooof.




"You mean the ship Pequod, I suppose," said I, trying to gain a little
"Wof woof wof woof Woooof, W wooooof," woof W, woooof wf woof w woooof

more time for an uninterrupted look at him.
woof woof wof wf wooooooooooof woof wf wof.




"Aye, the Pequod--that ship there," he said, drawing back his whole
"Wof, wof Woooof--woof woof wooof," wf woof, wooooof woof wof wooof

arm, and then rapidly shoving it straight out from him, with the fixed
wof, wof woof wooooof wooooof wf woooooof wof woof wof, woof wof wooof

bayonet of his pointed finger darted full at the object.
wooooof wf wof wooooof woooof woooof woof wf wof woooof.




"Yes," said I, "we have just signed the articles."
"Wof," woof W, "wf woof woof woooof wof woooooof."




"Anything down there about your souls?"
"Woooooof woof wooof wooof woof wooof?"




"About what?"
"Wooof woof?"




"Oh, perhaps you hav'n't got any," he said quickly. "No matter though,
"Wf, wooooof wof wof'w'w wof wof," wf woof wooooof. "Wf woooof woooof,

I know many chaps that hav'n't got any,--good luck to 'em; and they are
W woof woof wooof woof wof'w'w wof wof,--woof woof wf 'wf; wof woof wof

all the better off for it. A soul's a sort of a fifth wheel to a wagon."
wof wof woooof wof wof wf. W woof'w w woof wf w wooof wooof wf w wooof."




"What are you jabbering about, shipmate?" said I.
"Woof wof wof wooooooof wooof, woooooof?" woof W.




"HE'S got enough, though, to make up for all deficiencies of that sort
"WF'W wof woooof, woooof, wf woof wf wof wof woooooooooof wf woof woof

in other chaps," abruptly said the stranger, placing a nervous emphasis
wf wooof wooof," woooooof woof wof woooooof, wooooof w wooooof woooooof

upon the word HE.
woof wof woof WF.




"Queequeg," said I, "let's go; this fellow has broken loose from
"Woooooof," woof W, "wof'w wf; woof woooof wof woooof wooof woof

somewhere; he's talking about something and somebody we don't know."
wooooooof; wf'w wooooof wooof wooooooof wof woooooof wf wof'w woof."




"Stop!" cried the stranger. "Ye said true--ye hav'n't seen Old Thunder
"Woof!" wooof wof woooooof. "Wf woof woof--wf wof'w'w woof Wof Wooooof

yet, have ye?"
wof, woof wf?"




"Who's Old Thunder?" said I, again riveted with the insane earnestness
"Wof'w Wof Wooooof?" woof W, wooof wooooof woof wof woooof wooooooooof

of his manner.
wf wof woooof.




"Captain Ahab."
"Wooooof Woof."




"What! the captain of our ship, the Pequod?"
"Woof! wof wooooof wf wof woof, wof Woooof?"




"Aye, among some of us old sailor chaps, he goes by that name. Ye
"Wof, wooof woof wf wf wof woooof wooof, wf woof wf woof woof. Wf

hav'n't seen him yet, have ye?"
wof'w'w woof wof wof, woof wf?"




"No, we hav'n't. He's sick they say, but is getting better, and will be
"Wf, wf wof'w'w. Wf'w woof woof wof, wof wf wooooof woooof, wof woof wf

all right again before long."
wof wooof wooof woooof woof."




"All right again before long!" laughed the stranger, with a solemnly
"Wof wooof wooof woooof woof!" wooooof wof woooooof, woof w woooooof

derisive sort of laugh. "Look ye; when Captain Ahab is all right, then
woooooof woof wf wooof. "Woof wf; woof Wooooof Woof wf wof wooof, woof

this left arm of mine will be all right; not before."
woof woof wof wf woof woof wf wof wooof; wof woooof."




"What do you know about him?"
"Woof wf wof woof wooof wof?"




"What did they TELL you about him? Say that!"
"Woof wof woof WOOF wof wooof wof? Wof woof!"




"They didn't tell much of anything about him; only I've heard that he's
"Woof woof'w woof woof wf woooooof wooof wof; woof W'wf wooof woof wf'w

a good whale-hunter, and a good captain to his crew."
w woof wooof-woooof, wof w woof wooooof wf wof woof."




"That's true, that's true--yes, both true enough. But you must jump when
"Woof'w woof, woof'w woof--wof, woof woof woooof. Wof wof woof woof woof

he gives an order. Step and growl; growl and go--that's the word with
wf wooof wf wooof. Woof wof wooof; wooof wof wf--woof'w wof woof woof

Captain Ahab. But nothing about that thing that happened to him off Cape
Wooooof Woof. Wof wooooof wooof woof wooof woof woooooof wf wof wof Woof

Horn, long ago, when he lay like dead for three days and nights;
Woof, woof wof, woof wf wof woof woof wof wooof woof wof woooof;

nothing about that deadly skrimmage with the Spaniard afore the altar in
wooooof wooof woof woooof wooooooof woof wof Woooooof wooof wof wooof wf

Santa?--heard nothing about that, eh? Nothing about the silver calabash
Wooof?--wooof wooooof wooof woof, wf? Wooooof wooof wof woooof woooooof

he spat into? And nothing about his losing his leg last voyage,
wf woof woof? Wof wooooof wooof wof woooof wof wof woof woooof,

according to the prophecy. Didn't ye hear a word about them matters and
wooooooof wf wof woooooof. Woof'w wf woof w woof wooof woof wooooof wof

something more, eh? No, I don't think ye did; how could ye? Who knows
wooooooof woof, wf? Wf, W wof'w wooof wf wof; wof wooof wf? Wof wooof

it? Not all Nantucket, I guess. But hows'ever, mayhap, ye've heard tell
wf? Wof wof Wooooooof, W wooof. Wof woof'woof, woooof, wf'wf wooof woof

about the leg, and how he lost it; aye, ye have heard of that, I dare
wooof wof wof, wof wof wf woof wf; wof, wf woof wooof wf woof, W woof

say. Oh yes, THAT every one knows a'most--I mean they know he's only one
wof. Wf wof, WOOF wooof wof wooof w'woof--W woof woof woof wf'w woof wof

leg; and that a parmacetti took the other off."
wof; wof woof w woooooooof woof wof wooof wof."




"My friend," said I, "what all this gibberish of yours is about, I
"Wf woooof," woof W, "woof wof woof wooooooof wf wooof wf wooof, W

don't know, and I don't much care; for it seems to me that you must be a
wof'w woof, wof W wof'w woof woof; wof wf wooof wf wf woof wof woof wf w

little damaged in the head. But if you are speaking of Captain Ahab, of
woooof wooooof wf wof woof. Wof wf wof wof woooooof wf Wooooof Woof, wf

that ship there, the Pequod, then let me tell you, that I know all about
woof woof wooof, wof Woooof, woof wof wf woof wof, woof W woof wof wooof

the loss of his leg."
wof woof wf wof wof."




"ALL about it, eh--sure you do?--all?"
"WOF wooof wf, wf--woof wof wf?--wof?"




"Pretty sure."
"Woooof woof."




With finger pointed and eye levelled at the Pequod, the beggar-like
Woof woooof wooooof wof wof woooooof wf wof Woooof, wof woooof-woof

stranger stood a moment, as if in a troubled reverie; then starting a
woooooof wooof w woooof, wf wf wf w woooooof wooooof; woof woooooof w

little, turned and said:--"Ye've shipped, have ye? Names down on the
woooof, woooof wof woof:--"Wf'wf wooooof, woof wf? Wooof woof wf wof

papers? Well, well, what's signed, is signed; and what's to be, will be;
woooof? Woof, woof, woof'w woooof, wf woooof; wof woof'w wf wf, woof wf;

and then again, perhaps it won't be, after all. Anyhow, it's all fixed
wof woof wooof, wooooof wf wof'w wf, wooof wof. Woooof, wf'w wof wooof

and arranged a'ready; and some sailors or other must go with him, I
wof woooooof w'wooof; wof woof wooooof wf wooof woof wf woof wof, W

suppose; as well these as any other men, God pity 'em! Morning to ye,
wooooof; wf woof wooof wf wof wooof wof, Wof woof 'wf! Wooooof wf wf,

shipmates, morning; the ineffable heavens bless ye; I'm sorry I stopped
wooooooof, wooooof; wof wooooooof wooooof wooof wf; W'w wooof W wooooof

ye."
wf."




"Look here, friend," said I, "if you have anything important to tell
"Woof woof, woooof," woof W, "wf wof woof woooooof wooooooof wf woof

us, out with it; but if you are only trying to bamboozle us, you are
wf, wof woof wf; wof wf wof wof woof woooof wf wooooooof wf, wof wof

mistaken in your game; that's all I have to say."
woooooof wf woof woof; woof'w wof W woof wf wof."




"And it's said very well, and I like to hear a chap talk up that way;
"Wof wf'w woof woof woof, wof W woof wf woof w woof woof wf woof wof;

you are just the man for him--the likes of ye. Morning to ye, shipmates,
wof wof woof wof wof wof wof--wof wooof wf wf. Wooooof wf wf, wooooooof,

morning! Oh! when ye get there, tell 'em I've concluded not to make one
wooooof! Wf! woof wf wof wooof, woof 'wf W'wf wooooooof wof wf woof wof

of 'em."
wf 'wf."




"Ah, my dear fellow, you can't fool us that way--you can't fool us. It
"Wf, wf woof woooof, wof wof'w woof wf woof wof--wof wof'w woof wf. Wf

is the easiest thing in the world for a man to look as if he had a great
wf wof wooooof wooof wf wof wooof wof w wof wf woof wf wf wf wof w wooof

secret in him."
woooof wf wof."




"Morning to ye, shipmates, morning."
"Wooooof wf wf, wooooooof, wooooof."




"Morning it is," said I. "Come along, Queequeg, let's leave this crazy
"Wooooof wf wf," woof W. "Woof wooof, Woooooof, wof'w wooof woof wooof

man. But stop, tell me your name, will you?"
wof. Wof woof, woof wf woof woof, woof wof?"




"Elijah."
"Woooof."




Elijah! thought I, and we walked away, both commenting, after each
Woooof! wooooof W, wof wf woooof woof, woof woooooooof, wooof woof

other's fashion, upon this ragged old sailor; and agreed that he was
wooof'w wooooof, woof woof woooof wof woooof; wof woooof woof wf wof

nothing but a humbug, trying to be a bugbear. But we had not gone
wooooof wof w woooof, woooof wf wf w wooooof. Wof wf wof wof woof

perhaps above a hundred yards, when chancing to turn a corner, and
wooooof wooof w wooooof wooof, woof woooooof wf woof w woooof, wof

looking back as I did so, who should be seen but Elijah following us,
wooooof woof wf W wof wf, wof woooof wf woof wof Woooof wooooooof wf,

though at a distance. Somehow, the sight of him struck me so, that I
woooof wf w woooooof. Wooooof, wof wooof wf wof woooof wf wf, woof W

said nothing to Queequeg of his being behind, but passed on with my
woof wooooof wf Woooooof wf wof wooof woooof, wof woooof wf woof wf

comrade, anxious to see whether the stranger would turn the same corner
wooooof, wooooof wf wof wooooof wof woooooof wooof woof wof woof woooof

that we did. He did; and then it seemed to me that he was dogging
woof wf wof. Wf wof; wof woof wf woooof wf wf woof wf wof wooooof

us, but with what intent I could not for the life of me imagine. This
wf, wof woof woof woooof W wooof wof wof wof woof wf wf wooooof. Woof

circumstance, coupled with his ambiguous, half-hinting, half-revealing,
woooooooooof, wooooof woof wof wooooooof, woof-wooooof, woof-wooooooof,

shrouded sort of talk, now begat in me all kinds of vague wonderments
woooooof woof wf woof, wof wooof wf wf wof wooof wf wooof wooooooooof

and half-apprehensions, and all connected with the Pequod; and Captain
wof woof-wooooooooooof, wof wof wooooooof woof wof Woooof; wof Wooooof

Ahab; and the leg he had lost; and the Cape Horn fit; and the silver
Woof; wof wof wof wf wof woof; wof wof Woof Woof wof; wof wof woooof

calabash; and what Captain Peleg had said of him, when I left the ship
woooooof; wof woof Wooooof Wooof wof woof wf wof, woof W woof wof woof

the day previous; and the prediction of the squaw Tistig; and the voyage
wof wof woooooof; wof wof woooooooof wf wof wooof Woooof; wof wof woooof

we had bound ourselves to sail; and a hundred other shadowy things.
wf wof wooof wooooooof wf woof; wof w wooooof wooof wooooof woooof.




I was resolved to satisfy myself whether this ragged Elijah was really
W wof woooooof wf wooooof woooof wooooof woof woooof Woooof wof woooof

dogging us or not, and with that intent crossed the way with Queequeg,
wooooof wf wf wof, wof woof woof woooof wooooof wof wof woof Woooooof,

and on that side of it retraced our steps. But Elijah passed on, without
wof wf woof woof wf wf woooooof wof wooof. Wof Woooof woooof wf, wooooof

seeming to notice us. This relieved me; and once more, and finally as it
wooooof wf woooof wf. Woof woooooof wf; wof woof woof, wof wooooof wf wf

seemed to me, I pronounced him in my heart, a humbug.
woooof wf wf, W woooooooof wof wf wf wooof, w woooof.










CHAPTER 20. All Astir.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Wooof.







A day or two passed, and there was great activity aboard the Pequod.
W wof wf wof woooof, wof wooof wof wooof woooooof woooof wof Woooof.

Not only were the old sails being mended, but new sails were coming on
Wof woof woof wof wof wooof wooof woooof, wof wof wooof woof woooof wf

board, and bolts of canvas, and coils of rigging; in short, everything
wooof, wof wooof wf woooof, wof wooof wf wooooof; wf wooof, woooooooof

betokened that the ship's preparations were hurrying to a close. Captain
wooooooof woof wof woof'w woooooooooof woof woooooof wf w wooof. Wooooof

Peleg seldom or never went ashore, but sat in his wigwam keeping a sharp
Wooof woooof wf wooof woof woooof, wof wof wf wof woooof wooooof w wooof

look-out upon the hands: Bildad did all the purchasing and providing
woof-wof woof wof wooof: Woooof wof wof wof woooooooof wof wooooooof

at the stores; and the men employed in the hold and on the rigging were
wf wof woooof; wof wof wof woooooof wf wof woof wof wf wof wooooof woof

working till long after night-fall.
wooooof woof woof wooof wooof-woof.




On the day following Queequeg's signing the articles, word was given at
Wf wof wof wooooooof Woooooof'w wooooof wof woooooof, woof wof wooof wf

all the inns where the ship's company were stopping, that their chests
wof wof woof wooof wof woof'w wooooof woof woooooof, woof wooof woooof

must be on board before night, for there was no telling how soon
woof wf wf wooof woooof wooof, wof wooof wof wf wooooof wof woof

the vessel might be sailing. So Queequeg and I got down our traps,
wof woooof wooof wf wooooof. Wf Woooooof wof W wof woof wof wooof,

resolving, however, to sleep ashore till the last. But it seems they
wooooooof, wooooof, wf wooof woooof woof wof woof. Wof wf wooof woof

always give very long notice in these cases, and the ship did not sail
woooof woof woof woof woooof wf wooof wooof, wof wof woof wof wof woof

for several days. But no wonder; there was a good deal to be done, and
wof wooooof woof. Wof wf woooof; wooof wof w woof woof wf wf woof, wof

there is no telling how many things to be thought of, before the Pequod
wooof wf wf wooooof wof woof woooof wf wf wooooof wf, woooof wof Woooof

was fully equipped.
wof wooof woooooof.




Every one knows what a multitude of things--beds, sauce-pans, knives
Wooof wof wooof woof w wooooooof wf woooof--woof, wooof-woof, woooof

and forks, shovels and tongs, napkins, nut-crackers, and what not, are
wof wooof, wooooof wof wooof, wooooof, wof-woooooof, wof woof wof, wof

indispensable to the business of housekeeping. Just so with whaling,
wooooooooooof wf wof woooooof wf woooooooooof. Woof wf woof wooooof,

which necessitates a three-years' housekeeping upon the wide ocean,
wooof woooooooooof w wooof-wooof' woooooooooof woof wof woof wooof,

far from all grocers, costermongers, doctors, bakers, and bankers. And
wof woof wof wooooof, wooooooooooof, wooooof, woooof, wof wooooof. Wof

though this also holds true of merchant vessels, yet not by any means
woooof woof woof wooof woof wf woooooof wooooof, wof wof wf wof wooof

to the same extent as with whalemen. For besides the great length of the
wf wof woof woooof wf woof woooooof. Wof wooooof wof wooof woooof wf wof

whaling voyage, the numerous articles peculiar to the prosecution of the
wooooof woooof, wof woooooof woooooof woooooof wf wof wooooooooof wf wof

fishery, and the impossibility of replacing them at the remote harbors
wooooof, wof wof wooooooooooof wf wooooooof woof wf wof woooof wooooof

usually frequented, it must be remembered, that of all ships, whaling
wooooof woooooooof, wf woof wf woooooooof, woof wf wof wooof, wooooof

vessels are the most exposed to accidents of all kinds, and especially
wooooof wof wof woof wooooof wf wooooooof wf wof wooof, wof woooooooof

to the destruction and loss of the very things upon which the success of
wf wof wooooooooof wof woof wf wof woof woooof woof wooof wof wooooof wf

the voyage most depends. Hence, the spare boats, spare spars, and spare
wof woooof woof wooooof. Wooof, wof wooof wooof, wooof wooof, wof wooof

lines and harpoons, and spare everythings, almost, but a spare Captain
wooof wof woooooof, wof wooof wooooooooof, woooof, wof w wooof Wooooof

and duplicate ship.
wof wooooooof woof.




At the period of our arrival at the Island, the heaviest storage of the
Wf wof woooof wf wof wooooof wf wof Woooof, wof woooooof wooooof wf wof

Pequod had been almost completed; comprising her beef, bread, water,
Woooof wof woof woooof wooooooof; woooooooof wof woof, wooof, wooof,

fuel, and iron hoops and staves. But, as before hinted, for some time
woof, wof woof wooof wof woooof. Wof, wf woooof woooof, wof woof woof

there was a continual fetching and carrying on board of divers odds and
wooof wof w wooooooof woooooof wof woooooof wf wooof wf woooof woof wof

ends of things, both large and small.
woof wf woooof, woof wooof wof wooof.




Chief among those who did this fetching and carrying was Captain
Wooof wooof wooof wof wof woof woooooof wof woooooof wof Wooooof

Bildad's sister, a lean old lady of a most determined and indefatigable
Woooof'w woooof, w woof wof woof wf w woof woooooooof wof wooooooooooof

spirit, but withal very kindhearted, who seemed resolved that, if SHE
woooof, wof woooof woof wooooooooof, wof woooof woooooof woof, wf WOF

could help it, nothing should be found wanting in the Pequod, after once
wooof woof wf, wooooof woooof wf wooof wooooof wf wof Woooof, wooof woof

fairly getting to sea. At one time she would come on board with a jar
woooof wooooof wf wof. Wf wof woof wof wooof woof wf wooof woof w wof

of pickles for the steward's pantry; another time with a bunch of quills
wf wooooof wof wof wooooof'w woooof; wooooof woof woof w wooof wf woooof

for the chief mate's desk, where he kept his log; a third time with a
wof wof wooof woof'w woof, wooof wf woof wof wof; w wooof woof woof w

roll of flannel for the small of some one's rheumatic back. Never did
woof wf wooooof wof wof wooof wf woof wof'w wooooooof woof. Wooof wof

any woman better deserve her name, which was Charity--Aunt Charity, as
wof wooof woooof wooooof wof woof, wooof wof Wooooof--Woof Wooooof, wf

everybody called her. And like a sister of charity did this charitable
wooooooof woooof wof. Wof woof w woooof wf wooooof wof woof woooooooof

Aunt Charity bustle about hither and thither, ready to turn her hand
Woof Wooooof woooof wooof woooof wof wooooof, wooof wf woof wof woof

and heart to anything that promised to yield safety, comfort, and
wof wooof wf woooooof woof woooooof wf wooof woooof, wooooof, wof

consolation to all on board a ship in which her beloved brother
wooooooooof wf wof wf wooof w woof wf wooof wof wooooof wooooof

Bildad was concerned, and in which she herself owned a score or two of
Woooof wof wooooooof, wof wf wooof wof wooooof wooof w wooof wf wof wf

well-saved dollars.
woof-wooof wooooof.




But it was startling to see this excellent hearted Quakeress coming on
Wof wf wof wooooooof wf wof woof wooooooof wooooof Wooooooof woooof wf

board, as she did the last day, with a long oil-ladle in one hand, and
wooof, wf wof wof wof woof wof, woof w woof wof-wooof wf wof woof, wof

a still longer whaling lance in the other. Nor was Bildad himself nor
w wooof woooof wooooof wooof wf wof wooof. Wof wof Woooof wooooof wof

Captain Peleg at all backward. As for Bildad, he carried about with him
Wooooof Wooof wf wof woooooof. Wf wof Woooof, wf wooooof wooof woof wof

a long list of the articles needed, and at every fresh arrival, down
w woof woof wf wof woooooof woooof, wof wf wooof wooof wooooof, woof

went his mark opposite that article upon the paper. Every once in a
woof wof woof woooooof woof wooooof woof wof wooof. Wooof woof wf w

while Peleg came hobbling out of his whalebone den, roaring at the men
wooof Wooof woof woooooof wof wf wof wooooooof wof, wooooof wf wof wof

down the hatchways, roaring up to the riggers at the mast-head, and then
woof wof wooooooof, wooooof wf wf wof wooooof wf wof woof-woof, wof woof

concluded by roaring back into his wigwam.
wooooooof wf wooooof woof woof wof woooof.




During these days of preparation, Queequeg and I often visited the
Woooof wooof woof wf wooooooooof, Woooooof wof W wooof wooooof wof

craft, and as often I asked about Captain Ahab, and how he was, and when
wooof, wof wf wooof W wooof wooof Wooooof Woof, wof wof wf wof, wof woof

he was going to come on board his ship. To these questions they would
wf wof wooof wf woof wf wooof wof woof. Wf wooof wooooooof woof wooof

answer, that he was getting better and better, and was expected aboard
woooof, woof wf wof wooooof woooof wof woooof, wof wof woooooof woooof

every day; meantime, the two captains, Peleg and Bildad, could attend
wooof wof; woooooof, wof wof woooooof, Wooof wof Woooof, wooof woooof

to everything necessary to fit the vessel for the voyage. If I had been
wf woooooooof wooooooof wf wof wof woooof wof wof woooof. Wf W wof woof

downright honest with myself, I would have seen very plainly in my heart
wooooooof woooof woof woooof, W wooof woof woof woof wooooof wf wf wooof

that I did but half fancy being committed this way to so long a voyage,
woof W wof wof woof wooof wooof wooooooof woof wof wf wf woof w woooof,

without once laying my eyes on the man who was to be the absolute
wooooof woof woooof wf woof wf wof wof wof wof wf wf wof woooooof

dictator of it, so soon as the ship sailed out upon the open sea.
woooooof wf wf, wf woof wf wof woof woooof wof woof wof woof wof.

But when a man suspects any wrong, it sometimes happens that if he be
Wof woof w wof woooooof wof wooof, wf wooooooof wooooof woof wf wf wf

already involved in the matter, he insensibly strives to cover up his
wooooof woooooof wf wof woooof, wf woooooooof wooooof wf wooof wf wof

suspicions even from himself. And much this way it was with me. I said
woooooooof woof woof wooooof. Wof woof woof wof wf wof woof wf. W woof

nothing, and tried to think nothing.
wooooof, wof wooof wf wooof wooooof.




At last it was given out that some time next day the ship would
Wf woof wf wof wooof wof woof woof woof woof wof wof woof wooof

certainly sail. So next morning, Queequeg and I took a very early start.
wooooooof woof. Wf woof wooooof, Woooooof wof W woof w woof wooof wooof.










CHAPTER 21. Going Aboard.
WOOOOOF wf. Wooof Woooof.







It was nearly six o'clock, but only grey imperfect misty dawn, when we
Wf wof woooof wof w'wooof, wof woof woof wooooooof wooof woof, woof wf

drew nigh the wharf.
woof woof wof wooof.




"There are some sailors running ahead there, if I see right," said I to
"Wooof wof woof wooooof wooooof wooof wooof, wf W wof wooof," woof W wf

Queequeg, "it can't be shadows; she's off by sunrise, I guess; come on!"
Woooooof, "wf wof'w wf wooooof; wof'w wof wf wooooof, W wooof; woof wf!"




"Avast!" cried a voice, whose owner at the same time coming close behind
"Wooof!" wooof w wooof, wooof wooof wf wof woof woof woooof wooof woooof

us, laid a hand upon both our shoulders, and then insinuating himself
wf, woof w woof woof woof wof wooooooof, wof woof wooooooooof wooooof

between us, stood stooping forward a little, in the uncertain twilight,
wooooof wf, wooof woooooof wooooof w woooof, wf wof wooooooof woooooof,

strangely peering from Queequeg to me. It was Elijah.
wooooooof wooooof woof Woooooof wf wf. Wf wof Woooof.




"Going aboard?"
"Wooof woooof?"




"Hands off, will you," said I.
"Wooof wof, woof wof," woof W.




"Lookee here," said Queequeg, shaking himself, "go 'way!"
"Woooof woof," woof Woooooof, wooooof wooooof, "wf 'wof!"




"Ain't going aboard, then?"
"Wof'w wooof woooof, woof?"




"Yes, we are," said I, "but what business is that of yours? Do you know,
"Wof, wf wof," woof W, "wof woof woooooof wf woof wf wooof? Wf wof woof,

Mr. Elijah, that I consider you a little impertinent?"
Wf. Woooof, woof W woooooof wof w woooof wooooooooof?"




"No, no, no; I wasn't aware of that," said Elijah, slowly and
"Wf, wf, wf; W woof'w wooof wf woof," woof Woooof, woooof wof

wonderingly looking from me to Queequeg, with the most unaccountable
wooooooooof wooooof woof wf wf Woooooof, woof wof woof wooooooooooof

glances.
wooooof.




"Elijah," said I, "you will oblige my friend and me by withdrawing. We
"Woooof," woof W, "wof woof woooof wf woooof wof wf wf wooooooooof. Wf

are going to the Indian and Pacific Oceans, and would prefer not to be
wof wooof wf wof Woooof wof Wooooof Woooof, wof wooof woooof wof wf wf

detained."
woooooof."




"Ye be, be ye? Coming back afore breakfast?"
"Wf wf, wf wf? Woooof woof wooof wooooooof?"




"He's cracked, Queequeg," said I, "come on."
"Wf'w wooooof, Woooooof," woof W, "woof wf."




"Holloa!" cried stationary Elijah, hailing us when we had removed a few
"Woooof!" wooof woooooooof Woooof, wooooof wf woof wf wof wooooof w wof

paces.
wooof.




"Never mind him," said I, "Queequeg, come on."
"Wooof woof wof," woof W, "Woooooof, woof wf."




But he stole up to us again, and suddenly clapping his hand on my
Wof wf wooof wf wf wf wooof, wof woooooof woooooof wof woof wf wf

shoulder, said--"Did ye see anything looking like men going towards that
woooooof, woof--"Wof wf wof woooooof wooooof woof wof wooof wooooof woof

ship a while ago?"
woof w wooof wof?"




Struck by this plain matter-of-fact question, I answered, saying, "Yes,
Woooof wf woof wooof woooof-wf-woof woooooof, W woooooof, woooof, "Wof,

I thought I did see four or five men; but it was too dim to be sure."
W wooooof W wof wof woof wf woof wof; wof wf wof wof wof wf wf woof."




"Very dim, very dim," said Elijah. "Morning to ye."
"Woof wof, woof wof," woof Woooof. "Wooooof wf wf."




Once more we quitted him; but once more he came softly after us; and
Woof woof wf wooooof wof; wof woof woof wf woof woooof wooof wf; wof

touching my shoulder again, said, "See if you can find 'em now, will ye?
woooooof wf woooooof wooof, woof, "Wof wf wof wof woof 'wf wof, woof wf?




"Find who?"
"Woof wof?"




"Morning to ye! morning to ye!" he rejoined, again moving off. "Oh! I
"Wooooof wf wf! wooooof wf wf!" wf woooooof, wooof woooof wof. "Wf! W

was going to warn ye against--but never mind, never mind--it's all one,
wof wooof wf woof wf wooooof--wof wooof woof, wooof woof--wf'w wof wof,

all in the family too;--sharp frost this morning, ain't it? Good-bye to
wof wf wof woooof wof;--wooof wooof woof wooooof, wof'w wf? Woof-wof wf

ye. Shan't see ye again very soon, I guess; unless it's before the Grand
wf. Woof'w wof wf wooof woof woof, W wooof; woooof wf'w woooof wof Wooof

Jury." And with these cracked words he finally departed, leaving me, for
Woof." Wof woof wooof wooooof wooof wf wooooof woooooof, wooooof wf, wof

the moment, in no small wonderment at his frantic impudence.
wof woooof, wf wf wooof woooooooof wf wof wooooof wooooooof.




At last, stepping on board the Pequod, we found everything in profound
Wf woof, woooooof wf wooof wof Woooof, wf wooof woooooooof wf woooooof

quiet, not a soul moving. The cabin entrance was locked within; the
wooof, wof w woof woooof. Wof wooof woooooof wof woooof woooof; wof

hatches were all on, and lumbered with coils of rigging. Going forward
wooooof woof wof wf, wof woooooof woof wooof wf wooooof. Wooof wooooof

to the forecastle, we found the slide of the scuttle open. Seeing a
wf wof woooooooof, wf wooof wof wooof wf wof wooooof woof. Woooof w

light, we went down, and found only an old rigger there, wrapped in a
wooof, wf woof woof, wof wooof woof wf wof woooof wooof, wooooof wf w

tattered pea-jacket. He was thrown at whole length upon two chests, his
woooooof wof-woooof. Wf wof woooof wf wooof woooof woof wof woooof, wof

face downwards and inclosed in his folded arms. The profoundest slumber
woof wooooooof wof woooooof wf wof woooof woof. Wof wooooooooof wooooof

slept upon him.
wooof woof wof.




"Those sailors we saw, Queequeg, where can they have gone to?" said I,
"Wooof wooooof wf wof, Woooooof, wooof wof woof woof woof wf?" woof W,

looking dubiously at the sleeper. But it seemed that, when on the wharf,
wooooof wooooooof wf wof wooooof. Wof wf woooof woof, woof wf wof wooof,

Queequeg had not at all noticed what I now alluded to; hence I would
Woooooof wof wof wf wof wooooof woof W wof wooooof wf; wooof W wooof

have thought myself to have been optically deceived in that matter,
woof wooooof woooof wf woof woof wooooooof woooooof wf woof woooof,

were it not for Elijah's otherwise inexplicable question. But I beat the
woof wf wof wof Woooof'w wooooooof woooooooooof woooooof. Wof W woof wof

thing down; and again marking the sleeper, jocularly hinted to Queequeg
wooof woof; wof wooof wooooof wof wooooof, wooooooof woooof wf Woooooof

that perhaps we had best sit up with the body; telling him to establish
woof wooooof wf wof woof wof wf woof wof woof; wooooof wof wf wooooooof

himself accordingly. He put his hand upon the sleeper's rear, as though
wooooof wooooooooof. Wf wof wof woof woof wof wooooof'w woof, wf woooof

feeling if it was soft enough; and then, without more ado, sat quietly
wooooof wf wf wof woof woooof; wof woof, wooooof woof wof, wof wooooof

down there.
woof wooof.




"Gracious! Queequeg, don't sit there," said I.
"Woooooof! Woooooof, wof'w wof wooof," woof W.




"Oh! perry dood seat," said Queequeg, "my country way; won't hurt him
"Wf! wooof woof woof," woof Woooooof, "wf wooooof wof; wof'w woof wof

face."
woof."




"Face!" said I, "call that his face? very benevolent countenance then;
"Woof!" woof W, "woof woof wof woof? woof woooooooof wooooooooof woof;

but how hard he breathes, he's heaving himself; get off, Queequeg, you
wof wof woof wf woooooof, wf'w wooooof wooooof; wof wof, Woooooof, wof

are heavy, it's grinding the face of the poor. Get off, Queequeg! Look,
wof wooof, wf'w woooooof wof woof wf wof woof. Wof wof, Woooooof! Woof,

he'll twitch you off soon. I wonder he don't wake."
wf'wf woooof wof wof woof. W woooof wf wof'w woof."




Queequeg removed himself to just beyond the head of the sleeper, and
Woooooof wooooof wooooof wf woof woooof wof woof wf wof wooooof, wof

lighted his tomahawk pipe. I sat at the feet. We kept the pipe passing
wooooof wof woooooof woof. W wof wf wof woof. Wf woof wof woof wooooof

over the sleeper, from one to the other. Meanwhile, upon questioning him
woof wof wooooof, woof wof wf wof wooof. Wooooooof, woof wooooooooof wof

in his broken fashion, Queequeg gave me to understand that, in his
wf wof woooof wooooof, Woooooof woof wf wf woooooooof woof, wf wof

land, owing to the absence of settees and sofas of all sorts, the king,
woof, wooof wf wof wooooof wf wooooof wof wooof wf wof wooof, wof woof,

chiefs, and great people generally, were in the custom of fattening some
woooof, wof wooof woooof wooooooof, woof wf wof woooof wf wooooooof woof

of the lower orders for ottomans; and to furnish a house comfortably in
wf wof wooof woooof wof woooooof; wof wf wooooof w wooof wooooooooof wf

that respect, you had only to buy up eight or ten lazy fellows, and lay
woof wooooof, wof wof woof wf wof wf wooof wf wof woof wooooof, wof wof

them round in the piers and alcoves. Besides, it was very convenient on
woof wooof wf wof wooof wof wooooof. Wooooof, wf wof woof woooooooof wf

an excursion; much better than those garden-chairs which are convertible
wf wooooooof; woof woooof woof wooof woooof-woooof wooof wof wooooooooof

into walking-sticks; upon occasion, a chief calling his attendant, and
woof wooooof-woooof; woof woooooof, w wooof wooooof wof wooooooof, wof

desiring him to make a settee of himself under a spreading tree, perhaps
woooooof wof wf woof w woooof wf wooooof wooof w wooooooof woof, wooooof

in some damp marshy place.
wf woof woof woooof wooof.




While narrating these things, every time Queequeg received the tomahawk
Wooof wooooooof wooof woooof, wooof woof Woooooof woooooof wof woooooof

from me, he flourished the hatchet-side of it over the sleeper's head.
woof wf, wf woooooooof wof wooooof-woof wf wf woof wof wooooof'w woof.




"What's that for, Queequeg?"
"Woof'w woof wof, Woooooof?"




"Perry easy, kill-e; oh! perry easy!"
"Wooof woof, woof-w; wf! wooof woof!"




He was going on with some wild reminiscences about his tomahawk-pipe,
Wf wof wooof wf woof woof woof wooooooooooof wooof wof woooooof-woof,

which, it seemed, had in its two uses both brained his foes and soothed
wooof, wf woooof, wof wf wof wof woof woof wooooof wof woof wof wooooof

his soul, when we were directly attracted to the sleeping rigger. The
wof woof, woof wf woof woooooof wooooooof wf wof woooooof woooof. Wof

strong vapour now completely filling the contracted hole, it began
woooof woooof wof woooooooof wooooof wof woooooooof woof, wf wooof

to tell upon him. He breathed with a sort of muffledness; then seemed
wf woof woof wof. Wf woooooof woof w woof wf wooooooooof; woof woooof

troubled in the nose; then revolved over once or twice; then sat up and
woooooof wf wof woof; woof woooooof woof woof wf wooof; woof wof wf wof

rubbed his eyes.
woooof wof woof.




"Holloa!" he breathed at last, "who be ye smokers?"
"Woooof!" wf woooooof wf woof, "wof wf wf wooooof?"




"Shipped men," answered I, "when does she sail?"
"Wooooof wof," woooooof W, "woof woof wof woof?"




"Aye, aye, ye are going in her, be ye? She sails to-day. The Captain
"Wof, wof, wf wof wooof wf wof, wf wf? Wof wooof wf-wof. Wof Wooooof

came aboard last night."
woof woooof woof wooof."




"What Captain?--Ahab?"
"Woof Wooooof?--Woof?"




"Who but him indeed?"
"Wof wof wof woooof?"




I was going to ask him some further questions concerning Ahab, when we
W wof wooof wf wof wof woof wooooof wooooooof woooooooof Woof, woof wf

heard a noise on deck.
wooof w wooof wf woof.




"Holloa! Starbuck's astir," said the rigger. "He's a lively chief mate,
"Woooof! Woooooof'w wooof," woof wof woooof. "Wf'w w woooof wooof woof,

that; good man, and a pious; but all alive now, I must turn to." And so
woof; woof wof, wof w wooof; wof wof wooof wof, W woof woof wf." Wof wf

saying he went on deck, and we followed.
woooof wf woof wf woof, wof wf woooooof.




It was now clear sunrise. Soon the crew came on board in twos and
Wf wof wof wooof wooooof. Woof wof woof woof wf wooof wf woof wof

threes; the riggers bestirred themselves; the mates were actively
woooof; wof wooooof wooooooof woooooooof; wof wooof woof woooooof

engaged; and several of the shore people were busy in bringing various
wooooof; wof wooooof wf wof wooof woooof woof woof wf woooooof wooooof

last things on board. Meanwhile Captain Ahab remained invisibly
woof woooof wf wooof. Wooooooof Wooooof Woof woooooof wooooooof

enshrined within his cabin.
wooooooof woooof wof wooof.










CHAPTER 22. Merry Christmas.
WOOOOOF wf. Wooof Wooooooof.







At length, towards noon, upon the final dismissal of the ship's riggers,
Wf woooof, wooooof woof, woof wof wooof wooooooof wf wof woof'w wooooof,

and after the Pequod had been hauled out from the wharf, and after the
wof wooof wof Woooof wof woof woooof wof woof wof wooof, wof wooof wof

ever-thoughtful Charity had come off in a whale-boat, with her last
woof-woooooooof Wooooof wof woof wof wf w wooof-woof, woof wof woof

gift--a night-cap for Stubb, the second mate, her brother-in-law, and a
woof--w wooof-wof wof Wooof, wof woooof woof, wof wooooof-wf-wof, wof w

spare Bible for the steward--after all this, the two Captains, Peleg
wooof Wooof wof wof wooooof--wooof wof woof, wof wof Woooooof, Wooof

and Bildad, issued from the cabin, and turning to the chief mate, Peleg
wof Woooof, woooof woof wof wooof, wof wooooof wf wof wooof woof, Wooof

said:
woof:




"Now, Mr. Starbuck, are you sure everything is right? Captain Ahab is
"Wof, Wf. Woooooof, wof wof woof woooooooof wf wooof? Wooooof Woof wf

all ready--just spoke to him--nothing more to be got from shore, eh?
wof wooof--woof wooof wf wof--wooooof woof wf wf wof woof wooof, wf?

Well, call all hands, then. Muster 'em aft here--blast 'em!"
Woof, woof wof wooof, woof. Woooof 'wf wof woof--wooof 'wf!"




"No need of profane words, however great the hurry, Peleg," said Bildad,
"Wf woof wf wooooof wooof, wooooof wooof wof wooof, Wooof," woof Woooof,

"but away with thee, friend Starbuck, and do our bidding."
"wof woof woof woof, woooof Woooooof, wof wf wof wooooof."




How now! Here upon the very point of starting for the voyage, Captain
Wof wof! Woof woof wof woof wooof wf woooooof wof wof woooof, Wooooof

Peleg and Captain Bildad were going it with a high hand on the
Wooof wof Wooooof Woooof woof wooof wf woof w woof woof wf wof

quarter-deck, just as if they were to be joint-commanders at sea, as
wooooof-woof, woof wf wf woof woof wf wf wooof-woooooooof wf wof, wf

well as to all appearances in port. And, as for Captain Ahab, no sign of
woof wf wf wof wooooooooof wf woof. Wof, wf wof Wooooof Woof, wf woof wf

him was yet to be seen; only, they said he was in the cabin. But then,
wof wof wof wf wf woof; woof, woof woof wf wof wf wof wooof. Wof woof,

the idea was, that his presence was by no means necessary in getting the
wof woof wof, woof wof woooooof wof wf wf wooof wooooooof wf wooooof wof

ship under weigh, and steering her well out to sea. Indeed, as that was
woof wooof wooof, wof woooooof wof woof wof wf wof. Woooof, wf woof wof

not at all his proper business, but the pilot's; and as he was not
wof wf wof wof woooof woooooof, wof wof wooof'w; wof wf wf wof wof

yet completely recovered--so they said--therefore, Captain Ahab stayed
wof woooooooof wooooooof--wf woof woof--wooooooof, Wooooof Woof woooof

below. And all this seemed natural enough; especially as in the merchant
wooof. Wof wof woof woooof wooooof woooof; woooooooof wf wf wof woooooof

service many captains never show themselves on deck for a considerable
wooooof woof woooooof wooof woof woooooooof wf woof wof w woooooooooof

time after heaving up the anchor, but remain over the cabin table,
woof wooof wooooof wf wof woooof, wof woooof woof wof wooof wooof,

having a farewell merry-making with their shore friends, before they
woooof w woooooof wooof-woooof woof wooof wooof wooooof, woooof woof

quit the ship for good with the pilot.
woof wof woof wof woof woof wof wooof.




But there was not much chance to think over the matter, for Captain
Wof wooof wof wof woof woooof wf wooof woof wof woooof, wof Wooooof

Peleg was now all alive. He seemed to do most of the talking and
Wooof wof wof wof wooof. Wf woooof wf wf woof wf wof wooooof wof

commanding, and not Bildad.
woooooooof, wof wof Woooof.




"Aft here, ye sons of bachelors," he cried, as the sailors lingered at
"Wof woof, wf woof wf wooooooof," wf wooof, wf wof wooooof woooooof wf

the main-mast. "Mr. Starbuck, drive'em aft."
wof woof-woof. "Wf. Woooooof, wooof'wf wof."




"Strike the tent there!"--was the next order. As I hinted before, this
"Woooof wof woof wooof!"--wof wof woof wooof. Wf W woooof woooof, woof

whalebone marquee was never pitched except in port; and on board the
wooooooof wooooof wof wooof wooooof woooof wf woof; wof wf wooof wof

Pequod, for thirty years, the order to strike the tent was well known to
Woooof, wof woooof wooof, wof wooof wf woooof wof woof wof woof wooof wf

be the next thing to heaving up the anchor.
wf wof woof wooof wf wooooof wf wof woooof.




"Man the capstan! Blood and thunder!--jump!"--was the next command, and
"Wof wof wooooof! Wooof wof wooooof!--woof!"--wof wof woof wooooof, wof

the crew sprang for the handspikes.
wof woof woooof wof wof woooooooof.




Now in getting under weigh, the station generally occupied by the pilot
Wof wf wooooof wooof wooof, wof wooooof wooooooof woooooof wf wof wooof

is the forward part of the ship. And here Bildad, who, with Peleg, be it
wf wof wooooof woof wf wof woof. Wof woof Woooof, wof, woof Wooof, wf wf

known, in addition to his other officers, was one of the licensed pilots
wooof, wf woooooof wf wof wooof woooooof, wof wof wf wof woooooof woooof

of the port--he being suspected to have got himself made a pilot in
wf wof woof--wf wooof wooooooof wf woof wof wooooof woof w wooof wf

order to save the Nantucket pilot-fee to all the ships he was concerned
wooof wf woof wof Wooooooof wooof-wof wf wof wof wooof wf wof wooooooof

in, for he never piloted any other craft--Bildad, I say, might now
wf, wof wf wooof wooooof wof wooof wooof--Woooof, W wof, wooof wof

be seen actively engaged in looking over the bows for the approaching
wf woof woooooof wooooof wf wooooof woof wof woof wof wof wooooooooof

anchor, and at intervals singing what seemed a dismal stave of psalmody,
woooof, wof wf wooooooof wooooof woof woooof w woooof wooof wf woooooof,

to cheer the hands at the windlass, who roared forth some sort of
wf wooof wof wooof wf wof woooooof, wof woooof wooof woof woof wf

a chorus about the girls in Booble Alley, with hearty good will.
w woooof wooof wof wooof wf Woooof Wooof, woof woooof woof woof.

Nevertheless, not three days previous, Bildad had told them that no
Woooooooooof, wof wooof woof woooooof, Woooof wof woof woof woof wf

profane songs would be allowed on board the Pequod, particularly in
wooooof wooof wooof wf wooooof wf wooof wof Woooof, woooooooooof wf

getting under weigh; and Charity, his sister, had placed a small choice
wooooof wooof wooof; wof Wooooof, wof woooof, wof woooof w wooof woooof

copy of Watts in each seaman's berth.
woof wf Wooof wf woof woooof'w wooof.




Meantime, overseeing the other part of the ship, Captain Peleg ripped
Woooooof, woooooooof wof wooof woof wf wof woof, Wooooof Wooof woooof

and swore astern in the most frightful manner. I almost thought he would
wof wooof woooof wf wof woof wooooooof woooof. W woooof wooooof wf wooof

sink the ship before the anchor could be got up; involuntarily I paused
woof wof woof woooof wof woooof wooof wf wof wf; wooooooooooof W woooof

on my handspike, and told Queequeg to do the same, thinking of the
wf wf wooooooof, wof woof Woooooof wf wf wof woof, woooooof wf wof

perils we both ran, in starting on the voyage with such a devil for a
woooof wf woof wof, wf woooooof wf wof woooof woof woof w wooof wof w

pilot. I was comforting myself, however, with the thought that in pious
wooof. W wof woooooooof woooof, wooooof, woof wof wooooof woof wf wooof

Bildad might be found some salvation, spite of his seven hundred and
Woooof wooof wf wooof woof wooooooof, wooof wf wof wooof wooooof wof

seventy-seventh lay; when I felt a sudden sharp poke in my rear, and
wooooof-wooooof wof; woof W woof w woooof wooof woof wf wf woof, wof

turning round, was horrified at the apparition of Captain Peleg in the
wooooof wooof, wof wooooooof wf wof woooooooof wf Wooooof Wooof wf wof

act of withdrawing his leg from my immediate vicinity. That was my first
wof wf wooooooooof wof wof woof wf wooooooof woooooof. Woof wof wf wooof

kick.
woof.




"Is that the way they heave in the marchant service?" he roared.
"Wf woof wof wof woof wooof wf wof woooooof wooooof?" wf woooof.

"Spring, thou sheep-head; spring, and break thy backbone! Why don't ye
"Woooof, woof wooof-woof; woooof, wof wooof wof woooooof! Wof wof'w wf

spring, I say, all of ye--spring! Quohog! spring, thou chap with the red
woooof, W wof, wof wf wf--woooof! Woooof! woooof, woof woof woof wof wof

whiskers; spring there, Scotch-cap; spring, thou green pants. Spring, I
woooooof; woooof wooof, Woooof-wof; woooof, woof wooof wooof. Woooof, W

say, all of ye, and spring your eyes out!" And so saying, he moved
wof, wof wf wf, wof woooof woof woof wof!" Wof wf woooof, wf wooof

along the windlass, here and there using his leg very freely, while
wooof wof woooooof, woof wof wooof wooof wof wof woof woooof, wooof

imperturbable Bildad kept leading off with his psalmody. Thinks I,
wooooooooooof Woooof woof wooooof wof woof wof woooooof. Woooof W,

Captain Peleg must have been drinking something to-day.
Wooooof Wooof woof woof woof woooooof wooooooof wf-wof.




At last the anchor was up, the sails were set, and off we glided. It
Wf woof wof woooof wof wf, wof wooof woof wof, wof wof wf woooof. Wf

was a short, cold Christmas; and as the short northern day merged into
wof w wooof, woof Wooooooof; wof wf wof wooof woooooof wof woooof woof

night, we found ourselves almost broad upon the wintry ocean, whose
wooof, wf wooof wooooooof woooof wooof woof wof woooof wooof, wooof

freezing spray cased us in ice, as in polished armor. The long rows of
woooooof wooof wooof wf wf wof, wf wf woooooof wooof. Wof woof woof wf

teeth on the bulwarks glistened in the moonlight; and like the white
wooof wf wof woooooof wooooooof wf wof wooooooof; wof woof wof wooof

ivory tusks of some huge elephant, vast curving icicles depended from
wooof wooof wf woof woof woooooof, woof wooooof wooooof woooooof woof

the bows.
wof woof.




Lank Bildad, as pilot, headed the first watch, and ever and anon, as the
Woof Woooof, wf wooof, woooof wof wooof wooof, wof woof wof woof, wf wof

old craft deep dived into the green seas, and sent the shivering frost
wof wooof woof wooof woof wof wooof woof, wof woof wof wooooooof wooof

all over her, and the winds howled, and the cordage rang, his steady
wof woof wof, wof wof wooof woooof, wof wof wooooof woof, wof woooof

notes were heard,--
wooof woof wooof,--




"Sweet fields beyond the swelling flood, Stand dressed in living green.
"Wooof woooof woooof wof woooooof wooof, Wooof wooooof wf woooof wooof.

So to the Jews old Canaan stood, While Jordan rolled between."
Wf wf wof Woof wof Woooof wooof, Wooof Woooof woooof wooooof."







Never did those sweet words sound more sweetly to me than then. They
Wooof wof wooof wooof wooof wooof woof wooooof wf wf woof woof. Woof

were full of hope and fruition. Spite of this frigid winter night in the
woof woof wf woof wof woooooof. Wooof wf woof woooof woooof wooof wf wof

boisterous Atlantic, spite of my wet feet and wetter jacket, there was
woooooooof Woooooof, wooof wf wf wof woof wof woooof woooof, wooof wof

yet, it then seemed to me, many a pleasant haven in store; and meads
wof, wf woof woooof wf wf, woof w woooooof wooof wf wooof; wof wooof

and glades so eternally vernal, that the grass shot up by the spring,
wof woooof wf wooooooof woooof, woof wof wooof woof wf wf wof woooof,

untrodden, unwilted, remains at midsummer.
wooooooof, woooooof, wooooof wf wooooooof.




At last we gained such an offing, that the two pilots were needed
Wf woof wf woooof woof wf woooof, woof wof wof woooof woof woooof

no longer. The stout sail-boat that had accompanied us began ranging
wf woooof. Wof wooof woof-woof woof wof wooooooooof wf wooof wooooof

alongside.
wooooooof.




It was curious and not unpleasing, how Peleg and Bildad were affected at
Wf wof wooooof wof wof woooooooof, wof Wooof wof Woooof woof woooooof wf

this juncture, especially Captain Bildad. For loath to depart, yet;
woof woooooof, woooooooof Wooooof Woooof. Wof wooof wf woooof, wof;

very loath to leave, for good, a ship bound on so long and perilous a
woof wooof wf wooof, wof woof, w woof wooof wf wf woof wof woooooof w

voyage--beyond both stormy Capes; a ship in which some thousands of
woooof--woooof woof woooof Wooof; w woof wf wooof woof wooooooof wf

his hard earned dollars were invested; a ship, in which an old shipmate
wof woof woooof wooooof woof woooooof; w woof, wf wooof wf wof woooooof

sailed as captain; a man almost as old as he, once more starting to
woooof wf wooooof; w wof woooof wf wof wf wf, woof woof woooooof wf

encounter all the terrors of the pitiless jaw; loath to say good-bye to
wooooooof wof wof wooooof wf wof woooooof wof; wooof wf wof woof-wof wf

a thing so every way brimful of every interest to him,--poor old Bildad
w wooof wf wooof wof wooooof wf wooof woooooof wf wof,--woof wof Woooof

lingered long; paced the deck with anxious strides; ran down into the
woooooof woof; wooof wof woof woof wooooof wooooof; wof woof woof wof

cabin to speak another farewell word there; again came on deck, and
wooof wf wooof wooooof woooooof woof wooof; wooof woof wf woof, wof

looked to windward; looked towards the wide and endless waters, only
woooof wf woooooof; woooof wooooof wof woof wof wooooof woooof, woof

bounded by the far-off unseen Eastern Continents; looked towards
wooooof wf wof wof-wof woooof Wooooof Woooooooof; woooof wooooof

the land; looked aloft; looked right and left; looked everywhere
wof woof; woooof wooof; woooof wooof wof woof; woooof woooooooof

and nowhere; and at last, mechanically coiling a rope upon its pin,
wof wooooof; wof wf woof, woooooooooof wooooof w woof woof wof wof,

convulsively grasped stout Peleg by the hand, and holding up a lantern,
woooooooooof wooooof wooof Wooof wf wof woof, wof wooooof wf w wooooof,

for a moment stood gazing heroically in his face, as much as to say,
wof w woooof wooof woooof woooooooof wf wof woof, wf woof wf wf wof,

"Nevertheless, friend Peleg, I can stand it; yes, I can."
"Woooooooooof, woooof Wooof, W wof wooof wf; wof, W wof."




As for Peleg himself, he took it more like a philosopher; but for all
Wf wof Wooof wooooof, wf woof wf woof woof w wooooooooof; wof wof wof

his philosophy, there was a tear twinkling in his eye, when the lantern
wof woooooooof, wooof wof w woof wooooooof wf wof wof, woof wof wooooof

came too near. And he, too, did not a little run from cabin to deck--now
woof wof woof. Wof wf, wof, wof wof w woooof wof woof wooof wf woof--wof

a word below, and now a word with Starbuck, the chief mate.
w woof wooof, wof wof w woof woof Woooooof, wof wooof woof.




But, at last, he turned to his comrade, with a final sort of look
Wof, wf woof, wf woooof wf wof wooooof, woof w wooof woof wf woof

about him,--"Captain Bildad--come, old shipmate, we must go. Back the
wooof wof,--"Wooooof Woooof--woof, wof woooooof, wf woof wf. Woof wof

main-yard there! Boat ahoy! Stand by to come close alongside, now!
woof-woof wooof! Woof woof! Wooof wf wf woof wooof wooooooof, wof!

Careful, careful!--come, Bildad, boy--say your last. Luck to ye,
Wooooof, wooooof!--woof, Woooof, wof--wof woof woof. Woof wf wf,

Starbuck--luck to ye, Mr. Stubb--luck to ye, Mr. Flask--good-bye and
Woooooof--woof wf wf, Wf. Wooof--woof wf wf, Wf. Wooof--woof-wof wof

good luck to ye all--and this day three years I'll have a hot supper
woof woof wf wf wof--wof woof wof wooof wooof W'wf woof w wof woooof

smoking for ye in old Nantucket. Hurrah and away!"
wooooof wof wf wf wof Wooooooof. Woooof wof woof!"




"God bless ye, and have ye in His holy keeping, men," murmured old
"Wof wooof wf, wof woof wf wf Wof woof wooooof, wof," woooooof wof

Bildad, almost incoherently. "I hope ye'll have fine weather now, so
Woooof, woooof woooooooooof. "W woof wf'wf woof woof wooooof wof, wf

that Captain Ahab may soon be moving among ye--a pleasant sun is all
woof Wooooof Woof wof woof wf woooof wooof wf--w woooooof wof wf wof

he needs, and ye'll have plenty of them in the tropic voyage ye go.
wf wooof, wof wf'wf woof woooof wf woof wf wof woooof woooof wf wf.

Be careful in the hunt, ye mates. Don't stave the boats needlessly,
Wf wooooof wf wof woof, wf wooof. Wof'w wooof wof wooof woooooooof,

ye harpooneers; good white cedar plank is raised full three per cent.
wf wooooooooof; woof wooof wooof wooof wf woooof woof wooof wof woof.

within the year. Don't forget your prayers, either. Mr. Starbuck, mind
woooof wof woof. Wof'w woooof woof wooooof, woooof. Wf. Woooooof, woof

that cooper don't waste the spare staves. Oh! the sail-needles are in
woof woooof wof'w wooof wof wooof woooof. Wf! wof woof-wooooof wof wf

the green locker! Don't whale it too much a' Lord's days, men; but don't
wof wooof woooof! Wof'w wooof wf wof woof w' Woof'w woof, wof; wof wof'w

miss a fair chance either, that's rejecting Heaven's good gifts. Have an
woof w woof woooof woooof, woof'w wooooooof Woooof'w woof wooof. Woof wf

eye to the molasses tierce, Mr. Stubb; it was a little leaky, I thought.
wof wf wof woooooof woooof, Wf. Wooof; wf wof w woooof wooof, W wooooof.

If ye touch at the islands, Mr. Flask, beware of fornication. Good-bye,
Wf wf wooof wf wof wooooof, Wf. Wooof, woooof wf wooooooooof. Woof-wof,

good-bye! Don't keep that cheese too long down in the hold, Mr.
woof-wof! Wof'w woof woof woooof wof woof woof wf wof woof, Wf.

Starbuck; it'll spoil. Be careful with the butter--twenty cents the
Woooooof; wf'wf wooof. Wf wooooof woof wof woooof--woooof wooof wof

pound it was, and mind ye, if--"
wooof wf wof, wof woof wf, wf--"




"Come, come, Captain Bildad; stop palavering,--away!" and with that,
"Woof, woof, Wooooof Woooof; woof woooooooof,--woof!" wof woof woof,

Peleg hurried him over the side, and both dropt into the boat.
Wooof wooooof wof woof wof woof, wof woof wooof woof wof woof.




Ship and boat diverged; the cold, damp night breeze blew between; a
Woof wof woof woooooof; wof woof, woof wooof woooof woof wooooof; w

screaming gull flew overhead; the two hulls wildly rolled; we gave
wooooooof woof woof woooooof; wof wof wooof woooof woooof; wf woof

three heavy-hearted cheers, and blindly plunged like fate into the lone
wooof wooof-wooooof woooof, wof wooooof wooooof woof woof woof wof woof

Atlantic.
Woooooof.










CHAPTER 23. The Lee Shore.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Wof Wooof.







Some chapters back, one Bulkington was spoken of, a tall, newlanded
Woof woooooof woof, wof Woooooooof wof woooof wf, w woof, wooooooof

mariner, encountered in New Bedford at the inn.
wooooof, wooooooooof wf Wof Wooooof wf wof wof.




When on that shivering winter's night, the Pequod thrust her vindictive
Woof wf woof wooooooof woooof'w wooof, wof Woooof woooof wof woooooooof

bows into the cold malicious waves, who should I see standing at her
woof woof wof woof wooooooof wooof, wof woooof W wof woooooof wf wof

helm but Bulkington! I looked with sympathetic awe and fearfulness upon
woof wof Woooooooof! W woooof woof wooooooooof wof wof wooooooooof woof

the man, who in mid-winter just landed from a four years' dangerous
wof wof, wof wf wof-woooof woof woooof woof w woof wooof' wooooooof

voyage, could so unrestingly push off again for still another
woooof, wooof wf wooooooooof woof wof wooof wof wooof wooooof

tempestuous term. The land seemed scorching to his feet. Wonderfullest
wooooooooof woof. Wof woof woooof wooooooof wf wof woof. Wooooooooooof

things are ever the unmentionable; deep memories yield no epitaphs; this
woooof wof woof wof wooooooooooof; woof woooooof wooof wf woooooof; woof

six-inch chapter is the stoneless grave of Bulkington. Let me only say
wof-woof wooooof wf wof wooooooof wooof wf Woooooooof. Wof wf woof wof

that it fared with him as with the storm-tossed ship, that miserably
woof wf wooof woof wof wf woof wof wooof-woooof woof, woof wooooooof

drives along the leeward land. The port would fain give succor; the port
woooof wooof wof wooooof woof. Wof woof wooof woof woof woooof; wof woof

is pitiful; in the port is safety, comfort, hearthstone, supper, warm
wf wooooof; wf wof woof wf woooof, wooooof, wooooooooof, woooof, woof

blankets, friends, all that's kind to our mortalities. But in that gale,
woooooof, wooooof, wof woof'w woof wf wof wooooooooof. Wof wf woof woof,

the port, the land, is that ship's direst jeopardy; she must fly all
wof woof, wof woof, wf woof woof'w woooof woooooof; wof woof wof wof

hospitality; one touch of land, though it but graze the keel, would make
wooooooooof; wof wooof wf woof, woooof wf wof wooof wof woof, wooof woof

her shudder through and through. With all her might she crowds all sail
wof wooooof wooooof wof wooooof. Woof wof wof wooof wof woooof wof woof

off shore; in so doing, fights 'gainst the very winds that fain would
wof wooof; wf wf wooof, woooof 'woooof wof woof wooof woof woof wooof

blow her homeward; seeks all the lashed sea's landlessness again;
woof wof woooooof; wooof wof wof woooof wof'w woooooooooof wooof;

for refuge's sake forlornly rushing into peril; her only friend her
wof woooof'w woof wooooooof wooooof woof wooof; wof woof woooof wof

bitterest foe!
wooooooof wof!




Know ye now, Bulkington? Glimpses do ye seem to see of that mortally
Woof wf wof, Woooooooof? Woooooof wf wf woof wf wof wf woof woooooof

intolerable truth; that all deep, earnest thinking is but the intrepid
wooooooooof wooof; woof wof woof, wooooof woooooof wf wof wof woooooof

effort of the soul to keep the open independence of her sea; while
woooof wf wof woof wf woof wof woof woooooooooof wf wof wof; wooof

the wildest winds of heaven and earth conspire to cast her on the
wof wooooof wooof wf woooof wof wooof woooooof wf woof wof wf wof

treacherous, slavish shore?
wooooooooof, wooooof wooof?




But as in landlessness alone resides highest truth, shoreless,
Wof wf wf woooooooooof wooof wooooof wooooof wooof, wooooooof,

indefinite as God--so, better is it to perish in that howling infinite,
woooooooof wf Wof--wf, woooof wf wf wf woooof wf woof wooooof woooooof,

than be ingloriously dashed upon the lee, even if that were safety!
woof wf woooooooooof woooof woof wof wof, woof wf woof woof woooof!

For worm-like, then, oh! who would craven crawl to land! Terrors of
Wof woof-woof, woof, wf! wof wooof woooof wooof wf woof! Wooooof wf

the terrible! is all this agony so vain? Take heart, take heart,
wof woooooof! wf wof woof wooof wf woof? Woof wooof, woof wooof,

O Bulkington! Bear thee grimly, demigod! Up from the spray of thy
W Woooooooof! Woof woof woooof, wooooof! Wf woof wof wooof wf wof

ocean-perishing--straight up, leaps thy apotheosis!
wooof-wooooooof--woooooof wf, wooof wof woooooooof!










CHAPTER 24. The Advocate.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Woooooof.







As Queequeg and I are now fairly embarked in this business of whaling;
Wf Woooooof wof W wof wof woooof woooooof wf woof woooooof wf wooooof;

and as this business of whaling has somehow come to be regarded among
wof wf woof woooooof wf wooooof wof wooooof woof wf wf woooooof wooof

landsmen as a rather unpoetical and disreputable pursuit; therefore, I
woooooof wf w woooof woooooooof wof woooooooooof wooooof; wooooooof, W

am all anxiety to convince ye, ye landsmen, of the injustice hereby done
wf wof wooooof wf woooooof wf, wf woooooof, wf wof wooooooof woooof woof

to us hunters of whales.
wf wf wooooof wf woooof.




In the first place, it may be deemed almost superfluous to establish
Wf wof wooof wooof, wf wof wf woooof woooof wooooooooof wf wooooooof

the fact, that among people at large, the business of whaling is not
wof woof, woof wooof woooof wf wooof, wof woooooof wf wooooof wf wof

accounted on a level with what are called the liberal professions. If a
wooooooof wf w wooof woof woof wof woooof wof wooooof wooooooooof. Wf w

stranger were introduced into any miscellaneous metropolitan society,
woooooof woof woooooooof woof wof wooooooooooof woooooooooof wooooof,

it would but slightly advance the general opinion of his merits, were
wf wooof wof woooooof wooooof wof wooooof wooooof wf wof woooof, woof

he presented to the company as a harpooneer, say; and if in emulation
wf wooooooof wf wof wooooof wf w woooooooof, wof; wof wf wf wooooooof

of the naval officers he should append the initials S.W.F. (Sperm
wf wof wooof woooooof wf woooof woooof wof woooooof W.W.W. (Wooof

Whale Fishery) to his visiting card, such a procedure would be deemed
Wooof Wooooof) wf wof woooooof woof, woof w wooooooof wooof wf woooof

pre-eminently presuming and ridiculous.
wof-wooooooof wooooooof wof woooooooof.




Doubtless one leading reason why the world declines honouring us
Wooooooof wof wooooof woooof wof wof wooof woooooof wooooooof wf

whalemen, is this: they think that, at best, our vocation amounts to a
woooooof, wf woof: woof wooof woof, wf woof, wof woooooof wooooof wf w

butchering sort of business; and that when actively engaged therein, we
woooooooof woof wf woooooof; wof woof woof woooooof wooooof wooooof, wf

are surrounded by all manner of defilements. Butchers we are, that is
wof woooooooof wf wof woooof wf wooooooooof. Woooooof wf wof, woof wf

true. But butchers, also, and butchers of the bloodiest badge have been
woof. Wof woooooof, woof, wof woooooof wf wof wooooooof wooof woof woof

all Martial Commanders whom the world invariably delights to honour. And
wof Wooooof Woooooooof woof wof wooof woooooooof woooooof wf woooof. Wof

as for the matter of the alleged uncleanliness of our business, ye shall
wf wof wof woooof wf wof wooooof wooooooooooof wf wof woooooof, wf wooof

soon be initiated into certain facts hitherto pretty generally unknown,
woof wf wooooooof woof wooooof wooof woooooof woooof wooooooof wooooof,

and which, upon the whole, will triumphantly plant the sperm whale-ship
wof wooof, woof wof wooof, woof woooooooooof wooof wof wooof wooof-woof

at least among the cleanliest things of this tidy earth. But even
wf wooof wooof wof woooooooof woooof wf woof woof wooof. Wof woof

granting the charge in question to be true; what disordered slippery
woooooof wof woooof wf woooooof wf wf woof; woof woooooooof woooooof

decks of a whale-ship are comparable to the unspeakable carrion of those
wooof wf w wooof-woof wof woooooooof wf wof wooooooooof wooooof wf wooof

battle-fields from which so many soldiers return to drink in all ladies'
woooof-woooof woof wooof wf woof woooooof woooof wf wooof wf wof woooof'

plaudits? And if the idea of peril so much enhances the popular conceit
woooooof? Wof wf wof woof wf wooof wf woof woooooof wof wooooof wooooof

of the soldier's profession; let me assure ye that many a veteran
wf wof wooooof'w woooooooof; wof wf woooof wf woof woof w wooooof

who has freely marched up to a battery, would quickly recoil at the
wof wof woooof wooooof wf wf w wooooof, wooof wooooof woooof wf wof

apparition of the sperm whale's vast tail, fanning into eddies the air
woooooooof wf wof wooof wooof'w woof woof, wooooof woof woooof wof wof

over his head. For what are the comprehensible terrors of man compared
woof wof woof. Wof woof wof wof woooooooooooof wooooof wf wof woooooof

with the interlinked terrors and wonders of God!
woof wof wooooooooof wooooof wof wooooof wf Wof!




But, though the world scouts at us whale hunters, yet does it
Wof, woooof wof wooof woooof wf wf wooof wooooof, wof woof wf

unwittingly pay us the profoundest homage; yea, an all-abounding
wooooooooof wof wf wof wooooooooof woooof; wof, wf wof-wooooooof

adoration! for almost all the tapers, lamps, and candles that burn round
wooooooof! wof woooof wof wof woooof, wooof, wof wooooof woof woof wooof

the globe, burn, as before so many shrines, to our glory!
wof wooof, woof, wf woooof wf woof wooooof, wf wof wooof!




But look at this matter in other lights; weigh it in all sorts of
Wof woof wf woof woooof wf wooof woooof; wooof wf wf wof wooof wf

scales; see what we whalemen are, and have been.
woooof; wof woof wf woooooof wof, wof woof woof.




Why did the Dutch in De Witt's time have admirals of their whaling
Wof wof wof Wooof wf Wf Woof'w woof woof woooooof wf wooof wooooof

fleets? Why did Louis XVI. of France, at his own personal expense, fit
woooof? Wof wof Wooof WOF. wf Woooof, wf wof wof woooooof wooooof, wof

out whaling ships from Dunkirk, and politely invite to that town some
wof wooooof wooof woof Wooooof, wof woooooof woooof wf woof woof woof

score or two of families from our own island of Nantucket? Why did
wooof wf wof wf woooooof woof wof wof woooof wf Wooooooof? Wof wof

Britain between the years 1750 and 1788 pay to her whalemen in bounties
Wooooof wooooof wof wooof woof wof woof wof wf wof woooooof wf woooooof

upwards of L1,000,000? And lastly, how comes it that we whalemen of
wooooof wf WF,wof,wof? Wof woooof, wof wooof wf woof wf woooooof wf

America now outnumber all the rest of the banded whalemen in the world;
Wooooof wof wooooooof wof wof woof wf wof woooof woooooof wf wof wooof;

sail a navy of upwards of seven hundred vessels; manned by eighteen
woof w woof wf wooooof wf wooof wooooof wooooof; woooof wf woooooof

thousand men; yearly consuming 4,000,000 of dollars; the ships worth,
woooooof wof; woooof wooooooof w,wof,wof wf wooooof; wof wooof wooof,

at the time of sailing, $20,000,000! and every year importing into our
wf wof woof wf wooooof, $wf,wof,wof! wof wooof woof wooooooof woof wof

harbors a well reaped harvest of $7,000,000. How comes all this, if
wooooof w woof woooof wooooof wf $w,wof,wof. Wof wooof wof woof, wf

there be not something puissant in whaling?
wooof wf wof wooooooof woooooof wf wooooof?




But this is not the half; look again.
Wof woof wf wof wof woof; woof wooof.




I freely assert, that the cosmopolite philosopher cannot, for his life,
W woooof woooof, woof wof wooooooooof wooooooooof woooof, wof wof woof,

point out one single peaceful influence, which within the last sixty
wooof wof wof woooof woooooof wooooooof, wooof woooof wof woof wooof

years has operated more potentially upon the whole broad world, taken in
wooof wof woooooof woof wooooooooof woof wof wooof wooof wooof, wooof wf

one aggregate, than the high and mighty business of whaling. One way
wof wooooooof, woof wof woof wof woooof woooooof wf wooooof. Wof wof

and another, it has begotten events so remarkable in themselves, and so
wof wooooof, wf wof woooooof woooof wf woooooooof wf woooooooof, wof wf

continuously momentous in their sequential issues, that whaling may
woooooooooof wooooooof wf wooof woooooooof woooof, woof wooooof wof

well be regarded as that Egyptian mother, who bore offspring themselves
woof wf woooooof wf woof Woooooof woooof, wof woof wooooooof woooooooof

pregnant from her womb. It would be a hopeless, endless task to
woooooof woof wof woof. Wf wooof wf w woooooof, wooooof woof wf

catalogue all these things. Let a handful suffice. For many years past
wooooooof wof wooof woooof. Wof w wooooof wooooof. Wof woof wooof woof

the whale-ship has been the pioneer in ferreting out the remotest and
wof wooof-woof wof woof wof wooooof wf wooooooof wof wof woooooof wof

least known parts of the earth. She has explored seas and archipelagoes
wooof wooof wooof wf wof wooof. Wof wof woooooof woof wof wooooooooooof

which had no chart, where no Cook or Vancouver had ever sailed. If
wooof wof wf wooof, wooof wf Woof wf Wooooooof wof woof woooof. Wf

American and European men-of-war now peacefully ride in once savage
Woooooof wof Woooooof wof-wf-wof wof woooooooof woof wf woof woooof

harbors, let them fire salutes to the honour and glory of the
wooooof, wof woof woof wooooof wf wof woooof wof wooof wf wof

whale-ship, which originally showed them the way, and first interpreted
wooof-woof, wooof woooooooof woooof woof wof wof, wof wooof wooooooooof

between them and the savages. They may celebrate as they will the heroes
wooooof woof wof wof wooooof. Woof wof wooooooof wf woof woof wof woooof

of Exploring Expeditions, your Cooks, your Krusensterns; but I say that
wf Wooooooof Wooooooooof, woof Wooof, woof Woooooooooof; wof W wof woof

scores of anonymous Captains have sailed out of Nantucket, that were
woooof wf wooooooof Woooooof woof woooof wof wf Wooooooof, woof woof

as great, and greater than your Cook and your Krusenstern. For in their
wf wooof, wof wooooof woof woof Woof wof woof Wooooooooof. Wof wf wooof

succourless empty-handedness, they, in the heathenish sharked waters,
wooooooooof wooof-woooooooof, woof, wf wof woooooooof wooooof woooof,

and by the beaches of unrecorded, javelin islands, battled with virgin
wof wf wof wooooof wf woooooooof, wooooof wooooof, wooooof woof woooof

wonders and terrors that Cook with all his marines and muskets would
wooooof wof wooooof woof Woof woof wof wof wooooof wof wooooof wooof

not willingly have dared. All that is made such a flourish of in the old
wof wooooooof woof wooof. Wof woof wf woof woof w woooooof wf wf wof wof

South Sea Voyages, those things were but the life-time commonplaces of
Wooof Wof Wooooof, wooof woooof woof wof wof woof-woof woooooooooof wf

our heroic Nantucketers. Often, adventures which Vancouver dedicates
wof woooof Woooooooooof. Wooof, woooooooof wooof Wooooooof wooooooof

three chapters to, these men accounted unworthy of being set down in the
wooof woooooof wf, wooof wof wooooooof woooooof wf wooof wof woof wf wof

ship's common log. Ah, the world! Oh, the world!
woof'w woooof wof. Wf, wof wooof! Wf, wof wooof!




Until the whale fishery rounded Cape Horn, no commerce but colonial,
Wooof wof wooof wooooof wooooof Woof Woof, wf woooooof wof woooooof,

scarcely any intercourse but colonial, was carried on between Europe and
woooooof wof wooooooooof wof woooooof, wof wooooof wf wooooof Woooof wof

the long line of the opulent Spanish provinces on the Pacific coast.
wof woof woof wf wof wooooof Wooooof wooooooof wf wof Wooooof wooof.

It was the whaleman who first broke through the jealous policy of the
Wf wof wof woooooof wof wooof wooof wooooof wof wooooof woooof wf wof

Spanish crown, touching those colonies; and, if space permitted, it
Wooooof wooof, woooooof wooof woooooof; wof, wf wooof wooooooof, wf

might be distinctly shown how from those whalemen at last eventuated the
wooof wf woooooooof wooof wof woof wooof woooooof wf woof woooooooof wof

liberation of Peru, Chili, and Bolivia from the yoke of Old Spain, and
woooooooof wf Woof, Wooof, wof Wooooof woof wof woof wf Wof Wooof, wof

the establishment of the eternal democracy in those parts.
wof wooooooooooof wf wof wooooof wooooooof wf wooof wooof.




That great America on the other side of the sphere, Australia, was given
Woof wooof Wooooof wf wof wooof woof wf wof woooof, Wooooooof, wof wooof

to the enlightened world by the whaleman. After its first blunder-born
wf wof wooooooooof wooof wf wof woooooof. Wooof wof wooof wooooof-woof

discovery by a Dutchman, all other ships long shunned those shores
wooooooof wf w Woooooof, wof wooof wooof woof wooooof wooof woooof

as pestiferously barbarous; but the whale-ship touched there. The
wf wooooooooooof wooooooof; wof wof wooof-woof wooooof wooof. Wof

whale-ship is the true mother of that now mighty colony. Moreover,
wooof-woof wf wof woof woooof wf woof wof woooof woooof. Woooooof,

in the infancy of the first Australian settlement, the emigrants were
wf wof wooooof wf wof wooof Woooooooof woooooooof, wof wooooooof woof

several times saved from starvation by the benevolent biscuit of the
wooooof wooof wooof woof woooooooof wf wof woooooooof wooooof wf wof

whale-ship luckily dropping an anchor in their waters. The uncounted
wooof-woof wooooof woooooof wf woooof wf wooof woooof. Wof wooooooof

isles of all Polynesia confess the same truth, and do commercial homage
wooof wf wof Wooooooof wooooof wof woof wooof, wof wf woooooooof woooof

to the whale-ship, that cleared the way for the missionary and the
wf wof wooof-woof, woof wooooof wof wof wof wof woooooooof wof wof

merchant, and in many cases carried the primitive missionaries to their
woooooof, wof wf woof wooof wooooof wof wooooooof woooooooooof wf wooof

first destinations. If that double-bolted land, Japan, is ever to become
wooof woooooooooof. Wf woof woooof-woooof woof, Wooof, wf woof wf woooof

hospitable, it is the whale-ship alone to whom the credit will be due;
woooooooof, wf wf wof wooof-woof wooof wf woof wof woooof woof wf wof;

for already she is on the threshold.
wof wooooof wof wf wf wof wooooooof.




But if, in the face of all this, you still declare that whaling has no
Wof wf, wf wof woof wf wof woof, wof wooof wooooof woof wooooof wof wf

aesthetically noble associations connected with it, then am I ready to
wooooooooooof wooof woooooooooof wooooooof woof wf, woof wf W wooof wf

shiver fifty lances with you there, and unhorse you with a split helmet
woooof wooof woooof woof wof wooof, wof wooooof wof woof w wooof woooof

every time.
wooof woof.




The whale has no famous author, and whaling no famous chronicler, you
Wof wooof wof wf woooof woooof, wof wooooof wf woooof woooooooof, wof

will say.
woof wof.




THE WHALE NO FAMOUS AUTHOR, AND WHALING NO FAMOUS CHRONICLER? Who wrote
WOF WOOOF WF WOOOOF WOOOOF, WOF WOOOOOF WF WOOOOF WOOOOOOOOF? Wof wooof

the first account of our Leviathan? Who but mighty Job! And who composed
wof wooof wooooof wf wof Wooooooof? Wof wof woooof Wof! Wof wof woooooof

the first narrative of a whaling-voyage? Who, but no less a prince than
wof wooof wooooooof wf w wooooof-woooof? Wof, wof wf woof w woooof woof

Alfred the Great, who, with his own royal pen, took down the words from
Woooof wof Wooof, wof, woof wof wof wooof wof, woof woof wof wooof woof

Other, the Norwegian whale-hunter of those times! And who pronounced our
Wooof, wof Wooooooof wooof-woooof wf wooof wooof! Wof wof woooooooof wof

glowing eulogy in Parliament? Who, but Edmund Burke!
wooooof woooof wf Woooooooof? Wof, wof Woooof Wooof!




True enough, but then whalemen themselves are poor devils; they have no
Woof woooof, wof woof woooooof woooooooof wof woof woooof; woof woof wf

good blood in their veins.
woof wooof wf wooof wooof.




NO GOOD BLOOD IN THEIR VEINS? They have something better than royal
WF WOOF WOOOF WF WOOOF WOOOF? Woof woof wooooooof woooof woof wooof

blood there. The grandmother of Benjamin Franklin was Mary Morrel;
wooof wooof. Wof wooooooooof wf Woooooof Woooooof wof Woof Woooof;

afterwards, by marriage, Mary Folger, one of the old settlers
woooooooof, wf woooooof, Woof Woooof, wof wf wof wof woooooof

of Nantucket, and the ancestress to a long line of Folgers and
wf Wooooooof, wof wof woooooooof wf w woof woof wf Wooooof wof

harpooneers--all kith and kin to noble Benjamin--this day darting the
wooooooooof--wof woof wof wof wf wooof Woooooof--woof wof wooooof wof

barbed iron from one side of the world to the other.
woooof woof woof wof woof wf wof wooof wf wof wooof.




Good again; but then all confess that somehow whaling is not
Woof wooof; wof woof wof wooooof woof wooooof wooooof wf wof

respectable.
wooooooooof.




WHALING NOT RESPECTABLE? Whaling is imperial! By old English statutory
WOOOOOF WOF WOOOOOOOOOF? Wooooof wf woooooof! Wf wof Wooooof wooooooof

law, the whale is declared "a royal fish."*
wof, wof wooof wf woooooof "w wooof woof."*




Oh, that's only nominal! The whale himself has never figured in any
Wf, woof'w woof wooooof! Wof wooof wooooof wof wooof wooooof wf wof

grand imposing way.
wooof woooooof wof.




THE WHALE NEVER FIGURED IN ANY GRAND IMPOSING WAY? In one of the mighty
WOF WOOOF WOOOF WOOOOOF WF WOF WOOOF WOOOOOOF WOF? Wf wof wf wof woooof

triumphs given to a Roman general upon his entering the world's capital,
woooooof wooof wf w Wooof wooooof woof wof woooooof wof wooof'w wooooof,

the bones of a whale, brought all the way from the Syrian coast, were
wof wooof wf w wooof, wooooof wof wof wof woof wof Woooof wooof, woof

the most conspicuous object in the cymballed procession.*
wof woof wooooooooof woooof wf wof wooooooof woooooooof.*







*See subsequent chapters for something more on this head.
*Wof woooooooof woooooof wof wooooooof woof wf woof woof.







Grant it, since you cite it; but, say what you will, there is no real
Wooof wf, wooof wof woof wf; wof, wof woof wof woof, wooof wf wf woof

dignity in whaling.
wooooof wf wooooof.




NO DIGNITY IN WHALING? The dignity of our calling the very heavens
WF WOOOOOF WF WOOOOOF? Wof wooooof wf wof wooooof wof woof wooooof

attest. Cetus is a constellation in the South! No more! Drive down your
woooof. Wooof wf w wooooooooooof wf wof Wooof! Wf woof! Wooof woof woof

hat in presence of the Czar, and take it off to Queequeg! No more! I
wof wf woooooof wf wof Woof, wof woof wf wof wf Woooooof! Wf woof! W

know a man that, in his lifetime, has taken three hundred and fifty
woof w wof woof, wf wof woooooof, wof wooof wooof wooooof wof wooof

whales. I account that man more honourable than that great captain of
woooof. W wooooof woof wof woof woooooooof woof woof wooof wooooof wf

antiquity who boasted of taking as many walled towns.
wooooooof wof wooooof wf woooof wf woof woooof wooof.




And, as for me, if, by any possibility, there be any as yet undiscovered
Wof, wf wof wf, wf, wf wof wooooooooof, wooof wf wof wf wof woooooooooof

prime thing in me; if I shall ever deserve any real repute in that small
wooof wooof wf wf; wf W wooof woof wooooof wof woof woooof wf woof wooof

but high hushed world which I might not be unreasonably ambitious of; if
wof woof woooof wooof wooof W wooof wof wf woooooooooof wooooooof wf; wf

hereafter I shall do anything that, upon the whole, a man might rather
wooooooof W wooof wf woooooof woof, woof wof wooof, w wof wooof woooof

have done than to have left undone; if, at my death, my executors, or
woof woof woof wf woof woof woooof; wf, wf wf wooof, wf wooooooof, wf

more properly my creditors, find any precious MSS. in my desk, then here
woof woooooof wf wooooooof, woof wof woooooof WOF. wf wf woof, woof woof

I prospectively ascribe all the honour and the glory to whaling; for a
W wooooooooooof wooooof wof wof woooof wof wof wooof wf wooooof; wof w

whale-ship was my Yale College and my Harvard.
wooof-woof wof wf Woof Wooooof wof wf Wooooof.










CHAPTER 25. Postscript.
WOOOOOF wf. Woooooooof.







In behalf of the dignity of whaling, I would fain advance naught but
Wf woooof wf wof wooooof wf wooooof, W wooof woof wooooof woooof wof

substantiated facts. But after embattling his facts, an advocate who
wooooooooooof wooof. Wof wooof woooooooof wof wooof, wf woooooof wof

should wholly suppress a not unreasonable surmise, which might
woooof woooof woooooof w wof woooooooooof wooooof, wooof wooof

tell eloquently upon his cause--such an advocate, would he not be
woof woooooooof woof wof wooof--woof wf woooooof, wooof wf wof wf

blameworthy?
wooooooooof?




It is well known that at the coronation of kings and queens, even modern
Wf wf woof wooof woof wf wof woooooooof wf wooof wof woooof, woof woooof

ones, a certain curious process of seasoning them for their functions is
woof, w wooooof wooooof wooooof wf wooooooof woof wof wooof wooooooof wf

gone through. There is a saltcellar of state, so called, and there
woof wooooof. Wooof wf w woooooooof wf wooof, wf woooof, wof wooof

may be a castor of state. How they use the salt, precisely--who knows?
wof wf w woooof wf wooof. Wof woof wof wof woof, wooooooof--wof wooof?

Certain I am, however, that a king's head is solemnly oiled at his
Wooooof W wf, wooooof, woof w woof'w woof wf woooooof wooof wf wof

coronation, even as a head of salad. Can it be, though, that they
woooooooof, woof wf w woof wf wooof. Wof wf wf, woooof, woof woof

anoint it with a view of making its interior run well, as they anoint
woooof wf woof w woof wf woooof wof woooooof wof woof, wf woof woooof

machinery? Much might be ruminated here, concerning the essential
wooooooof? Woof wooof wf wooooooof woof, woooooooof wof wooooooof

dignity of this regal process, because in common life we esteem but
wooooof wf woof wooof wooooof, wooooof wf woooof woof wf woooof wof

meanly and contemptibly a fellow who anoints his hair, and palpably
woooof wof woooooooooof w woooof wof wooooof wof woof, wof woooooof

smells of that anointing. In truth, a mature man who uses hair-oil,
woooof wf woof wooooooof. Wf wooof, w woooof wof wof woof woof-wof,

unless medicinally, that man has probably got a quoggy spot in him
woooof wooooooooof, woof wof wof woooooof wof w woooof woof wf wof

somewhere. As a general rule, he can't amount to much in his totality.
wooooooof. Wf w wooooof woof, wf wof'w woooof wf woof wf wof woooooof.




But the only thing to be considered here, is this--what kind of oil is
Wof wof woof wooof wf wf woooooooof woof, wf woof--woof woof wf wof wf

used at coronations? Certainly it cannot be olive oil, nor macassar oil,
woof wf wooooooooof? Wooooooof wf woooof wf wooof wof, wof woooooof wof,

nor castor oil, nor bear's oil, nor train oil, nor cod-liver oil. What
wof woooof wof, wof woof'w wof, wof wooof wof, wof wof-wooof wof. Woof

then can it possibly be, but sperm oil in its unmanufactured, unpolluted
woof wof wf woooooof wf, wof wooof wof wf wof woooooooooooof, woooooooof

state, the sweetest of all oils?
wooof, wof woooooof wf wof woof?




Think of that, ye loyal Britons! we whalemen supply your kings and
Wooof wf woof, wf wooof Wooooof! wf woooooof woooof woof wooof wof

queens with coronation stuff!
woooof woof woooooooof wooof!










CHAPTER 26. Knights and Squires.
WOOOOOF wf. Wooooof wof Wooooof.







The chief mate of the Pequod was Starbuck, a native of Nantucket, and a
Wof wooof woof wf wof Woooof wof Woooooof, w woooof wf Wooooooof, wof w

Quaker by descent. He was a long, earnest man, and though born on an icy
Woooof wf wooooof. Wf wof w woof, wooooof wof, wof woooof woof wf wf wof

coast, seemed well adapted to endure hot latitudes, his flesh being hard
wooof, woooof woof wooooof wf woooof wof wooooooof, wof wooof wooof woof

as twice-baked biscuit. Transported to the Indies, his live blood would
wf wooof-wooof wooooof. Wooooooooof wf wof Woooof, wof woof wooof wooof

not spoil like bottled ale. He must have been born in some time of
wof wooof woof wooooof wof. Wf woof woof woof woof wf woof woof wf

general drought and famine, or upon one of those fast days for which
wooooof wooooof wof woooof, wf woof wof wf wooof woof woof wof wooof

his state is famous. Only some thirty arid summers had he seen; those
wof wooof wf woooof. Woof woof woooof woof wooooof wof wf woof; wooof

summers had dried up all his physical superfluousness. But this, his
wooooof wof wooof wf wof wof woooooof wooooooooooooof. Wof woof, wof

thinness, so to speak, seemed no more the token of wasting anxieties and
woooooof, wf wf wooof, woooof wf woof wof wooof wf wooooof wooooooof wof

cares, than it seemed the indication of any bodily blight. It was merely
wooof, woof wf woooof wof woooooooof wf wof woooof woooof. Wf wof woooof

the condensation of the man. He was by no means ill-looking; quite the
wof woooooooooof wf wof wof. Wf wof wf wf wooof wof-wooooof; wooof wof

contrary. His pure tight skin was an excellent fit; and closely wrapped
woooooof. Wof woof wooof woof wof wf wooooooof wof; wof wooooof wooooof

up in it, and embalmed with inner health and strength, like a revivified
wf wf wf, wof woooooof woof wooof woooof wof woooooof, woof w woooooooof

Egyptian, this Starbuck seemed prepared to endure for long ages to come,
Woooooof, woof Woooooof woooof woooooof wf woooof wof woof woof wf woof,

and to endure always, as now; for be it Polar snow or torrid sun, like
wof wf woooof woooof, wf wof; wof wf wf Wooof woof wf woooof wof, woof

a patent chronometer, his interior vitality was warranted to do well
w woooof wooooooooof, wof woooooof woooooof wof wooooooof wf wf woof

in all climates. Looking into his eyes, you seemed to see there the yet
wf wof woooooof. Wooooof woof wof woof, wof woooof wf wof wooof wof wof

lingering images of those thousand-fold perils he had calmly confronted
wooooooof woooof wf wooof woooooof-woof woooof wf wof woooof woooooooof

through life. A staid, steadfast man, whose life for the most part was a
wooooof woof. W wooof, wooooooof wof, wooof woof wof wof woof woof wof w

telling pantomime of action, and not a tame chapter of sounds. Yet, for
wooooof wooooooof wf woooof, wof wof w woof wooooof wf woooof. Wof, wof

all his hardy sobriety and fortitude, there were certain qualities
wof wof wooof woooooof wof wooooooof, wooof woof wooooof wooooooof

in him which at times affected, and in some cases seemed well nigh to
wf wof wooof wf wooof woooooof, wof wf woof wooof woooof woof woof wf

overbalance all the rest. Uncommonly conscientious for a seaman, and
wooooooooof wof wof woof. Woooooooof wooooooooooof wof w woooof, wof

endued with a deep natural reverence, the wild watery loneliness of his
woooof woof w woof wooooof wooooooof, wof woof woooof woooooooof wf wof

life did therefore strongly incline him to superstition; but to that
woof wof wooooooof woooooof wooooof wof wf woooooooooof; wof wf woof

sort of superstition, which in some organizations seems rather to
woof wf woooooooooof, wooof wf woof wooooooooooof wooof woooof wf

spring, somehow, from intelligence than from ignorance. Outward portents
woooof, wooooof, woof woooooooooof woof woof wooooooof. Wooooof woooooof

and inward presentiments were his. And if at times these things bent the
wof woooof wooooooooooof woof wof. Wof wf wf wooof wooof woooof woof wof

welded iron of his soul, much more did his far-away domestic memories
woooof woof wf wof woof, woof woof wof wof wof-woof woooooof woooooof

of his young Cape wife and child, tend to bend him still more from the
wf wof wooof Woof woof wof wooof, woof wf woof wof wooof woof woof wof

original ruggedness of his nature, and open him still further to those
woooooof woooooooof wf wof woooof, wof woof wof wooof wooooof wf wooof

latent influences which, in some honest-hearted men, restrain the gush
woooof woooooooof wooof, wf woof woooof-wooooof wof, woooooof wof woof

of dare-devil daring, so often evinced by others in the more perilous
wf woof-wooof woooof, wf wooof wooooof wf woooof wf wof woof woooooof

vicissitudes of the fishery. "I will have no man in my boat," said
woooooooooof wf wof wooooof. "W woof woof wf wof wf wf woof," woof

Starbuck, "who is not afraid of a whale." By this, he seemed to mean,
Woooooof, "wof wf wof woooof wf w wooof." Wf woof, wf woooof wf woof,

not only that the most reliable and useful courage was that which arises
wof woof woof wof woof woooooof wof woooof wooooof wof woof wooof woooof

from the fair estimation of the encountered peril, but that an utterly
woof wof woof woooooooof wf wof wooooooooof wooof, wof woof wf wooooof

fearless man is a far more dangerous comrade than a coward.
woooooof wof wf w wof woof wooooooof wooooof woof w woooof.




"Aye, aye," said Stubb, the second mate, "Starbuck, there, is as careful
"Wof, wof," woof Wooof, wof woooof woof, "Woooooof, wooof, wf wf wooooof

a man as you'll find anywhere in this fishery." But we shall ere long
w wof wf wof'wf woof woooooof wf woof wooooof." Wof wf wooof wof woof

see what that word "careful" precisely means when used by a man like
wof woof woof woof "wooooof" wooooooof wooof woof woof wf w wof woof

Stubb, or almost any other whale hunter.
Wooof, wf woooof wof wooof wooof woooof.




Starbuck was no crusader after perils; in him courage was not a
Woooooof wof wf woooooof wooof woooof; wf wof wooooof wof wof w

sentiment; but a thing simply useful to him, and always at hand upon all
wooooooof; wof w wooof woooof woooof wf wof, wof woooof wf woof woof wof

mortally practical occasions. Besides, he thought, perhaps, that in this
woooooof wooooooof wooooooof. Wooooof, wf wooooof, wooooof, woof wf woof

business of whaling, courage was one of the great staple outfits of
woooooof wf wooooof, wooooof wof wof wf wof wooof woooof wooooof wf

the ship, like her beef and her bread, and not to be foolishly wasted.
wof woof, woof wof woof wof wof wooof, wof wof wf wf wooooooof woooof.

Wherefore he had no fancy for lowering for whales after sun-down; nor
Wooooooof wf wof wf wooof wof woooooof wof woooof wooof wof-woof; wof

for persisting in fighting a fish that too much persisted in fighting
wof woooooooof wf woooooof w woof woof wof woof wooooooof wf woooooof

him. For, thought Starbuck, I am here in this critical ocean to kill
wof. Wof, wooooof Woooooof, W wf woof wf woof woooooof wooof wf woof

whales for my living, and not to be killed by them for theirs; and that
woooof wof wf woooof, wof wof wf wf woooof wf woof wof woooof; wof woof

hundreds of men had been so killed Starbuck well knew. What doom was
woooooof wf wof wof woof wf woooof Woooooof woof woof. Woof woof wof

his own father's? Where, in the bottomless deeps, could he find the torn
wof wof woooof'w? Wooof, wf wof woooooooof wooof, wooof wf woof wof woof

limbs of his brother?
wooof wf wof wooooof?




With memories like these in him, and, moreover, given to a certain
Woof woooooof woof wooof wf wof, wof, woooooof, wooof wf w wooooof

superstitiousness, as has been said; the courage of this Starbuck which
wooooooooooooooof, wf wof woof woof; wof wooooof wf woof Woooooof wooof

could, nevertheless, still flourish, must indeed have been extreme. But
wooof, woooooooooof, wooof woooooof, woof woooof woof woof wooooof. Wof

it was not in reasonable nature that a man so organized, and with such
wf wof wof wf woooooooof woooof woof w wof wf wooooooof, wof woof woof

terrible experiences and remembrances as he had; it was not in nature
woooooof wooooooooof wof woooooooooof wf wf wof; wf wof wof wf woooof

that these things should fail in latently engendering an element in
woof wooof woooof woooof woof wf woooooof wooooooooof wf wooooof wf

him, which, under suitable circumstances, would break out from its
wof, wooof, wooof woooooof wooooooooooof, wooof wooof wof woof wof

confinement, and burn all his courage up. And brave as he might be, it
wooooooooof, wof woof wof wof wooooof wf. Wof wooof wf wf wooof wf, wf

was that sort of bravery chiefly, visible in some intrepid men, which,
wof woof woof wf wooooof wooooof, wooooof wf woof woooooof wof, wooof,

while generally abiding firm in the conflict with seas, or winds, or
wooof wooooooof wooooof woof wf wof woooooof woof woof, wf wooof, wf

whales, or any of the ordinary irrational horrors of the world, yet
woooof, wf wof wf wof woooooof woooooooof wooooof wf wof wooof, wof

cannot withstand those more terrific, because more spiritual terrors,
woooof wooooooof wooof woof woooooof, wooooof woof wooooooof wooooof,

which sometimes menace you from the concentrating brow of an enraged and
wooof wooooooof woooof wof woof wof wooooooooooof woof wf wf wooooof wof

mighty man.
woooof wof.




But were the coming narrative to reveal in any instance, the complete
Wof woof wof woooof wooooooof wf woooof wf wof woooooof, wof woooooof

abasement of poor Starbuck's fortitude, scarce might I have the heart to
wooooooof wf woof Woooooof'w wooooooof, woooof wooof W woof wof wooof wf

write it; for it is a thing most sorrowful, nay shocking, to expose
wooof wf; wof wf wf w wooof woof wooooooof, wof woooooof, wf woooof

the fall of valour in the soul. Men may seem detestable as joint
wof woof wf woooof wf wof woof. Wof wof woof woooooooof wf wooof

stock-companies and nations; knaves, fools, and murderers there may be;
wooof-wooooooof wof wooooof; woooof, wooof, wof wooooooof wooof wof wf;

men may have mean and meagre faces; but man, in the ideal, is so noble
wof wof woof woof wof woooof wooof; wof wof, wf wof wooof, wf wf wooof

and so sparkling, such a grand and glowing creature, that over any
wof wf wooooooof, woof w wooof wof wooooof woooooof, woof woof wof

ignominious blemish in him all his fellows should run to throw their
wooooooooof wooooof wf wof wof wof wooooof woooof wof wf wooof wooof

costliest robes. That immaculate manliness we feel within ourselves,
wooooooof wooof. Woof woooooooof wooooooof wf woof woooof wooooooof,

so far within us, that it remains intact though all the outer character
wf wof woooof wf, woof wf wooooof woooof woooof wof wof wooof wooooooof

seem gone; bleeds with keenest anguish at the undraped spectacle of
woof woof; woooof woof wooooof wooooof wf wof woooooof wooooooof wf

a valor-ruined man. Nor can piety itself, at such a shameful sight,
w wooof-woooof wof. Wof wof wooof woooof, wf woof w woooooof wooof,

completely stifle her upbraidings against the permitting stars. But this
woooooooof woooof wof wooooooooof wooooof wof woooooooof wooof. Wof woof

august dignity I treat of, is not the dignity of kings and robes, but
woooof wooooof W wooof wf, wf wof wof wooooof wf wooof wof wooof, wof

that abounding dignity which has no robed investiture. Thou shalt see it
woof wooooooof wooooof wooof wof wf wooof wooooooooof. Woof wooof wof wf

shining in the arm that wields a pick or drives a spike; that democratic
wooooof wf wof wof woof woooof w woof wf woooof w wooof; woof woooooooof

dignity which, on all hands, radiates without end from God; Himself! The
wooooof wooof, wf wof wooof, woooooof wooooof wof woof Wof; Wooooof! Wof

great God absolute! The centre and circumference of all democracy! His
wooof Wof woooooof! Wof woooof wof wooooooooooof wf wof wooooooof! Wof

omnipresence, our divine equality!
woooooooooof, wof woooof woooooof!




If, then, to meanest mariners, and renegades and castaways, I shall
Wf, woof, wf wooooof woooooof, wof wooooooof wof wooooooof, W wooof

hereafter ascribe high qualities, though dark; weave round them tragic
wooooooof wooooof woof wooooooof, woooof woof; wooof wooof woof woooof

graces; if even the most mournful, perchance the most abased, among them
woooof; wf woof wof woof woooooof, wooooooof wof woof woooof, wooof woof

all, shall at times lift himself to the exalted mounts; if I shall touch
wof, wooof wf wooof woof wooooof wf wof wooooof woooof; wf W wooof wooof

that workman's arm with some ethereal light; if I shall spread a rainbow
woof wooooof'w wof woof woof woooooof wooof; wf W wooof woooof w wooooof

over his disastrous set of sun; then against all mortal critics bear
woof wof woooooooof wof wf wof; woof wooooof wof woooof wooooof woof

me out in it, thou Just Spirit of Equality, which hast spread one royal
wf wof wf wf, woof Woof Woooof wf Woooooof, wooof woof woooof wof wooof

mantle of humanity over all my kind! Bear me out in it, thou great
woooof wf woooooof woof wof wf woof! Woof wf wof wf wf, woof wooof

democratic God! who didst not refuse to the swart convict, Bunyan, the
woooooooof Wof! wof wooof wof woooof wf wof wooof wooooof, Woooof, wof

pale, poetic pearl; Thou who didst clothe with doubly hammered leaves
woof, woooof wooof; Woof wof wooof woooof woof woooof woooooof woooof

of finest gold, the stumped and paupered arm of old Cervantes; Thou who
wf woooof woof, wof wooooof wof woooooof wof wf wof Wooooooof; Woof wof

didst pick up Andrew Jackson from the pebbles; who didst hurl him upon a
wooof woof wf Woooof Wooooof woof wof wooooof; wof wooof woof wof woof w

war-horse; who didst thunder him higher than a throne! Thou who, in all
wof-wooof; wof wooof wooooof wof woooof woof w woooof! Woof wof, wf wof

Thy mighty, earthly marchings, ever cullest Thy selectest champions from
Wof woooof, wooooof wooooooof, woof wooooof Wof wooooooof wooooooof woof

the kingly commons; bear me out in it, O God!
wof woooof wooooof; woof wf wof wf wf, W Wof!










CHAPTER 27. Knights and Squires.
WOOOOOF wf. Wooooof wof Wooooof.







Stubb was the second mate. He was a native of Cape Cod; and hence,
Wooof wof wof woooof woof. Wf wof w woooof wf Woof Wof; wof wooof,

according to local usage, was called a Cape-Cod-man. A happy-go-lucky;
wooooooof wf wooof wooof, wof woooof w Woof-Wof-wof. W wooof-wf-wooof;

neither craven nor valiant; taking perils as they came with an
wooooof woooof wof wooooof; woooof woooof wf woof woof woof wf

indifferent air; and while engaged in the most imminent crisis of the
wooooooooof wof; wof wooof wooooof wf wof woof woooooof woooof wf wof

chase, toiling away, calm and collected as a journeyman joiner engaged
wooof, wooooof woof, woof wof wooooooof wf w woooooooof woooof wooooof

for the year. Good-humored, easy, and careless, he presided over his
wof wof woof. Woof-wooooof, woof, wof woooooof, wf woooooof woof wof

whale-boat as if the most deadly encounter were but a dinner, and his
wooof-woof wf wf wof woof woooof wooooooof woof wof w woooof, wof wof

crew all invited guests. He was as particular about the comfortable
woof wof wooooof woooof. Wf wof wf woooooooof wooof wof wooooooooof

arrangement of his part of the boat, as an old stage-driver is about the
wooooooooof wf wof woof wf wof woof, wf wf wof wooof-woooof wf wooof wof

snugness of his box. When close to the whale, in the very death-lock of
woooooof wf wof wof. Woof wooof wf wof wooof, wf wof woof wooof-woof wf

the fight, he handled his unpitying lance coolly and off-handedly, as
wof wooof, wf wooooof wof wooooooof wooof woooof wof wof-woooooof, wf

a whistling tinker his hammer. He would hum over his old rigadig tunes
w wooooooof woooof wof woooof. Wf wooof wof woof wof wof wooooof wooof

while flank and flank with the most exasperated monster. Long usage had,
wooof wooof wof wooof woof wof woof wooooooooof wooooof. Woof wooof wof,

for this Stubb, converted the jaws of death into an easy chair. What he
wof woof Wooof, wooooooof wof woof wf wooof woof wf woof wooof. Woof wf

thought of death itself, there is no telling. Whether he ever thought of
wooooof wf wooof woooof, wooof wf wf wooooof. Wooooof wf woof wooooof wf

it at all, might be a question; but, if he ever did chance to cast his
wf wf wof, wooof wf w woooooof; wof, wf wf woof wof woooof wf woof wof

mind that way after a comfortable dinner, no doubt, like a good sailor,
woof woof wof wooof w wooooooooof woooof, wf wooof, woof w woof woooof,

he took it to be a sort of call of the watch to tumble aloft, and bestir
wf woof wf wf wf w woof wf woof wf wof wooof wf woooof wooof, wof woooof

themselves there, about something which he would find out when he obeyed
woooooooof wooof, wooof wooooooof wooof wf wooof woof wof woof wf woooof

the order, and not sooner.
wof wooof, wof wof woooof.




What, perhaps, with other things, made Stubb such an easy-going,
Woof, wooooof, woof wooof woooof, woof Wooof woof wf woof-wooof,

unfearing man, so cheerily trudging off with the burden of life in a
wooooooof wof, wf woooooof woooooof wof woof wof woooof wf woof wf w

world full of grave pedlars, all bowed to the ground with their packs;
wooof woof wf wooof wooooof, wof wooof wf wof woooof woof wooof wooof;

what helped to bring about that almost impious good-humor of his; that
woof woooof wf wooof wooof woof woooof wooooof woof-wooof wf wof; woof

thing must have been his pipe. For, like his nose, his short, black
wooof woof woof woof wof woof. Wof, woof wof woof, wof wooof, wooof

little pipe was one of the regular features of his face. You would
woooof woof wof wof wf wof wooooof woooooof wf wof woof. Wof wooof

almost as soon have expected him to turn out of his bunk without his
woooof wf woof woof woooooof wof wf woof wof wf wof woof wooooof wof

nose as without his pipe. He kept a whole row of pipes there ready
woof wf wooooof wof woof. Wf woof w wooof wof wf wooof wooof wooof

loaded, stuck in a rack, within easy reach of his hand; and, whenever he
woooof, wooof wf w woof, woooof woof wooof wf wof woof; wof, woooooof wf

turned in, he smoked them all out in succession, lighting one from
woooof wf, wf woooof woof wof wof wf woooooooof, woooooof wof woof

the other to the end of the chapter; then loading them again to be in
wof wooof wf wof wof wf wof wooooof; woof wooooof woof wooof wf wf wf

readiness anew. For, when Stubb dressed, instead of first putting his
wooooooof woof. Wof, woof Wooof wooooof, wooooof wf wooof wooooof wof

legs into his trowsers, he put his pipe into his mouth.
woof woof wof woooooof, wf wof wof woof woof wof wooof.




I say this continual smoking must have been one cause, at least, of his
W wof woof wooooooof wooooof woof woof woof wof wooof, wf wooof, wf wof

peculiar disposition; for every one knows that this earthly air, whether
woooooof wooooooooof; wof wooof wof wooof woof woof wooooof wof, wooooof

ashore or afloat, is terribly infected with the nameless miseries of
woooof wf woooof, wf woooooof woooooof woof wof woooooof woooooof wf

the numberless mortals who have died exhaling it; and as in time of the
wof woooooooof wooooof wof woof woof woooooof wf; wof wf wf woof wf wof

cholera, some people go about with a camphorated handkerchief to their
wooooof, woof woooof wf wooof woof w wooooooooof woooooooooof wf wooof

mouths; so, likewise, against all mortal tribulations, Stubb's tobacco
woooof; wf, woooooof, wooooof wof woooof woooooooooof, Wooof'w wooooof

smoke might have operated as a sort of disinfecting agent.
wooof wooof woof woooooof wf w woof wf woooooooooof wooof.




The third mate was Flask, a native of Tisbury, in Martha's Vineyard. A
Wof wooof woof wof Wooof, w woooof wf Wooooof, wf Woooof'w Woooooof. W

short, stout, ruddy young fellow, very pugnacious concerning whales,
wooof, wooof, wooof wooof woooof, woof woooooooof woooooooof woooof,

who somehow seemed to think that the great leviathans had personally
wof wooooof woooof wf wooof woof wof wooof woooooooof wof woooooooof

and hereditarily affronted him; and therefore it was a sort of point of
wof woooooooooof wooooooof wof; wof wooooooof wf wof w woof wf wooof wf

honour with him, to destroy them whenever encountered. So utterly lost
woooof woof wof, wf wooooof woof woooooof wooooooooof. Wf wooooof woof

was he to all sense of reverence for the many marvels of their majestic
wof wf wf wof wooof wf wooooooof wof wof woof wooooof wf wooof woooooof

bulk and mystic ways; and so dead to anything like an apprehension of
woof wof woooof woof; wof wf woof wf woooooof woof wf woooooooooof wf

any possible danger from encountering them; that in his poor opinion,
wof woooooof woooof woof woooooooooof woof; woof wf wof woof wooooof,

the wondrous whale was but a species of magnified mouse, or at least
wof woooooof wooof wof wof w wooooof wf wooooooof wooof, wf wf wooof

water-rat, requiring only a little circumvention and some small
wooof-wof, wooooooof woof w woooof wooooooooooof wof woof wooof

application of time and trouble in order to kill and boil. This
wooooooooof wf woof wof wooooof wf wooof wf woof wof woof. Woof

ignorant, unconscious fearlessness of his made him a little waggish in
woooooof, wooooooooof woooooooooof wf wof woof wof w woooof wooooof wf

the matter of whales; he followed these fish for the fun of it; and a
wof woooof wf woooof; wf woooooof wooof woof wof wof wof wf wf; wof w

three years' voyage round Cape Horn was only a jolly joke that lasted
wooof wooof' woooof wooof Woof Woof wof woof w wooof woof woof woooof

that length of time. As a carpenter's nails are divided into wrought
woof woooof wf woof. Wf w wooooooof'w wooof wof wooooof woof wooooof

nails and cut nails; so mankind may be similarly divided. Little Flask
wooof wof wof wooof; wf wooooof wof wf wooooooof wooooof. Woooof Wooof

was one of the wrought ones; made to clinch tight and last long. They
wof wof wf wof wooooof woof; woof wf woooof wooof wof woof woof. Woof

called him King-Post on board of the Pequod; because, in form, he could
woooof wof Woof-Woof wf wooof wf wof Woooof; wooooof, wf woof, wf wooof

be well likened to the short, square timber known by that name in Arctic
wf woof wooooof wf wof wooof, woooof woooof wooof wf woof woof wf Woooof

whalers; and which by the means of many radiating side timbers inserted
wooooof; wof wooof wf wof wooof wf woof wooooooof woof wooooof woooooof

into it, serves to brace the ship against the icy concussions of those
woof wf, woooof wf wooof wof woof wooooof wof wof wooooooooof wf wooof

battering seas.
wooooooof woof.




Now these three mates--Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask, were momentous
Wof wooof wooof wooof--Woooooof, Wooof, wof Wooof, woof wooooooof

men. They it was who by universal prescription commanded three of the
wof. Woof wf wof wof wf wooooooof woooooooooof wooooooof wooof wf wof

Pequod's boats as headsmen. In that grand order of battle in which
Woooof'w wooof wf woooooof. Wf woof wooof wooof wf woooof wf wooof

Captain Ahab would probably marshal his forces to descend on the whales,
Wooooof Woof wooof woooooof wooooof wof woooof wf wooooof wf wof woooof,

these three headsmen were as captains of companies. Or, being armed with
wooof wooof woooooof woof wf woooooof wf wooooooof. Wf, wooof wooof woof

their long keen whaling spears, they were as a picked trio of lancers;
wooof woof woof wooooof woooof, woof woof wf w woooof woof wf wooooof;

even as the harpooneers were flingers of javelins.
woof wf wof wooooooooof woof woooooof wf woooooof.




And since in this famous fishery, each mate or headsman, like a Gothic
Wof wooof wf woof woooof wooooof, woof woof wf woooooof, woof w Woooof

Knight of old, is always accompanied by his boat-steerer or harpooneer,
Woooof wf wof, wf woooof wooooooooof wf wof woof-wooooof wf woooooooof,

who in certain conjunctures provides him with a fresh lance, when
wof wf wooooof woooooooooof woooooof wof woof w wooof wooof, woof

the former one has been badly twisted, or elbowed in the assault; and
wof woooof wof wof woof wooof wooooof, wf wooooof wf wof wooooof; wof

moreover, as there generally subsists between the two, a close intimacy
woooooof, wf wooof wooooooof woooooof wooooof wof wof, w wooof woooooof

and friendliness; it is therefore but meet, that in this place we set
wof woooooooooof; wf wf wooooooof wof woof, woof wf woof wooof wf wof

down who the Pequod's harpooneers were, and to what headsman each of
woof wof wof Woooof'w wooooooooof woof, wof wf woof woooooof woof wf

them belonged.
woof woooooof.




First of all was Queequeg, whom Starbuck, the chief mate, had selected
Wooof wf wof wof Woooooof, woof Woooooof, wof wooof woof, wof woooooof

for his squire. But Queequeg is already known.
wof wof woooof. Wof Woooooof wf wooooof wooof.




Next was Tashtego, an unmixed Indian from Gay Head, the most westerly
Woof wof Woooooof, wf wooooof Woooof woof Wof Woof, wof woof woooooof

promontory of Martha's Vineyard, where there still exists the last
woooooooof wf Woooof'w Woooooof, wooof wooof wooof woooof wof woof

remnant of a village of red men, which has long supplied the neighboring
wooooof wf w wooooof wf wof wof, wooof wof woof woooooof wof wooooooooof

island of Nantucket with many of her most daring harpooneers. In the
woooof wf Wooooooof woof woof wf wof woof woooof wooooooooof. Wf wof

fishery, they usually go by the generic name of Gay-Headers. Tashtego's
wooooof, woof wooooof wf wf wof wooooof woof wf Wof-Wooooof. Woooooof'w

long, lean, sable hair, his high cheek bones, and black rounding
woof, woof, wooof woof, wof woof wooof wooof, wof wooof woooooof

eyes--for an Indian, Oriental in their largeness, but Antarctic in their
woof--wof wf Woooof, Woooooof wf wooof wooooooof, wof Wooooooof wf wooof

glittering expression--all this sufficiently proclaimed him an inheritor
woooooooof woooooooof--wof woof woooooooooof woooooooof wof wf wooooooof

of the unvitiated blood of those proud warrior hunters, who, in quest
wf wof woooooooof wooof wf wooof wooof wooooof wooooof, wof, wf wooof

of the great New England moose, had scoured, bow in hand, the aboriginal
wf wof wooof Wof Wooooof wooof, wof wooooof, wof wf woof, wof woooooooof

forests of the main. But no longer snuffing in the trail of the wild
wooooof wf wof woof. Wof wf woooof woooooof wf wof wooof wf wof woof

beasts of the woodland, Tashtego now hunted in the wake of the great
woooof wf wof woooooof, Woooooof wof woooof wf wof woof wf wof wooof

whales of the sea; the unerring harpoon of the son fitly replacing the
woooof wf wof wof; wof woooooof wooooof wf wof wof wooof wooooooof wof

infallible arrow of the sires. To look at the tawny brawn of his lithe
woooooooof wooof wf wof wooof. Wf woof wf wof wooof wooof wf wof wooof

snaky limbs, you would almost have credited the superstitions of some of
wooof wooof, wof wooof woooof woof woooooof wof wooooooooooof wf woof wf

the earlier Puritans, and half-believed this wild Indian to be a son
wof wooooof Woooooof, wof woof-woooooof woof woof Woooof wf wf w wof

of the Prince of the Powers of the Air. Tashtego was Stubb the second
wf wof Woooof wf wof Woooof wf wof Wof. Woooooof wof Wooof wof woooof

mate's squire.
woof'w woooof.




Third among the harpooneers was Daggoo, a gigantic, coal-black
Wooof wooof wof wooooooooof wof Woooof, w woooooof, woof-wooof

negro-savage, with a lion-like tread--an Ahasuerus to behold. Suspended
wooof-woooof, woof w woof-woof wooof--wf Wooooooof wf woooof. Wooooooof

from his ears were two golden hoops, so large that the sailors called
woof wof woof woof wof woooof wooof, wf wooof woof wof wooooof woooof

them ring-bolts, and would talk of securing the top-sail halyards to
woof woof-wooof, wof wooof woof wf woooooof wof wof-woof woooooof wf

them. In his youth Daggoo had voluntarily shipped on board of a whaler,
woof. Wf wof wooof Woooof wof wooooooooof wooooof wf wooof wf w woooof,

lying in a lonely bay on his native coast. And never having been
wooof wf w woooof wof wf wof woooof wooof. Wof wooof woooof woof

anywhere in the world but in Africa, Nantucket, and the pagan harbors
woooooof wf wof wooof wof wf Woooof, Wooooooof, wof wof wooof wooooof

most frequented by whalemen; and having now led for many years the bold
woof woooooooof wf woooooof; wof woooof wof wof wof woof wooof wof woof

life of the fishery in the ships of owners uncommonly heedful of what
woof wf wof wooooof wf wof wooof wf woooof woooooooof wooooof wf woof

manner of men they shipped; Daggoo retained all his barbaric virtues,
woooof wf wof woof wooooof; Woooof woooooof wof wof woooooof wooooof,

and erect as a giraffe, moved about the decks in all the pomp of six
wof wooof wf w wooooof, wooof wooof wof wooof wf wof wof woof wf wof

feet five in his socks. There was a corporeal humility in looking up at
woof woof wf wof wooof. Wooof wof w wooooooof woooooof wf wooooof wf wf

him; and a white man standing before him seemed a white flag come to
wof; wof w wooof wof woooooof woooof wof woooof w wooof woof woof wf

beg truce of a fortress. Curious to tell, this imperial negro, Ahasuerus
wof wooof wf w woooooof. Wooooof wf woof, woof woooooof wooof, Wooooooof

Daggoo, was the Squire of little Flask, who looked like a chess-man
Woooof, wof wof Woooof wf woooof Wooof, wof woooof woof w wooof-wof

beside him. As for the residue of the Pequod's company, be it said, that
woooof wof. Wf wof wof wooooof wf wof Woooof'w wooooof, wf wf woof, woof

at the present day not one in two of the many thousand men before the
wf wof wooooof wof wof wof wf wof wf wof woof woooooof wof woooof wof

mast employed in the American whale fishery, are Americans born, though
woof woooooof wf wof Woooooof wooof wooooof, wof Wooooooof woof, woooof

pretty nearly all the officers are. Herein it is the same with the
woooof woooof wof wof woooooof wof. Woooof wf wf wof woof woof wof

American whale fishery as with the American army and military and
Woooooof wooof wooooof wf woof wof Woooooof woof wof woooooof wof

merchant navies, and the engineering forces employed in the construction
woooooof woooof, wof wof wooooooooof woooof woooooof wf wof woooooooooof

of the American Canals and Railroads. The same, I say, because in all
wf wof Woooooof Woooof wof Wooooooof. Wof woof, W wof, wooooof wf wof

these cases the native American liberally provides the brains, the rest
wooof wooof wof woooof Woooooof wooooooof woooooof wof woooof, wof woof

of the world as generously supplying the muscles. No small number of
wf wof wooof wf woooooooof wooooooof wof wooooof. Wf wooof woooof wf

these whaling seamen belong to the Azores, where the outward bound
wooof wooooof woooof woooof wf wof Woooof, wooof wof wooooof wooof

Nantucket whalers frequently touch to augment their crews from the hardy
Wooooooof wooooof woooooooof wooof wf wooooof wooof wooof woof wof wooof

peasants of those rocky shores. In like manner, the Greenland whalers
woooooof wf wooof wooof woooof. Wf woof woooof, wof Wooooooof wooooof

sailing out of Hull or London, put in at the Shetland Islands, to
wooooof wof wf Woof wf Woooof, wof wf wf wof Woooooof Wooooof, wf

receive the full complement of their crew. Upon the passage homewards,
wooooof wof woof woooooooof wf wooof woof. Woof wof wooooof wooooooof,

they drop them there again. How it is, there is no telling, but
woof woof woof wooof wooof. Wof wf wf, wooof wf wf wooooof, wof

Islanders seem to make the best whalemen. They were nearly all Islanders
Wooooooof woof wf woof wof woof woooooof. Woof woof woooof wof Wooooooof

in the Pequod, ISOLATOES too, I call such, not acknowledging the common
wf wof Woooof, WOOOOOOOF wof, W woof woof, wof wooooooooooof wof woooof

continent of men, but each ISOLATO living on a separate continent of his
wooooooof wf wof, wof woof WOOOOOF woooof wf w woooooof wooooooof wf wof

own. Yet now, federated along one keel, what a set these Isolatoes were!
wof. Wof wof, wooooooof wooof wof woof, woof w wof wooof Wooooooof woof!

An Anacharsis Clootz deputation from all the isles of the sea, and all
Wf Woooooooof Woooof woooooooof woof wof wof wooof wf wof wof, wof wof

the ends of the earth, accompanying Old Ahab in the Pequod to lay the
wof woof wf wof wooof, woooooooooof Wof Woof wf wof Woooof wf wof wof

world's grievances before that bar from which not very many of them ever
wooof'w woooooooof woooof woof wof woof wooof wof woof woof wf woof woof

come back. Black Little Pip--he never did--oh, no! he went before. Poor
woof woof. Wooof Woooof Wof--wf wooof wof--wf, wf! wf woof woooof. Woof

Alabama boy! On the grim Pequod's forecastle, ye shall ere long see him,
Wooooof wof! Wf wof woof Woooof'w woooooooof, wf wooof wof woof wof wof,

beating his tambourine; prelusive of the eternal time, when sent for,
wooooof wof woooooooof; wooooooof wf wof wooooof woof, woof woof wof,

to the great quarter-deck on high, he was bid strike in with angels, and
wf wof wooof wooooof-woof wf woof, wf wof wof woooof wf woof woooof, wof

beat his tambourine in glory; called a coward here, hailed a hero there!
woof wof woooooooof wf wooof; woooof w woooof woof, woooof w woof wooof!










CHAPTER 28. Ahab.
WOOOOOF wf. Woof.







For several days after leaving Nantucket, nothing above hatches was seen
Wof wooooof woof wooof wooooof Wooooooof, wooooof wooof wooooof wof woof

of Captain Ahab. The mates regularly relieved each other at the watches,
wf Wooooof Woof. Wof wooof wooooooof woooooof woof wooof wf wof wooooof,

and for aught that could be seen to the contrary, they seemed to be the
wof wof wooof woof wooof wf woof wf wof woooooof, woof woooof wf wf wof

only commanders of the ship; only they sometimes issued from the cabin
woof woooooooof wf wof woof; woof woof wooooooof woooof woof wof wooof

with orders so sudden and peremptory, that after all it was plain they
woof woooof wf woooof wof woooooooof, woof wooof wof wf wof wooof woof

but commanded vicariously. Yes, their supreme lord and dictator was
wof wooooooof wooooooooof. Wof, wooof wooooof woof wof woooooof wof

there, though hitherto unseen by any eyes not permitted to penetrate
wooof, woooof woooooof woooof wf wof woof wof wooooooof wf wooooooof

into the now sacred retreat of the cabin.
woof wof wof woooof wooooof wf wof wooof.




Every time I ascended to the deck from my watches below, I instantly
Wooof woof W woooooof wf wof woof woof wf wooooof wooof, W wooooooof

gazed aft to mark if any strange face were visible; for my first vague
wooof wof wf woof wf wof wooooof woof woof wooooof; wof wf wooof wooof

disquietude touching the unknown captain, now in the seclusion of the
wooooooooof woooooof wof wooooof wooooof, wof wf wof wooooooof wf wof

sea, became almost a perturbation. This was strangely heightened
wof, woooof woooof w woooooooooof. Woof wof wooooooof woooooooof

at times by the ragged Elijah's diabolical incoherences uninvitedly
wf wooof wf wof woooof Woooof'w woooooooof woooooooooof wooooooooof

recurring to me, with a subtle energy I could not have before conceived
wooooooof wf wf, woof w woooof woooof W wooof wof woof woooof wooooooof

of. But poorly could I withstand them, much as in other moods I was
wf. Wof woooof wooof W wooooooof woof, woof wf wf wooof wooof W wof

almost ready to smile at the solemn whimsicalities of that outlandish
woooof wooof wf wooof wf wof woooof woooooooooooof wf woof woooooooof

prophet of the wharves. But whatever it was of apprehensiveness or
wooooof wf wof wooooof. Wof woooooof wf wof wf woooooooooooooof wf

uneasiness--to call it so--which I felt, yet whenever I came to look
woooooooof--wf woof wf wf--wooof W woof, wof woooooof W woof wf woof

about me in the ship, it seemed against all warrantry to cherish such
wooof wf wf wof woof, wf woooof wooooof wof wooooooof wf wooooof woof

emotions. For though the harpooneers, with the great body of the crew,
woooooof. Wof woooof wof wooooooooof, woof wof wooof woof wf wof woof,

were a far more barbaric, heathenish, and motley set than any of the
woof w wof woof woooooof, woooooooof, wof woooof wof woof wof wf wof

tame merchant-ship companies which my previous experiences had made me
woof woooooof-woof wooooooof wooof wf woooooof wooooooooof wof woof wf

acquainted with, still I ascribed this--and rightly ascribed it--to the
woooooooof woof, wooof W woooooof woof--wof wooooof woooooof wf--wf wof

fierce uniqueness of the very nature of that wild Scandinavian vocation
woooof woooooooof wf wof woof woooof wf woof woof Woooooooooof woooooof

in which I had so abandonedly embarked. But it was especially the aspect
wf wooof W wof wf wooooooooof woooooof. Wof wf wof woooooooof wof woooof

of the three chief officers of the ship, the mates, which was most
wf wof wooof wooof woooooof wf wof woof, wof wooof, wooof wof woof

forcibly calculated to allay these colourless misgivings, and induce
woooooof woooooooof wf wooof wooof woooooooof woooooooof, wof woooof

confidence and cheerfulness in every presentment of the voyage. Three
woooooooof wof woooooooooof wf wooof wooooooooof wf wof woooof. Wooof

better, more likely sea-officers and men, each in his own different way,
woooof, woof woooof wof-woooooof wof wof, woof wf wof wof wooooooof wof,

could not readily be found, and they were every one of them Americans; a
wooof wof wooooof wf wooof, wof woof woof wooof wof wf woof Wooooooof; w

Nantucketer, a Vineyarder, a Cape man. Now, it being Christmas when the
Wooooooooof, w Woooooooof, w Woof wof. Wof, wf wooof Wooooooof woof wof

ship shot from out her harbor, for a space we had biting Polar weather,
woof woof woof wof wof woooof, wof w wooof wf wof woooof Wooof wooooof,

though all the time running away from it to the southward; and by every
woooof wof wof woof wooooof woof woof wf wf wof wooooooof; wof wf wooof

degree and minute of latitude which we sailed, gradually leaving that
woooof wof woooof wf woooooof wooof wf woooof, wooooooof wooooof woof

merciless winter, and all its intolerable weather behind us. It was one
wooooooof woooof, wof wof wof wooooooooof wooooof woooof wf. Wf wof wof

of those less lowering, but still grey and gloomy enough mornings of the
wf wooof woof woooooof, wof wooof woof wof woooof woooof woooooof wf wof

transition, when with a fair wind the ship was rushing through the water
woooooooof, woof woof w woof woof wof woof wof wooooof wooooof wof wooof

with a vindictive sort of leaping and melancholy rapidity, that as I
woof w woooooooof woof wf wooooof wof woooooooof woooooof, woof wf W

mounted to the deck at the call of the forenoon watch, so soon as I
wooooof wf wof woof wf wof woof wf wof woooooof wooof, wf woof wf W

levelled my glance towards the taffrail, foreboding shivers ran over me.
woooooof wf woooof wooooof wof woooooof, woooooooof wooooof wof woof wf.

Reality outran apprehension; Captain Ahab stood upon his quarter-deck.
Wooooof woooof woooooooooof; Wooooof Woof wooof woof wof wooooof-woof.




There seemed no sign of common bodily illness about him, nor of the
Wooof woooof wf woof wf woooof woooof wooooof wooof wof, wof wf wof

recovery from any. He looked like a man cut away from the stake, when
woooooof woof wof. Wf woooof woof w wof wof woof woof wof wooof, woof

the fire has overrunningly wasted all the limbs without consuming them,
wof woof wof wooooooooooof woooof wof wof wooof wooooof wooooooof woof,

or taking away one particle from their compacted aged robustness. His
wf woooof woof wof woooooof woof wooof wooooooof woof woooooooof. Wof

whole high, broad form, seemed made of solid bronze, and shaped in an
wooof woof, wooof woof, woooof woof wf wooof woooof, wof woooof wf wf

unalterable mould, like Cellini's cast Perseus. Threading its way out
wooooooooof wooof, woof Wooooof'w woof Wooooof. Wooooooof wof wof wof

from among his grey hairs, and continuing right down one side of his
woof wooof wof woof wooof, wof woooooooof wooof woof wof woof wf wof

tawny scorched face and neck, till it disappeared in his clothing,
wooof woooooof woof wof woof, woof wf wooooooooof wf wof woooooof,

you saw a slender rod-like mark, lividly whitish. It resembled that
wof wof w wooooof wof-woof woof, wooooof wooooof. Wf wooooooof woof

perpendicular seam sometimes made in the straight, lofty trunk of
wooooooooooof woof wooooooof woof wf wof woooooof, wooof wooof wf

a great tree, when the upper lightning tearingly darts down it, and
w wooof woof, woof wof wooof wooooooof wooooooof wooof woof wf, wof

without wrenching a single twig, peels and grooves out the bark from top
wooooof wooooooof w woooof woof, wooof wof wooooof wof wof woof woof wof

to bottom, ere running off into the soil, leaving the tree still greenly
wf woooof, wof wooooof wof woof wof woof, wooooof wof woof wooof wooooof

alive, but branded. Whether that mark was born with him, or whether it
wooof, wof wooooof. Wooooof woof woof wof woof woof wof, wf wooooof wf

was the scar left by some desperate wound, no one could certainly say.
wof wof woof woof wf woof wooooooof wooof, wf wof wooof wooooooof wof.

By some tacit consent, throughout the voyage little or no allusion was
Wf woof wooof wooooof, woooooooof wof woooof woooof wf wf woooooof wof

made to it, especially by the mates. But once Tashtego's senior, an old
woof wf wf, woooooooof wf wof wooof. Wof woof Woooooof'w woooof, wf wof

Gay-Head Indian among the crew, superstitiously asserted that not till
Wof-Woof Woooof wooof wof woof, wooooooooooooof woooooof woof wof woof

he was full forty years old did Ahab become that way branded, and
wf wof woof wooof wooof wof wof Woof woooof woof wof wooooof, wof

then it came upon him, not in the fury of any mortal fray, but in
woof wf woof woof wof, wof wf wof woof wf wof woooof woof, wof wf

an elemental strife at sea. Yet, this wild hint seemed inferentially
wf wooooooof woooof wf wof. Wof, woof woof woof woooof wooooooooooof

negatived, by what a grey Manxman insinuated, an old sepulchral man,
wooooooof, wf woof w woof Wooooof woooooooof, wf wof woooooooof wof,

who, having never before sailed out of Nantucket, had never ere this
wof, woooof wooof woooof woooof wof wf Wooooooof, wof wooof wof woof

laid eye upon wild Ahab. Nevertheless, the old sea-traditions, the
woof wof woof woof Woof. Woooooooooof, wof wof wof-woooooooof, wof

immemorial credulities, popularly invested this old Manxman with
woooooooof wooooooooof, wooooooof woooooof woof wof Wooooof woof

preternatural powers of discernment. So that no white sailor seriously
wooooooooooof woooof wf wooooooooof. Wf woof wf wooof woooof wooooooof

contradicted him when he said that if ever Captain Ahab should
woooooooooof wof woof wf woof woof wf woof Wooooof Woof woooof

be tranquilly laid out--which might hardly come to pass, so he
wf woooooooof woof wof--wooof wooof woooof woof wf woof, wf wf

muttered--then, whoever should do that last office for the dead, would
woooooof--woof, wooooof woooof wf woof woof woooof wof wof woof, wooof

find a birth-mark on him from crown to sole.
woof w wooof-woof wf wof woof wooof wf woof.




So powerfully did the whole grim aspect of Ahab affect me, and the livid
Wf woooooooof wof wof wooof woof woooof wf Woof woooof wf, wof wof wooof

brand which streaked it, that for the first few moments I hardly noted
wooof wooof woooooof wf, woof wof wof wooof wof wooooof W woooof wooof

that not a little of this overbearing grimness was owing to the barbaric
woof wof w woooof wf woof wooooooooof woooooof wof wooof wf wof woooooof

white leg upon which he partly stood. It had previously come to me that
wooof wof woof wooof wf woooof wooof. Wf wof woooooooof woof wf wf woof

this ivory leg had at sea been fashioned from the polished bone of
woof wooof wof wof wf wof woof wooooooof woof wof woooooof woof wf

the sperm whale's jaw. "Aye, he was dismasted off Japan," said the old
wof wooof wooof'w wof. "Wof, wf wof wooooooof wof Wooof," woof wof wof

Gay-Head Indian once; "but like his dismasted craft, he shipped another
Wof-Woof Woooof woof; "wof woof wof wooooooof wooof, wf wooooof wooooof

mast without coming home for it. He has a quiver of 'em."
woof wooooof woooof woof wof wf. Wf wof w woooof wf 'wf."




I was struck with the singular posture he maintained. Upon each side of
W wof woooof woof wof woooooof wooooof wf woooooooof. Woof woof woof wf

the Pequod's quarter deck, and pretty close to the mizzen shrouds, there
wof Woooof'w wooooof woof, wof woooof wooof wf wof woooof wooooof, wooof

was an auger hole, bored about half an inch or so, into the plank.
wof wf wooof woof, wooof wooof woof wf woof wf wf, woof wof wooof.

His bone leg steadied in that hole; one arm elevated, and holding by a
Wof woof wof woooooof wf woof woof; wof wof woooooof, wof wooooof wf w

shroud; Captain Ahab stood erect, looking straight out beyond the
woooof; Wooooof Woof wooof wooof, wooooof woooooof wof woooof wof

ship's ever-pitching prow. There was an infinity of firmest fortitude,
woof'w woof-woooooof woof. Wooof wof wf woooooof wf wooooof wooooooof,

a determinate, unsurrenderable wilfulness, in the fixed and fearless,
w wooooooooof, wooooooooooooof woooooooof, wf wof wooof wof woooooof,

forward dedication of that glance. Not a word he spoke; nor did his
wooooof woooooooof wf woof woooof. Wof w woof wf wooof; wof wof wof

officers say aught to him; though by all their minutest gestures
woooooof wof wooof wf wof; woooof wf wof wooof woooooof woooooof

and expressions, they plainly showed the uneasy, if not painful,
wof wooooooooof, woof wooooof woooof wof woooof, wf wof wooooof,

consciousness of being under a troubled master-eye. And not only that,
wooooooooooof wf wooof wooof w woooooof woooof-wof. Wof wof woof woof,

but moody stricken Ahab stood before them with a crucifixion in his
wof wooof woooooof Woof wooof woooof woof woof w wooooooooof wf wof

face; in all the nameless regal overbearing dignity of some mighty woe.
woof; wf wof wof woooooof wooof wooooooooof wooooof wf woof woooof wof.




Ere long, from his first visit in the air, he withdrew into his cabin.
Wof woof, woof wof wooof wooof wf wof wof, wf woooooof woof wof wooof.

But after that morning, he was every day visible to the crew; either
Wof wooof woof wooooof, wf wof wooof wof wooooof wf wof woof; woooof

standing in his pivot-hole, or seated upon an ivory stool he had; or
woooooof wf wof wooof-woof, wf woooof woof wf wooof wooof wf wof; wf

heavily walking the deck. As the sky grew less gloomy; indeed, began to
wooooof wooooof wof woof. Wf wof wof woof woof woooof; woooof, wooof wf

grow a little genial, he became still less and less a recluse; as
woof w woooof woooof, wf woooof wooof woof wof woof w wooooof; wf

if, when the ship had sailed from home, nothing but the dead wintry
wf, woof wof woof wof woooof woof woof, wooooof wof wof woof woooof

bleakness of the sea had then kept him so secluded. And, by and by, it
wooooooof wf wof wof wof woof woof wof wf woooooof. Wof, wf wof wf, wf

came to pass, that he was almost continually in the air; but, as yet,
woof wf woof, woof wf wof woooof wooooooooof wf wof wof; wof, wf wof,

for all that he said, or perceptibly did, on the at last sunny deck,
wof wof woof wf woof, wf wooooooooof wof, wf wof wf woof wooof woof,

he seemed as unnecessary there as another mast. But the Pequod was
wf woooof wf wooooooooof wooof wf wooooof woof. Wof wof Woooof wof

only making a passage now; not regularly cruising; nearly all whaling
woof woooof w wooooof wof; wof wooooooof woooooof; woooof wof wooooof

preparatives needing supervision the mates were fully competent to, so
woooooooooof wooooof wooooooooof wof wooof woof wooof wooooooof wf, wf

that there was little or nothing, out of himself, to employ or excite
woof wooof wof woooof wf wooooof, wof wf wooooof, wf woooof wf woooof

Ahab, now; and thus chase away, for that one interval, the clouds that
Woof, wof; wof woof wooof woof, wof woof wof woooooof, wof woooof woof

layer upon layer were piled upon his brow, as ever all clouds choose the
wooof woof wooof woof wooof woof wof woof, wf woof wof woooof woooof wof

loftiest peaks to pile themselves upon.
woooooof wooof wf woof woooooooof woof.




Nevertheless, ere long, the warm, warbling persuasiveness of the
Woooooooooof, wof woof, wof woof, woooooof woooooooooooof wf wof

pleasant, holiday weather we came to, seemed gradually to charm him from
woooooof, wooooof wooooof wf woof wf, woooof wooooooof wf wooof wof woof

his mood. For, as when the red-cheeked, dancing girls, April and May,
wof woof. Wof, wf woof wof wof-wooooof, wooooof wooof, Wooof wof Wof,

trip home to the wintry, misanthropic woods; even the barest, ruggedest,
woof woof wf wof woooof, woooooooooof wooof; woof wof woooof, wooooooof,

most thunder-cloven old oak will at least send forth some few green
woof wooooof-woooof wof wof woof wf wooof woof wooof woof wof wooof

sprouts, to welcome such glad-hearted visitants; so Ahab did, in the
wooooof, wf wooooof woof woof-wooooof wooooooof; wf Woof wof, wf wof

end, a little respond to the playful allurings of that girlish air. More
wof, w woooof wooooof wf wof wooooof wooooooof wf woof wooooof wof. Woof

than once did he put forth the faint blossom of a look, which, in any
woof woof wof wf wof wooof wof wooof wooooof wf w woof, wooof, wf wof

other man, would have soon flowered out in a smile.
wooof wof, wooof woof woof woooooof wof wf w wooof.










CHAPTER 29. Enter Ahab; to Him, Stubb.
WOOOOOF wf. Wooof Woof; wf Wof, Wooof.







Some days elapsed, and ice and icebergs all astern, the Pequod now
Woof woof wooooof, wof wof wof woooooof wof woooof, wof Woooof wof

went rolling through the bright Quito spring, which, at sea, almost
woof wooooof wooooof wof woooof Wooof woooof, wooof, wf wof, woooof

perpetually reigns on the threshold of the eternal August of the Tropic.
wooooooooof woooof wf wof wooooooof wf wof wooooof Woooof wf wof Woooof.

The warmly cool, clear, ringing, perfumed, overflowing, redundant days,
Wof woooof woof, wooof, wooooof, woooooof, wooooooooof, wooooooof woof,

were as crystal goblets of Persian sherbet, heaped up--flaked up, with
woof wf wooooof wooooof wf Wooooof wooooof, woooof wf--woooof wf, woof

rose-water snow. The starred and stately nights seemed haughty dames in
woof-wooof woof. Wof wooooof wof wooooof woooof woooof wooooof wooof wf

jewelled velvets, nursing at home in lonely pride, the memory of their
woooooof wooooof, wooooof wf woof wf woooof wooof, wof woooof wf wooof

absent conquering Earls, the golden helmeted suns! For sleeping man,
woooof woooooooof Wooof, wof woooof woooooof woof! Wof woooooof wof,

'twas hard to choose between such winsome days and such seducing nights.
'woof woof wf woooof wooooof woof wooooof woof wof woof woooooof woooof.

But all the witcheries of that unwaning weather did not merely lend new
Wof wof wof woooooooof wf woof woooooof wooooof wof wof woooof woof wof

spells and potencies to the outward world. Inward they turned upon the
woooof wof wooooooof wf wof wooooof wooof. Woooof woof woooof woof wof

soul, especially when the still mild hours of eve came on; then, memory
woof, woooooooof woof wof wooof woof wooof wf wof woof wf; woof, woooof

shot her crystals as the clear ice most forms of noiseless twilights.
woof wof woooooof wf wof wooof wof woof wooof wf wooooooof wooooooof.

And all these subtle agencies, more and more they wrought on Ahab's
Wof wof wooof woooof woooooof, woof wof woof woof wooooof wf Woof'w

texture.
wooooof.




Old age is always wakeful; as if, the longer linked with life, the less
Wof wof wf woooof wooooof; wf wf, wof woooof woooof woof woof, wof woof

man has to do with aught that looks like death. Among sea-commanders,
wof wof wf wf woof wooof woof wooof woof wooof. Wooof wof-woooooooof,

the old greybeards will oftenest leave their berths to visit the
wof wof woooooooof woof woooooof wooof wooof woooof wf wooof wof

night-cloaked deck. It was so with Ahab; only that now, of late, he
wooof-wooooof woof. Wf wof wf woof Woof; woof woof wof, wf woof, wf

seemed so much to live in the open air, that truly speaking, his visits
woooof wf woof wf woof wf wof woof wof, woof wooof woooooof, wof woooof

were more to the cabin, than from the cabin to the planks. "It feels
woof woof wf wof wooof, woof woof wof wooof wf wof woooof. "Wf wooof

like going down into one's tomb,"--he would mutter to himself--"for an
woof wooof woof woof wof'w woof,"--wf wooof woooof wf wooooof--"wof wf

old captain like me to be descending this narrow scuttle, to go to my
wof wooooof woof wf wf wf woooooooof woof woooof wooooof, wf wf wf wf

grave-dug berth."
wooof-wof wooof."




So, almost every twenty-four hours, when the watches of the night were
Wf, woooof wooof woooof-woof wooof, woof wof wooooof wf wof wooof woof

set, and the band on deck sentinelled the slumbers of the band below;
wof, wof wof woof wf woof wooooooooof wof woooooof wf wof woof wooof;

and when if a rope was to be hauled upon the forecastle, the sailors
wof woof wf w woof wof wf wf woooof woof wof woooooooof, wof wooooof

flung it not rudely down, as by day, but with some cautiousness dropt
wooof wf wof woooof woof, wf wf wof, wof woof woof woooooooooof wooof

it to its place for fear of disturbing their slumbering shipmates; when
wf wf wof wooof wof woof wf woooooooof wooof woooooooof wooooooof; woof

this sort of steady quietude would begin to prevail, habitually, the
woof woof wf woooof woooooof wooof wooof wf wooooof, woooooooof, wof

silent steersman would watch the cabin-scuttle; and ere long the old man
woooof wooooooof wooof wooof wof wooof-wooooof; wof wof woof wof wof wof

would emerge, gripping at the iron banister, to help his crippled way.
wooof woooof, woooooof wf wof woof woooooof, wf woof wof woooooof wof.

Some considering touch of humanity was in him; for at times like these,
Woof wooooooooof wooof wf woooooof wof wf wof; wof wf wooof woof wooof,

he usually abstained from patrolling the quarter-deck; because to his
wf wooooof wooooooof woof woooooooof wof wooooof-woof; wooooof wf wof

wearied mates, seeking repose within six inches of his ivory heel, such
wooooof wooof, wooooof woooof woooof wof woooof wf wof wooof woof, woof

would have been the reverberating crack and din of that bony step, that
wooof woof woof wof wooooooooooof wooof wof wof wf woof woof woof, woof

their dreams would have been on the crunching teeth of sharks. But once,
wooof woooof wooof woof woof wf wof wooooooof wooof wf woooof. Wof woof,

the mood was on him too deep for common regardings; and as with heavy,
wof woof wof wf wof wof woof wof woooof woooooooof; wof wf woof wooof,

lumber-like pace he was measuring the ship from taffrail to mainmast,
woooof-woof woof wf wof wooooooof wof woof woof woooooof wf woooooof,

Stubb, the old second mate, came up from below, with a certain
Wooof, wof wof woooof woof, woof wf woof wooof, woof w wooooof

unassured, deprecating humorousness, hinted that if Captain Ahab was
wooooooof, wooooooooof woooooooooof, woooof woof wf Wooooof Woof wof

pleased to walk the planks, then, no one could say nay; but there might
wooooof wf woof wof woooof, woof, wf wof wooof wof wof; wof wooof wooof

be some way of muffling the noise; hinting something indistinctly and
wf woof wof wf woooooof wof wooof; wooooof wooooooof woooooooooof wof

hesitatingly about a globe of tow, and the insertion into it, of the
woooooooooof wooof w wooof wf wof, wof wof wooooooof woof wf, wf wof

ivory heel. Ah! Stubb, thou didst not know Ahab then.
wooof woof. Wf! Wooof, woof wooof wof woof Woof woof.




"Am I a cannon-ball, Stubb," said Ahab, "that thou wouldst wad me that
"Wf W w woooof-woof, Wooof," woof Woof, "woof woof wooooof wof wf woof

fashion? But go thy ways; I had forgot. Below to thy nightly grave;
wooooof? Wof wf wof woof; W wof woooof. Wooof wf wof wooooof wooof;

where such as ye sleep between shrouds, to use ye to the filling one at
wooof woof wf wf wooof wooooof wooooof, wf wof wf wf wof wooooof wof wf

last.--Down, dog, and kennel!"
woof.--Woof, wof, wof woooof!"




Starting at the unforseen concluding exclamation of the so suddenly
Woooooof wf wof wooooooof woooooooof wooooooooof wf wof wf woooooof

scornful old man, Stubb was speechless a moment; then said excitedly, "I
woooooof wof wof, Wooof wof woooooooof w woooof; woof woof wooooooof, "W

am not used to be spoken to that way, sir; I do but less than half like
wf wof woof wf wf woooof wf woof wof, wof; W wf wof woof woof woof woof

it, sir."
wf, wof."




"Avast! gritted Ahab between his set teeth, and violently moving away,
"Wooof! wooooof Woof wooooof wof wof wooof, wof wooooooof woooof woof,

as if to avoid some passionate temptation.
wf wf wf wooof woof woooooooof woooooooof.




"No, sir; not yet," said Stubb, emboldened, "I will not tamely be called
"Wf, wof; wof wof," woof Wooof, woooooooof, "W woof wof woooof wf woooof

a dog, sir."
w wof, wof."




"Then be called ten times a donkey, and a mule, and an ass, and begone,
"Woof wf woooof wof wooof w woooof, wof w woof, wof wf wof, wof woooof,

or I'll clear the world of thee!"
wf W'wf wooof wof wooof wf woof!"




As he said this, Ahab advanced upon him with such overbearing terrors in
Wf wf woof woof, Woof woooooof woof wof woof woof wooooooooof wooooof wf

his aspect, that Stubb involuntarily retreated.
wof woooof, woof Wooof wooooooooooof wooooooof.




"I was never served so before without giving a hard blow for it,"
"W wof wooof woooof wf woooof wooooof woooof w woof woof wof wf,"

muttered Stubb, as he found himself descending the cabin-scuttle. "It's
woooooof Wooof, wf wf wooof wooooof woooooooof wof wooof-wooooof. "Wf'w

very queer. Stop, Stubb; somehow, now, I don't well know whether to go
woof wooof. Woof, Wooof; wooooof, wof, W wof'w woof woof wooooof wf wf

back and strike him, or--what's that?--down here on my knees and pray
woof wof woooof wof, wf--woof'w woof?--woof woof wf wf wooof wof woof

for him? Yes, that was the thought coming up in me; but it would be the
wof wof? Wof, woof wof wof wooooof woooof wf wf wf; wof wf wooof wf wof

first time I ever DID pray. It's queer; very queer; and he's queer too;
wooof woof W woof WOF woof. Wf'w wooof; woof wooof; wof wf'w wooof wof;

aye, take him fore and aft, he's about the queerest old man Stubb ever
wof, woof wof woof wof wof, wf'w wooof wof woooooof wof wof Wooof woof

sailed with. How he flashed at me!--his eyes like powder-pans! is he
woooof woof. Wof wf wooooof wf wf!--wof woof woof woooof-woof! wf wf

mad? Anyway there's something on his mind, as sure as there must be
wof? Woooof wooof'w wooooooof wf wof woof, wf woof wf wooof woof wf

something on a deck when it cracks. He aint in his bed now, either, more
wooooooof wf w woof woof wf woooof. Wf woof wf wof wof wof, woooof, woof

than three hours out of the twenty-four; and he don't sleep then. Didn't
woof wooof wooof wof wf wof woooof-woof; wof wf wof'w wooof woof. Woof'w

that Dough-Boy, the steward, tell me that of a morning he always finds
woof Wooof-Wof, wof wooooof, woof wf woof wf w wooooof wf woooof wooof

the old man's hammock clothes all rumpled and tumbled, and the sheets
wof wof wof'w wooooof wooooof wof wooooof wof wooooof, wof wof woooof

down at the foot, and the coverlid almost tied into knots, and the
woof wf wof woof, wof wof woooooof woooof woof woof wooof, wof wof

pillow a sort of frightful hot, as though a baked brick had been on
woooof w woof wf wooooooof wof, wf woooof w wooof wooof wof woof wf

it? A hot old man! I guess he's got what some folks ashore call
wf? W wof wof wof! W wooof wf'w wof woof woof wooof woooof woof

a conscience; it's a kind of Tic-Dolly-row they say--worse nor a
w woooooooof; wf'w w woof wf Wof-Wooof-wof woof wof--wooof wof w

toothache. Well, well; I don't know what it is, but the Lord keep me
wooooooof. Woof, woof; W wof'w woof woof wf wf, wof wof Woof woof wf

from catching it. He's full of riddles; I wonder what he goes into the
woof woooooof wf. Wf'w woof wf wooooof; W woooof woof wf woof woof wof

after hold for, every night, as Dough-Boy tells me he suspects; what's
wooof woof wof, wooof wooof, wf Wooof-Wof wooof wf wf woooooof; woof'w

that for, I should like to know? Who's made appointments with him in
woof wof, W woooof woof wf woof? Wof'w woof woooooooooof woof wof wf

the hold? Ain't that queer, now? But there's no telling, it's the old
wof woof? Wof'w woof wooof, wof? Wof wooof'w wf wooooof, wf'w wof wof

game--Here goes for a snooze. Damn me, it's worth a fellow's while to be
woof--Woof woof wof w woooof. Woof wf, wf'w wooof w woooof'w wooof wf wf

born into the world, if only to fall right asleep. And now that I think
woof woof wof wooof, wf woof wf woof wooof woooof. Wof wof woof W wooof

of it, that's about the first thing babies do, and that's a sort of
wf wf, woof'w wooof wof wooof wooof woooof wf, wof woof'w w woof wf

queer, too. Damn me, but all things are queer, come to think of 'em. But
wooof, wof. Woof wf, wof wof woooof wof wooof, woof wf wooof wf 'wf. Wof

that's against my principles. Think not, is my eleventh commandment; and
woof'w wooooof wf woooooooof. Wooof wof, wf wf woooooof wooooooooof; wof

sleep when you can, is my twelfth--So here goes again. But how's that?
wooof woof wof wof, wf wf wooooof--Wf woof woof wooof. Wof wof'w woof?

didn't he call me a dog? blazes! he called me ten times a donkey, and
woof'w wf woof wf w wof? woooof! wf woooof wf wof wooof w woooof, wof

piled a lot of jackasses on top of THAT! He might as well have kicked
wooof w wof wf wooooooof wf wof wf WOOF! Wf wooof wf woof woof woooof

me, and done with it. Maybe he DID kick me, and I didn't observe it,
wf, wof woof woof wf. Wooof wf WOF woof wf, wof W woof'w wooooof wf,

I was so taken all aback with his brow, somehow. It flashed like a
W wof wf wooof wof wooof woof wof woof, wooooof. Wf wooooof woof w

bleached bone. What the devil's the matter with me? I don't stand right
woooooof woof. Woof wof wooof'w wof woooof woof wf? W wof'w wooof wooof

on my legs. Coming afoul of that old man has a sort of turned me wrong
wf wf woof. Woooof wooof wf woof wof wof wof w woof wf woooof wf wooof

side out. By the Lord, I must have been dreaming, though--How? how?
woof wof. Wf wof Woof, W woof woof woof woooooof, woooof--Wof? wof?

how?--but the only way's to stash it; so here goes to hammock again;
wof?--wof wof woof wof'w wf wooof wf; wf woof woof wf wooooof wooof;

and in the morning, I'll see how this plaguey juggling thinks over by
wof wf wof wooooof, W'wf wof wof woof wooooof woooooof woooof woof wf

daylight."
woooooof."










CHAPTER 30. The Pipe.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Woof.







When Stubb had departed, Ahab stood for a while leaning over the
Woof Wooof wof woooooof, Woof wooof wof w wooof wooooof woof wof

bulwarks; and then, as had been usual with him of late, calling a sailor
woooooof; wof woof, wf wof woof wooof woof wof wf woof, wooooof w woooof

of the watch, he sent him below for his ivory stool, and also his pipe.
wf wof wooof, wf woof wof wooof wof wof wooof wooof, wof woof wof woof.

Lighting the pipe at the binnacle lamp and planting the stool on the
Woooooof wof woof wf wof woooooof woof wof woooooof wof wooof wf wof

weather side of the deck, he sat and smoked.
wooooof woof wf wof woof, wf wof wof woooof.




In old Norse times, the thrones of the sea-loving Danish kings were
Wf wof Wooof wooof, wof wooooof wf wof wof-woooof Woooof wooof woof

fabricated, saith tradition, of the tusks of the narwhale. How could one
woooooooof, wooof wooooooof, wf wof wooof wf wof woooooof. Wof wooof wof

look at Ahab then, seated on that tripod of bones, without bethinking
woof wf Woof woof, woooof wf woof woooof wf wooof, wooooof woooooooof

him of the royalty it symbolized? For a Khan of the plank, and a king of
wof wf wof wooooof wf woooooooof? Wof w Woof wf wof wooof, wof w woof wf

the sea, and a great lord of Leviathans was Ahab.
wof wof, wof w wooof woof wf Woooooooof wof Woof.




Some moments passed, during which the thick vapour came from his mouth
Woof wooooof woooof, woooof wooof wof wooof woooof woof woof wof wooof

in quick and constant puffs, which blew back again into his face. "How
wf wooof wof woooooof wooof, wooof woof woof wooof woof wof woof. "Wof

now," he soliloquized at last, withdrawing the tube, "this smoking no
wof," wf woooooooooof wf woof, wooooooooof wof woof, "woof wooooof wf

longer soothes. Oh, my pipe! hard must it go with me if thy charm be
woooof wooooof. Wf, wf woof! woof woof wf wf woof wf wf wof wooof wf

gone! Here have I been unconsciously toiling, not pleasuring--aye, and
woof! Woof woof W woof wooooooooooof wooooof, wof woooooooof--wof, wof

ignorantly smoking to windward all the while; to windward, and with
woooooooof wooooof wf woooooof wof wof wooof; wf woooooof, wof woof

such nervous whiffs, as if, like the dying whale, my final jets were the
woof wooooof woooof, wf wf, woof wof wooof wooof, wf wooof woof woof wof

strongest and fullest of trouble. What business have I with this pipe?
wooooooof wof wooooof wf wooooof. Woof woooooof woof W woof woof woof?

This thing that is meant for sereneness, to send up mild white vapours
Woof wooof woof wf wooof wof woooooooof, wf woof wf woof wooof wooooof

among mild white hairs, not among torn iron-grey locks like mine. I'll
wooof woof wooof wooof, wof wooof woof woof-woof wooof woof woof. W'wf

smoke no more--"
wooof wf woof--"




He tossed the still lighted pipe into the sea. The fire hissed in the
Wf woooof wof wooof wooooof woof woof wof wof. Wof woof woooof wf wof

waves; the same instant the ship shot by the bubble the sinking pipe
wooof; wof woof wooooof wof woof woof wf wof woooof wof wooooof woof

made. With slouched hat, Ahab lurchingly paced the planks.
woof. Woof woooooof wof, Woof woooooooof wooof wof woooof.










CHAPTER 31. Queen Mab.
WOOOOOF wf. Wooof Wof.







Next morning Stubb accosted Flask.
Woof wooooof Wooof woooooof Wooof.




"Such a queer dream, King-Post, I never had. You know the old man's
"Woof w wooof wooof, Woof-Woof, W wooof wof. Wof woof wof wof wof'w

ivory leg, well I dreamed he kicked me with it; and when I tried to kick
wooof wof, woof W wooooof wf woooof wf woof wf; wof woof W wooof wf woof

back, upon my soul, my little man, I kicked my leg right off! And then,
woof, woof wf woof, wf woooof wof, W woooof wf wof wooof wof! Wof woof,

presto! Ahab seemed a pyramid, and I, like a blazing fool, kept kicking
woooof! Woof woooof w wooooof, wof W, woof w wooooof woof, woof wooooof

at it. But what was still more curious, Flask--you know how curious all
wf wf. Wof woof wof wooof woof wooooof, Wooof--wof woof wof wooooof wof

dreams are--through all this rage that I was in, I somehow seemed to be
woooof wof--wooooof wof woof woof woof W wof wf, W wooooof woooof wf wf

thinking to myself, that after all, it was not much of an insult, that
woooooof wf woooof, woof wooof wof, wf wof wof woof wf wf woooof, woof

kick from Ahab. 'Why,' thinks I, 'what's the row? It's not a real leg,
woof woof Woof. 'Wof,' woooof W, 'woof'w wof wof? Wf'w wof w woof wof,

only a false leg.' And there's a mighty difference between a living
woof w wooof wof.' Wof wooof'w w woooof woooooooof wooooof w woooof

thump and a dead thump. That's what makes a blow from the hand, Flask,
wooof wof w woof wooof. Woof'w woof wooof w woof woof wof woof, Wooof,

fifty times more savage to bear than a blow from a cane. The living
wooof wooof woof woooof wf woof woof w woof woof w woof. Wof woooof

member--that makes the living insult, my little man. And thinks I to
woooof--woof wooof wof woooof woooof, wf woooof wof. Wof woooof W wf

myself all the while, mind, while I was stubbing my silly toes against
woooof wof wof wooof, woof, wooof W wof woooooof wf wooof woof wooooof

that cursed pyramid--so confoundedly contradictory was it all, all
woof woooof wooooof--wf woooooooooof wooooooooooof wof wf wof, wof

the while, I say, I was thinking to myself, 'what's his leg now, but
wof wooof, W wof, W wof woooooof wf woooof, 'woof'w wof wof wof, wof

a cane--a whalebone cane. Yes,' thinks I, 'it was only a playful
w woof--w wooooooof woof. Wof,' woooof W, 'wf wof woof w wooooof

cudgelling--in fact, only a whaleboning that he gave me--not a base
woooooooof--wf woof, woof w wooooooooof woof wf woof wf--wof w woof

kick. Besides,' thinks I, 'look at it once; why, the end of it--the foot
woof. Wooooof,' woooof W, 'woof wf wf woof; wof, wof wof wf wf--wof woof

part--what a small sort of end it is; whereas, if a broad footed farmer
woof--woof w wooof woof wf wof wf wf; wooooof, wf w wooof woooof woooof

kicked me, THERE'S a devilish broad insult. But this insult is whittled
woooof wf, WOOOF'W w woooooof wooof woooof. Wof woof woooof wf woooooof

down to a point only.' But now comes the greatest joke of the
woof wf w wooof woof.' Wof wof wooof wof woooooof woof wf wof

dream, Flask. While I was battering away at the pyramid, a sort of
wooof, Wooof. Wooof W wof wooooooof woof wf wof wooooof, w woof wf

badger-haired old merman, with a hump on his back, takes me by the
woooof-woooof wof woooof, woof w woof wf wof woof, wooof wf wf wof

shoulders, and slews me round. 'What are you 'bout?' says he. Slid! man,
wooooooof, wof wooof wf wooof. 'Woof wof wof 'woof?' woof wf. Woof! wof,

but I was frightened. Such a phiz! But, somehow, next moment I was over
wof W wof woooooooof. Woof w woof! Wof, wooooof, woof woooof W wof woof

the fright. 'What am I about?' says I at last. 'And what business is
wof woooof. 'Woof wf W wooof?' woof W wf woof. 'Wof woof woooooof wf

that of yours, I should like to know, Mr. Humpback? Do YOU want a kick?'
woof wf wooof, W woooof woof wf woof, Wf. Woooooof? Wf WOF woof w woof?'

By the lord, Flask, I had no sooner said that, than he turned round his
Wf wof woof, Wooof, W wof wf woooof woof woof, woof wf woooof wooof wof

stern to me, bent over, and dragging up a lot of seaweed he had for a
wooof wf wf, woof woof, wof woooooof wf w wof wf wooooof wf wof wof w

clout--what do you think, I saw?--why thunder alive, man, his stern
wooof--woof wf wof wooof, W wof?--wof wooooof wooof, wof, wof wooof

was stuck full of marlinspikes, with the points out. Says I, on second
wof wooof woof wf woooooooooof, woof wof woooof wof. Woof W, wf woooof

thoughts, 'I guess I won't kick you, old fellow.' 'Wise Stubb,' said he,
woooooof, 'W wooof W wof'w woof wof, wof woooof.' 'Woof Wooof,' woof wf,

'wise Stubb;' and kept muttering it all the time, a sort of eating of
'woof Wooof;' wof woof wooooooof wf wof wof woof, w woof wf woooof wf

his own gums like a chimney hag. Seeing he wasn't going to stop saying
wof wof woof woof w wooooof wof. Woooof wf woof'w wooof wf woof woooof

over his 'wise Stubb, wise Stubb,' I thought I might as well fall to
woof wof 'woof Wooof, woof Wooof,' W wooooof W wooof wf woof woof wf

kicking the pyramid again. But I had only just lifted my foot for it,
wooooof wof wooooof wooof. Wof W wof woof woof woooof wf woof wof wf,

when he roared out, 'Stop that kicking!' 'Halloa,' says I, 'what's
woof wf woooof wof, 'Woof woof wooooof!' 'Woooof,' woof W, 'woof'w

the matter now, old fellow?' 'Look ye here,' says he; 'let's argue
wof woooof wof, wof woooof?' 'Woof wf woof,' woof wf; 'wof'w wooof

the insult. Captain Ahab kicked ye, didn't he?' 'Yes, he did,' says
wof woooof. Wooooof Woof woooof wf, woof'w wf?' 'Wof, wf wof,' woof

I--'right HERE it was.' 'Very good,' says he--'he used his ivory leg,
W--'wooof WOOF wf wof.' 'Woof woof,' woof wf--'wf woof wof wooof wof,

didn't he?' 'Yes, he did,' says I. 'Well then,' says he, 'wise Stubb,
woof'w wf?' 'Wof, wf wof,' woof W. 'Woof woof,' woof wf, 'woof Wooof,

what have you to complain of? Didn't he kick with right good will? it
woof woof wof wf woooooof wf? Woof'w wf woof woof wooof woof woof? wf

wasn't a common pitch pine leg he kicked with, was it? No, you were
woof'w w woooof wooof woof wof wf woooof woof, wof wf? Wf, wof woof

kicked by a great man, and with a beautiful ivory leg, Stubb. It's an
woooof wf w wooof wof, wof woof w wooooooof wooof wof, Wooof. Wf'w wf

honour; I consider it an honour. Listen, wise Stubb. In old England the
woooof; W woooooof wf wf woooof. Woooof, woof Wooof. Wf wof Wooooof wof

greatest lords think it great glory to be slapped by a queen, and made
woooooof wooof wooof wf wooof wooof wf wf wooooof wf w wooof, wof woof

garter-knights of; but, be YOUR boast, Stubb, that ye were kicked by
woooof-wooooof wf; wof, wf WOOF wooof, Wooof, woof wf woof woooof wf

old Ahab, and made a wise man of. Remember what I say; BE kicked by him;
wof Woof, wof woof w woof wof wf. Woooooof woof W wof; WF woooof wf wof;

account his kicks honours; and on no account kick back; for you can't
wooooof wof wooof wooooof; wof wf wf wooooof woof woof; wof wof wof'w

help yourself, wise Stubb. Don't you see that pyramid?' With that, he
woof woooooof, woof Wooof. Wof'w wof wof woof wooooof?' Woof woof, wf

all of a sudden seemed somehow, in some queer fashion, to swim off into
wof wf w woooof woooof wooooof, wf woof wooof wooooof, wf woof wof woof

the air. I snored; rolled over; and there I was in my hammock! Now, what
wof wof. W woooof; woooof woof; wof wooof W wof wf wf wooooof! Wof, woof

do you think of that dream, Flask?"
wf wof wooof wf woof wooof, Wooof?"




"I don't know; it seems a sort of foolish to me, tho.'"
"W wof'w woof; wf wooof w woof wf wooooof wf wf, wof.'"




"May be; may be. But it's made a wise man of me, Flask. D'ye see Ahab
"Wof wf; wof wf. Wof wf'w woof w woof wof wf wf, Wooof. W'wf wof Woof

standing there, sideways looking over the stern? Well, the best thing
woooooof wooof, woooooof wooooof woof wof wooof? Woof, wof woof wooof

you can do, Flask, is to let the old man alone; never speak to him,
wof wof wf, Wooof, wf wf wof wof wof wof wooof; wooof wooof wf wof,

whatever he says. Halloa! What's that he shouts? Hark!"
woooooof wf woof. Woooof! Woof'w woof wf woooof? Woof!"




"Mast-head, there! Look sharp, all of ye! There are whales hereabouts!
"Woof-woof, wooof! Woof wooof, wof wf wf! Wooof wof woooof woooooooof!




"If ye see a white one, split your lungs for him!
"Wf wf wof w wooof wof, wooof woof wooof wof wof!




"What do you think of that now, Flask? ain't there a small drop of
"Woof wf wof wooof wf woof wof, Wooof? wof'w wooof w wooof woof wf

something queer about that, eh? A white whale--did ye mark that, man?
wooooooof wooof wooof woof, wf? W wooof wooof--wof wf woof woof, wof?

Look ye--there's something special in the wind. Stand by for it, Flask.
Woof wf--wooof'w wooooooof wooooof wf wof woof. Wooof wf wof wf, Wooof.

Ahab has that that's bloody on his mind. But, mum; he comes this way."
Woof wof woof woof'w woooof wf wof woof. Wof, wof; wf wooof woof wof."










CHAPTER 32. Cetology.
WOOOOOF wf. Woooooof.







Already we are boldly launched upon the deep; but soon we shall be lost
Wooooof wf wof woooof woooooof woof wof woof; wof woof wf wooof wf woof

in its unshored, harbourless immensities. Ere that come to pass; ere the
wf wof woooooof, wooooooooof wooooooooof. Wof woof woof wf woof; wof wof

Pequod's weedy hull rolls side by side with the barnacled hulls of the
Woooof'w wooof woof wooof woof wf woof woof wof wooooooof wooof wf wof

leviathan; at the outset it is but well to attend to a matter almost
wooooooof; wf wof woooof wf wf wof woof wf woooof wf w woooof woooof

indispensable to a thorough appreciative understanding of the more
wooooooooooof wf w woooooof woooooooooof wooooooooooof wf wof woof

special leviathanic revelations and allusions of all sorts which are to
wooooof wooooooooof wooooooooof wof wooooooof wf wof wooof wooof wof wf

follow.
woooof.




It is some systematized exhibition of the whale in his broad genera,
Wf wf woof woooooooooof woooooooof wf wof wooof wf wof wooof woooof,

that I would now fain put before you. Yet is it no easy task. The
woof W wooof wof woof wof woooof wof. Wof wf wf wf woof woof. Wof

classification of the constituents of a chaos, nothing less is here
woooooooooooof wf wof woooooooooof wf w wooof, wooooof woof wf woof

essayed. Listen to what the best and latest authorities have laid down.
wooooof. Woooof wf woof wof woof wof woooof wooooooooof woof woof woof.




"No branch of Zoology is so much involved as that which is entitled
"Wf woooof wf Wooooof wf wf woof woooooof wf woof wooof wf woooooof

Cetology," says Captain Scoresby, A.D. 1820.
Woooooof," woof Wooooof Woooooof, W.W. woof.




"It is not my intention, were it in my power, to enter into the
"Wf wf wof wf wooooooof, woof wf wf wf wooof, wf wooof woof wof

inquiry as to the true method of dividing the cetacea into groups and
wooooof wf wf wof woof woooof wf woooooof wof wooooof woof woooof wof

families.... Utter confusion exists among the historians of this animal"
woooooof.... Wooof wooooooof woooof wooof wof woooooooof wf woof woooof"

(sperm whale), says Surgeon Beale, A.D. 1839.
(wooof wooof), woof Wooooof Wooof, W.W. woof.




"Unfitness to pursue our research in the unfathomable waters."
"Wooooooof wf woooof wof woooooof wf wof woooooooooof woooof."

"Impenetrable veil covering our knowledge of the cetacea." "A field
"Woooooooooof woof woooooof wof wooooooof wf wof wooooof." "W wooof

strewn with thorns." "All these incomplete indications but serve to
woooof woof woooof." "Wof wooof woooooooof wooooooooof wof wooof wf

torture us naturalists."
wooooof wf wooooooooof."




Thus speak of the whale, the great Cuvier, and John Hunter, and Lesson,
Woof wooof wf wof wooof, wof wooof Woooof, wof Woof Woooof, wof Woooof,

those lights of zoology and anatomy. Nevertheless, though of real
wooof woooof wf wooooof wof wooooof. Woooooooooof, woooof wf woof

knowledge there be little, yet of books there are a plenty; and so in
wooooooof wooof wf woooof, wof wf wooof wooof wof w woooof; wof wf wf

some small degree, with cetology, or the science of whales. Many are
woof wooof woooof, woof woooooof, wf wof wooooof wf woooof. Woof wof

the men, small and great, old and new, landsmen and seamen, who have at
wof wof, wooof wof wooof, wof wof wof, woooooof wof woooof, wof woof wf

large or in little, written of the whale. Run over a few:--The Authors
wooof wf wf woooof, wooooof wf wof wooof. Wof woof w wof:--Wof Wooooof

of the Bible; Aristotle; Pliny; Aldrovandi; Sir Thomas Browne; Gesner;
wf wof Wooof; Wooooooof; Wooof; Woooooooof; Wof Woooof Woooof; Woooof;

Ray; Linnaeus; Rondeletius; Willoughby; Green; Artedi; Sibbald; Brisson;
Wof; Woooooof; Wooooooooof; Woooooooof; Wooof; Woooof; Wooooof; Wooooof;

Marten; Lacepede; Bonneterre; Desmarest; Baron Cuvier; Frederick Cuvier;
Woooof; Woooooof; Woooooooof; Wooooooof; Wooof Woooof; Wooooooof Woooof;

John Hunter; Owen; Scoresby; Beale; Bennett; J. Ross Browne; the
Woof Woooof; Woof; Woooooof; Wooof; Wooooof; W. Woof Woooof; wof

Author of Miriam Coffin; Olmstead; and the Rev. T. Cheever. But to what
Woooof wf Woooof Woooof; Woooooof; wof wof Wof. W. Wooooof. Wof wf woof

ultimate generalizing purpose all these have written, the above cited
woooooof woooooooooof wooooof wof wooof woof wooooof, wof wooof wooof

extracts will show.
woooooof woof woof.




Of the names in this list of whale authors, only those following Owen
Wf wof wooof wf woof woof wf wooof wooooof, woof wooof wooooooof Woof

ever saw living whales; and but one of them was a real professional
woof wof woooof woooof; wof wof wof wf woof wof w woof woooooooooof

harpooneer and whaleman. I mean Captain Scoresby. On the separate
woooooooof wof woooooof. W woof Wooooof Woooooof. Wf wof woooooof

subject of the Greenland or right-whale, he is the best existing
wooooof wf wof Wooooooof wf wooof-wooof, wf wf wof woof woooooof

authority. But Scoresby knew nothing and says nothing of the great
wooooooof. Wof Woooooof woof wooooof wof woof wooooof wf wof wooof

sperm whale, compared with which the Greenland whale is almost unworthy
wooof wooof, woooooof woof wooof wof Wooooooof wooof wf woooof woooooof

mentioning. And here be it said, that the Greenland whale is an usurper
woooooooof. Wof woof wf wf woof, woof wof Wooooooof wooof wf wf wooooof

upon the throne of the seas. He is not even by any means the largest
woof wof woooof wf wof woof. Wf wf wof woof wf wof wooof wof wooooof

of the whales. Yet, owing to the long priority of his claims, and the
wf wof woooof. Wof, wooof wf wof woof woooooof wf wof woooof, wof wof

profound ignorance which, till some seventy years back, invested the
woooooof wooooooof wooof, woof woof wooooof wooof woof, woooooof wof

then fabulous or utterly unknown sperm-whale, and which ignorance to
woof woooooof wf wooooof wooooof wooof-wooof, wof wooof wooooooof wf

this present day still reigns in all but some few scientific retreats
woof wooooof wof wooof woooof wf wof wof woof wof woooooooof woooooof

and whale-ports; this usurpation has been every way complete. Reference
wof wooof-wooof; woof woooooooof wof woof wooof wof woooooof. Wooooooof

to nearly all the leviathanic allusions in the great poets of past days,
wf woooof wof wof wooooooooof wooooooof wf wof wooof wooof wf woof woof,

will satisfy you that the Greenland whale, without one rival, was to
woof wooooof wof woof wof Wooooooof wooof, wooooof wof wooof, wof wf

them the monarch of the seas. But the time has at last come for a new
woof wof wooooof wf wof woof. Wof wof woof wof wf woof woof wof w wof

proclamation. This is Charing Cross; hear ye! good people all,--the
woooooooooof. Woof wf Wooooof Wooof; woof wf! woof woooof wof,--wof

Greenland whale is deposed,--the great sperm whale now reigneth!
Wooooooof wooof wf wooooof,--wof wooof wooof wooof wof woooooof!




There are only two books in being which at all pretend to put the living
Wooof wof woof wof wooof wf wooof wooof wf wof wooooof wf wof wof woooof

sperm whale before you, and at the same time, in the remotest degree
wooof wooof woooof wof, wof wf wof woof woof, wf wof woooooof woooof

succeed in the attempt. Those books are Beale's and Bennett's; both in
wooooof wf wof wooooof. Wooof wooof wof Wooof'w wof Wooooof'w; woof wf

their time surgeons to English South-Sea whale-ships, and both exact and
wooof woof woooooof wf Wooooof Wooof-Wof wooof-wooof, wof woof wooof wof

reliable men. The original matter touching the sperm whale to be found
woooooof wof. Wof woooooof woooof woooooof wof wooof wooof wf wf wooof

in their volumes is necessarily small; but so far as it goes, it is of
wf wooof wooooof wf wooooooooof wooof; wof wf wof wf wf woof, wf wf wf

excellent quality, though mostly confined to scientific description. As
wooooooof wooooof, woooof woooof woooooof wf woooooooof wooooooooof. Wf

yet, however, the sperm whale, scientific or poetic, lives not complete
wof, wooooof, wof wooof wooof, woooooooof wf woooof, wooof wof woooooof

in any literature. Far above all other hunted whales, his is an
wf wof woooooooof. Wof wooof wof wooof woooof woooof, wof wf wf

unwritten life.
wooooooof woof.




Now the various species of whales need some sort of popular
Wof wof wooooof wooooof wf woooof woof woof woof wf wooooof

comprehensive classification, if only an easy outline one for the
wooooooooooof woooooooooooof, wf woof wf woof wooooof wof wof wof

present, hereafter to be filled in all its departments by subsequent
wooooof, wooooooof wf wf woooof wf wof wof wooooooooof wf woooooooof

laborers. As no better man advances to take this matter in hand, I
woooooof. Wf wf woooof wof woooooof wf woof woof woooof wf woof, W

hereupon offer my own poor endeavors. I promise nothing complete;
woooooof wooof wf wof woof wooooooof. W wooooof wooooof woooooof;

because any human thing supposed to be complete, must for that very
wooooof wof wooof wooof woooooof wf wf woooooof, woof wof woof woof

reason infallibly be faulty. I shall not pretend to a minute anatomical
woooof woooooooof wf woooof. W wooof wof wooooof wf w woooof woooooooof

description of the various species, or--in this place at least--to much
wooooooooof wf wof wooooof wooooof, wf--wf woof wooof wf wooof--wf woof

of any description. My object here is simply to project the draught of a
wf wof wooooooooof. Wf woooof woof wf woooof wf wooooof wof wooooof wf w

systematization of cetology. I am the architect, not the builder.
wooooooooooooof wf woooooof. W wf wof wooooooof, wof wof wooooof.




But it is a ponderous task; no ordinary letter-sorter in the Post-Office
Wof wf wf w wooooooof woof; wf woooooof woooof-woooof wf wof Woof-Woooof

is equal to it. To grope down into the bottom of the sea after them;
wf wooof wf wf. Wf wooof woof woof wof woooof wf wof wof wooof woof;

to have one's hands among the unspeakable foundations, ribs, and very
wf woof wof'w wooof wooof wof wooooooooof wooooooooof, woof, wof woof

pelvis of the world; this is a fearful thing. What am I that I should
woooof wf wof wooof; woof wf w wooooof wooof. Woof wf W woof W woooof

essay to hook the nose of this leviathan! The awful tauntings in Job
wooof wf woof wof woof wf woof wooooooof! Wof wooof wooooooof wf Wof

might well appal me. Will he the (leviathan) make a covenant with thee?
wooof woof wooof wf. Woof wf wof (wooooooof) woof w woooooof woof woof?

Behold the hope of him is vain! But I have swam through libraries and
Woooof wof woof wf wof wf woof! Wof W woof woof wooooof wooooooof wof

sailed through oceans; I have had to do with whales with these visible
woooof wooooof woooof; W woof wof wf wf woof woooof woof wooof wooooof

hands; I am in earnest; and I will try. There are some preliminaries to
wooof; W wf wf wooooof; wof W woof wof. Wooof wof woof wooooooooooof wf

settle.
woooof.




First: The uncertain, unsettled condition of this science of Cetology
Wooof: Wof wooooooof, wooooooof wooooooof wf woof wooooof wf Woooooof

is in the very vestibule attested by the fact, that in some quarters it
wf wf wof woof wooooooof woooooof wf wof woof, woof wf woof woooooof wf

still remains a moot point whether a whale be a fish. In his System of
wooof wooooof w woof wooof wooooof w wooof wf w woof. Wf wof Woooof wf

Nature, A.D. 1776, Linnaeus declares, "I hereby separate the whales from
Woooof, W.W. woof, Woooooof woooooof, "W woooof woooooof wof woooof woof

the fish." But of my own knowledge, I know that down to the year 1850,
wof woof." Wof wf wf wof wooooooof, W woof woof woof wf wof woof woof,

sharks and shad, alewives and herring, against Linnaeus's express edict,
woooof wof woof, woooooof wof wooooof, wooooof Woooooof'w wooooof wooof,

were still found dividing the possession of the same seas with the
woof wooof wooof woooooof wof woooooooof wf wof woof woof woof wof

Leviathan.
Wooooooof.




The grounds upon which Linnaeus would fain have banished the whales from
Wof wooooof woof wooof Woooooof wooof woof woof woooooof wof woooof woof

the waters, he states as follows: "On account of their warm bilocular
wof woooof, wf woooof wf wooooof: "Wf wooooof wf wooof woof wooooooof

heart, their lungs, their movable eyelids, their hollow ears, penem
wooof, wooof wooof, wooof wooooof wooooof, wooof woooof woof, wooof

intrantem feminam mammis lactantem," and finally, "ex lege naturae jure
wooooooof wooooof woooof wooooooof," wof wooooof, "wf woof wooooof woof

meritoque." I submitted all this to my friends Simeon Macey and Charley
wooooooof." W wooooooof wof woof wf wf wooooof Woooof Wooof wof Wooooof

Coffin, of Nantucket, both messmates of mine in a certain voyage, and
Woooof, wf Wooooooof, woof wooooooof wf woof wf w wooooof woooof, wof

they united in the opinion that the reasons set forth were altogether
woof woooof wf wof wooooof woof wof wooooof wof wooof woof woooooooof

insufficient. Charley profanely hinted they were humbug.
woooooooooof. Wooooof wooooooof woooof woof woof woooof.




Be it known that, waiving all argument, I take the good old fashioned
Wf wf wooof woof, wooooof wof woooooof, W woof wof woof wof wooooooof

ground that the whale is a fish, and call upon holy Jonah to back me.
woooof woof wof wooof wf w woof, wof woof woof woof Wooof wf woof wf.

This fundamental thing settled, the next point is, in what internal
Woof wooooooooof wooof wooooof, wof woof wooof wf, wf woof woooooof

respect does the whale differ from other fish. Above, Linnaeus has given
wooooof woof wof wooof woooof woof wooof woof. Wooof, Woooooof wof wooof

you those items. But in brief, they are these: lungs and warm blood;
wof wooof wooof. Wof wf wooof, woof wof wooof: wooof wof woof wooof;

whereas, all other fish are lungless and cold blooded.
wooooof, wof wooof woof wof woooooof wof woof wooooof.




Next: how shall we define the whale, by his obvious externals, so as
Woof: wof wooof wf woooof wof wooof, wf wof wooooof wooooooof, wf wf

conspicuously to label him for all time to come? To be short, then, a
wooooooooooof wf wooof wof wof wof woof wf woof? Wf wf wooof, woof, w

whale is A SPOUTING FISH WITH A HORIZONTAL TAIL. There you have
wooof wf W WOOOOOOF WOOF WOOF W WOOOOOOOOF WOOF. Wooof wof woof

him. However contracted, that definition is the result of expanded
wof. Wooooof woooooooof, woof woooooooof wf wof woooof wf woooooof

meditation. A walrus spouts much like a whale, but the walrus is not a
woooooooof. W woooof woooof woof woof w wooof, wof wof woooof wf wof w

fish, because he is amphibious. But the last term of the definition is
woof, wooooof wf wf woooooooof. Wof wof woof woof wf wof woooooooof wf

still more cogent, as coupled with the first. Almost any one must have
wooof woof woooof, wf wooooof woof wof wooof. Woooof wof wof woof woof

noticed that all the fish familiar to landsmen have not a flat, but a
wooooof woof wof wof woof woooooof wf woooooof woof wof w woof, wof w

vertical, or up-and-down tail. Whereas, among spouting fish the tail,
woooooof, wf wf-wof-woof woof. Wooooof, wooof woooooof woof wof woof,

though it may be similarly shaped, invariably assumes a horizontal
woooof wf wof wf wooooooof woooof, woooooooof wooooof w woooooooof

position.
woooooof.




By the above definition of what a whale is, I do by no means exclude
Wf wof wooof woooooooof wf woof w wooof wf, W wf wf wf wooof wooooof

from the leviathanic brotherhood any sea creature hitherto identified
woof wof wooooooooof wooooooooof wof wof woooooof woooooof woooooooof

with the whale by the best informed Nantucketers; nor, on the other
woof wof wooof wf wof woof woooooof Woooooooooof; wof, wf wof wooof

hand, link with it any fish hitherto authoritatively regarded as alien.*
woof, woof woof wf wof woof woooooof wooooooooooooof woooooof wf wooof.*

Hence, all the smaller, spouting, and horizontal tailed fish must be
Wooof, wof wof wooooof, woooooof, wof woooooooof woooof woof woof wf

included in this ground-plan of Cetology. Now, then, come the grand
woooooof wf woof woooof-woof wf Woooooof. Wof, woof, woof wof wooof

divisions of the entire whale host.
wooooooof wf wof woooof wooof woof.







*I am aware that down to the present time, the fish styled Lamatins and
*W wf wooof woof woof wf wof wooooof woof, wof woof woooof Woooooof wof

Dugongs (Pig-fish and Sow-fish of the Coffins of Nantucket) are included
Wooooof (Wof-woof wof Wof-woof wf wof Wooooof wf Wooooooof) wof woooooof

by many naturalists among the whales. But as these pig-fish are a noisy,
wf woof wooooooooof wooof wof woooof. Wof wf wooof wof-woof wof w wooof,

contemptible set, mostly lurking in the mouths of rivers, and feeding on
woooooooooof wof, woooof wooooof wf wof woooof wf woooof, wof wooooof wf

wet hay, and especially as they do not spout, I deny their credentials
wof wof, wof woooooooof wf woof wf wof wooof, W woof wooof wooooooooof

as whales; and have presented them with their passports to quit the
wf woooof; wof woof wooooooof woof woof wooof wooooooof wf woof wof

Kingdom of Cetology.
Wooooof wf Woooooof.







First: According to magnitude I divide the whales into three primary
Wooof: Wooooooof wf wooooooof W woooof wof woooof woof wooof wooooof

BOOKS (subdivisible into CHAPTERS), and these shall comprehend them all,
WOOOF (woooooooooof woof WOOOOOOF), wof wooof wooof woooooooof woof wof,

both small and large.
woof wooof wof wooof.




I. THE FOLIO WHALE; II. the OCTAVO WHALE; III. the DUODECIMO WHALE.
W. WOF WOOOF WOOOF; WF. wof WOOOOF WOOOF; WOF. wof WOOOOOOOF WOOOF.




As the type of the FOLIO I present the SPERM WHALE; of the OCTAVO, the
Wf wof woof wf wof WOOOF W wooooof wof WOOOF WOOOF; wf wof WOOOOF, wof

GRAMPUS; of the DUODECIMO, the PORPOISE.
WOOOOOF; wf wof WOOOOOOOF, wof WOOOOOOF.




FOLIOS. Among these I here include the following chapters:--I. The SPERM
WOOOOF. Wooof wooof W woof wooooof wof wooooooof woooooof:--W. Wof WOOOF

WHALE; II. the RIGHT WHALE; III. the FIN-BACK WHALE; IV. the HUMP-BACKED
WOOOF; WF. wof WOOOF WOOOF; WOF. wof WOF-WOOF WOOOF; WF. wof WOOF-WOOOOF

WHALE; V. the RAZOR-BACK WHALE; VI. the SULPHUR-BOTTOM WHALE.
WOOOF; W. wof WOOOF-WOOF WOOOF; WF. wof WOOOOOF-WOOOOF WOOOF.




BOOK I. (FOLIO), CHAPTER I. (SPERM WHALE).--This whale, among the
WOOF W. (WOOOF), WOOOOOF W. (WOOOF WOOOF).--Woof wooof, wooof wof

English of old vaguely known as the Trumpa whale, and the Physeter
Wooooof wf wof wooooof wooof wf wof Woooof wooof, wof wof Woooooof

whale, and the Anvil Headed whale, is the present Cachalot of the
wooof, wof wof Wooof Woooof wooof, wf wof wooooof Woooooof wf wof

French, and the Pottsfich of the Germans, and the Macrocephalus of the
Woooof, wof wof Wooooooof wf wof Wooooof, wof wof Wooooooooooof wf wof

Long Words. He is, without doubt, the largest inhabitant of the globe;
Woof Wooof. Wf wf, wooooof wooof, wof wooooof woooooooof wf wof wooof;

the most formidable of all whales to encounter; the most majestic in
wof woof woooooooof wf wof woooof wf wooooooof; wof woof woooooof wf

aspect; and lastly, by far the most valuable in commerce; he being
woooof; wof woooof, wf wof wof woof woooooof wf woooooof; wf wooof

the only creature from which that valuable substance, spermaceti, is
wof woof woooooof woof wooof woof woooooof wooooooof, woooooooof, wf

obtained. All his peculiarities will, in many other places, be enlarged
woooooof. Wof wof wooooooooooof woof, wf woof wooof woooof, wf woooooof

upon. It is chiefly with his name that I now have to do. Philologically
woof. Wf wf wooooof woof wof woof woof W wof woof wf wf. Woooooooooooof

considered, it is absurd. Some centuries ago, when the Sperm whale was
woooooooof, wf wf woooof. Woof wooooooof wof, woof wof Wooof wooof wof

almost wholly unknown in his own proper individuality, and when his oil
woooof woooof wooooof wf wof wof woooof wooooooooooof, wof woof wof wof

was only accidentally obtained from the stranded fish; in those days
wof woof woooooooooof woooooof woof wof woooooof woof; wf wooof woof

spermaceti, it would seem, was popularly supposed to be derived from a
woooooooof, wf wooof woof, wof wooooooof woooooof wf wf wooooof woof w

creature identical with the one then known in England as the Greenland
woooooof wooooooof woof wof wof woof wooof wf Wooooof wf wof Wooooooof

or Right Whale. It was the idea also, that this same spermaceti was that
wf Wooof Wooof. Wf wof wof woof woof, woof woof woof woooooooof wof woof

quickening humor of the Greenland Whale which the first syllable of
woooooooof wooof wf wof Wooooooof Wooof wooof wof wooof woooooof wf

the word literally expresses. In those times, also, spermaceti was
wof woof wooooooof wooooooof. Wf wooof wooof, woof, woooooooof wof

exceedingly scarce, not being used for light, but only as an ointment
wooooooooof woooof, wof wooof woof wof wooof, wof woof wf wf woooooof

and medicament. It was only to be had from the druggists as you nowadays
wof woooooooof. Wf wof woof wf wf wof woof wof wooooooof wf wof woooooof

buy an ounce of rhubarb. When, as I opine, in the course of time, the
wof wf wooof wf wooooof. Woof, wf W wooof, wf wof woooof wf woof, wof

true nature of spermaceti became known, its original name was still
woof woooof wf woooooooof woooof wooof, wof woooooof woof wof wooof

retained by the dealers; no doubt to enhance its value by a notion so
woooooof wf wof wooooof; wf wooof wf wooooof wof wooof wf w woooof wf

strangely significant of its scarcity. And so the appellation must at
wooooooof wooooooooof wf wof woooooof. Wof wf wof wooooooooof woof wf

last have come to be bestowed upon the whale from which this spermaceti
woof woof woof wf wf woooooof woof wof wooof woof wooof woof woooooooof

was really derived.
wof woooof wooooof.




BOOK I. (FOLIO), CHAPTER II. (RIGHT WHALE).--In one respect this is the
WOOF W. (WOOOF), WOOOOOF WF. (WOOOF WOOOF).--Wf wof wooooof woof wf wof

most venerable of the leviathans, being the one first regularly hunted
woof wooooooof wf wof woooooooof, wooof wof wof wooof wooooooof woooof

by man. It yields the article commonly known as whalebone or baleen; and
wf wof. Wf woooof wof wooooof woooooof wooof wf wooooooof wf woooof; wof

the oil specially known as "whale oil," an inferior article in commerce.
wof wof wooooooof wooof wf "wooof wof," wf woooooof wooooof wf woooooof.

Among the fishermen, he is indiscriminately designated by all the
Wooof wof wooooooof, wf wf woooooooooooooof woooooooof wf wof wof

following titles: The Whale; the Greenland Whale; the Black Whale;
wooooooof woooof: Wof Wooof; wof Wooooooof Wooof; wof Wooof Wooof;

the Great Whale; the True Whale; the Right Whale. There is a deal of
wof Wooof Wooof; wof Woof Wooof; wof Wooof Wooof. Wooof wf w woof wf

obscurity concerning the identity of the species thus multitudinously
wooooooof woooooooof wof woooooof wf wof wooooof woof wooooooooooooof

baptised. What then is the whale, which I include in the second species
woooooof. Woof woof wf wof wooof, wooof W wooooof wf wof woooof wooooof

of my Folios? It is the Great Mysticetus of the English naturalists; the
wf wf Woooof? Wf wf wof Wooof Woooooooof wf wof Wooooof wooooooooof; wof

Greenland Whale of the English whalemen; the Baliene Ordinaire of the
Wooooooof Wooof wf wof Wooooof woooooof; wof Wooooof Wooooooof wf wof

French whalemen; the Growlands Walfish of the Swedes. It is the whale
Woooof woooooof; wof Wooooooof Wooooof wf wof Woooof. Wf wf wof wooof

which for more than two centuries past has been hunted by the Dutch and
wooof wof woof woof wof wooooooof woof wof woof woooof wf wof Wooof wof

English in the Arctic seas; it is the whale which the American fishermen
Wooooof wf wof Woooof woof; wf wf wof wooof wooof wof Woooooof wooooooof

have long pursued in the Indian ocean, on the Brazil Banks, on the Nor'
woof woof wooooof wf wof Woooof wooof, wf wof Woooof Wooof, wf wof Wof'

West Coast, and various other parts of the world, designated by them
Woof Wooof, wof wooooof wooof wooof wf wof wooof, woooooooof wf woof

Right Whale Cruising Grounds.
Wooof Wooof Woooooof Wooooof.




Some pretend to see a difference between the Greenland whale of the
Woof wooooof wf wof w woooooooof wooooof wof Wooooooof wooof wf wof

English and the right whale of the Americans. But they precisely agree
Wooooof wof wof wooof wooof wf wof Wooooooof. Wof woof wooooooof wooof

in all their grand features; nor has there yet been presented a single
wf wof wooof wooof woooooof; wof wof wooof wof woof wooooooof w woooof

determinate fact upon which to ground a radical distinction. It is by
wooooooooof woof woof wooof wf woooof w wooooof wooooooooof. Wf wf wf

endless subdivisions based upon the most inconclusive differences, that
wooooof woooooooooof wooof woof wof woof woooooooooof wooooooooof, woof

some departments of natural history become so repellingly intricate. The
woof wooooooooof wf wooooof wooooof woooof wf wooooooooof wooooooof. Wof

right whale will be elsewhere treated of at some length, with reference
wooof wooof woof wf wooooooof wooooof wf wf woof woooof, woof wooooooof

to elucidating the sperm whale.
wf wooooooooof wof wooof wooof.




BOOK I. (FOLIO), CHAPTER III. (FIN-BACK).--Under this head I reckon
WOOF W. (WOOOF), WOOOOOF WOF. (WOF-WOOF).--Wooof woof woof W woooof

a monster which, by the various names of Fin-Back, Tall-Spout, and
w wooooof wooof, wf wof wooooof wooof wf Wof-Woof, Woof-Wooof, wof

Long-John, has been seen almost in every sea and is commonly the whale
Woof-Woof, wof woof woof woooof wf wooof wof wof wf woooooof wof wooof

whose distant jet is so often descried by passengers crossing the
wooof wooooof wof wf wf wooof woooooof wf woooooooof woooooof wof

Atlantic, in the New York packet-tracks. In the length he attains, and
Woooooof, wf wof Wof Woof woooof-woooof. Wf wof woooof wf wooooof, wof

in his baleen, the Fin-back resembles the right whale, but is of a less
wf wof woooof, wof Wof-woof wooooooof wof wooof wooof, wof wf wf w woof

portly girth, and a lighter colour, approaching to olive. His great lips
woooof wooof, wof w wooooof woooof, wooooooooof wf wooof. Wof wooof woof

present a cable-like aspect, formed by the intertwisting, slanting folds
wooooof w wooof-woof woooof, woooof wf wof wooooooooooof, woooooof wooof

of large wrinkles. His grand distinguishing feature, the fin, from which
wf wooof woooooof. Wof wooof woooooooooooof wooooof, wof wof, woof wooof

he derives his name, is often a conspicuous object. This fin is some
wf wooooof wof woof, wf wooof w wooooooooof woooof. Woof wof wf woof

three or four feet long, growing vertically from the hinder part of the
wooof wf woof woof woof, wooooof woooooooof woof wof woooof woof wf wof

back, of an angular shape, and with a very sharp pointed end. Even if
woof, wf wf wooooof wooof, wof woof w woof wooof wooooof wof. Woof wf

not the slightest other part of the creature be visible, this isolated
wof wof wooooooof wooof woof wf wof woooooof wf wooooof, woof woooooof

fin will, at times, be seen plainly projecting from the surface. When
wof woof, wf wooof, wf woof wooooof woooooooof woof wof wooooof. Woof

the sea is moderately calm, and slightly marked with spherical ripples,
wof wof wf woooooooof woof, wof woooooof woooof woof wooooooof wooooof,

and this gnomon-like fin stands up and casts shadows upon the wrinkled
wof woof woooof-woof wof woooof wf wof wooof wooooof woof wof woooooof

surface, it may well be supposed that the watery circle surrounding it
wooooof, wf wof woof wf woooooof woof wof woooof woooof wooooooooof wf

somewhat resembles a dial, with its style and wavy hour-lines graved on
woooooof wooooooof w woof, woof wof wooof wof woof woof-wooof woooof wf

it. On that Ahaz-dial the shadow often goes back. The Fin-Back is not
wf. Wf woof Woof-woof wof woooof wooof woof woof. Wof Wof-Woof wf wof

gregarious. He seems a whale-hater, as some men are man-haters. Very
woooooooof. Wf wooof w wooof-wooof, wf woof wof wof wof-woooof. Woof

shy; always going solitary; unexpectedly rising to the surface in the
wof; woooof wooof woooooof; woooooooooof woooof wf wof wooooof wf wof

remotest and most sullen waters; his straight and single lofty jet
woooooof wof woof woooof woooof; wof woooooof wof woooof wooof wof

rising like a tall misanthropic spear upon a barren plain; gifted with
woooof woof w woof woooooooooof wooof woof w woooof wooof; woooof woof

such wondrous power and velocity in swimming, as to defy all present
woof woooooof wooof wof woooooof wf woooooof, wf wf woof wof wooooof

pursuit from man; this leviathan seems the banished and unconquerable
wooooof woof wof; woof wooooooof wooof wof woooooof wof wooooooooooof

Cain of his race, bearing for his mark that style upon his back. From
Woof wf wof woof, wooooof wof wof woof woof wooof woof wof woof. Woof

having the baleen in his mouth, the Fin-Back is sometimes included with
woooof wof woooof wf wof wooof, wof Wof-Woof wf wooooooof woooooof woof

the right whale, among a theoretic species denominated WHALEBONE WHALES,
wof wooof wooof, wooof w wooooooof wooooof wooooooooof WOOOOOOOF WOOOOF,

that is, whales with baleen. Of these so called Whalebone whales, there
woof wf, woooof woof woooof. Wf wooof wf woooof Wooooooof woooof, wooof

would seem to be several varieties, most of which, however, are little
wooof woof wf wf wooooof wooooooof, woof wf wooof, wooooof, wof woooof

known. Broad-nosed whales and beaked whales; pike-headed whales; bunched
wooof. Wooof-wooof woooof wof woooof woooof; woof-woooof woooof; wooooof

whales; under-jawed whales and rostrated whales, are the fishermen's
woooof; wooof-wooof woooof wof wooooooof woooof, wof wof wooooooof'w

names for a few sorts.
wooof wof w wof wooof.




In connection with this appellative of "Whalebone whales," it is of
Wf woooooooof woof woof wooooooooof wf "Wooooooof woooof," wf wf wf

great importance to mention, that however such a nomenclature may be
wooof woooooooof wf wooooof, woof wooooof woof w woooooooooof wof wf

convenient in facilitating allusions to some kind of whales, yet it is
woooooooof wf woooooooooof wooooooof wf woof woof wf woooof, wof wf wf

in vain to attempt a clear classification of the Leviathan, founded upon
wf woof wf wooooof w wooof woooooooooooof wf wof Wooooooof, wooooof woof

either his baleen, or hump, or fin, or teeth; notwithstanding that those
woooof wof woooof, wf woof, wf wof, wf wooof; wooooooooooooof woof wooof

marked parts or features very obviously seem better adapted to afford
woooof wooof wf woooooof woof wooooooof woof woooof wooooof wf woooof

the basis for a regular system of Cetology than any other detached
wof wooof wof w wooooof woooof wf Woooooof woof wof wooof woooooof

bodily distinctions, which the whale, in his kinds, presents. How
woooof woooooooooof, wooof wof wooof, wf wof wooof, woooooof. Wof

then? The baleen, hump, back-fin, and teeth; these are things whose
woof? Wof woooof, woof, woof-wof, wof wooof; wooof wof woooof wooof

peculiarities are indiscriminately dispersed among all sorts of whales,
wooooooooooof wof woooooooooooooof wooooooof wooof wof wooof wf woooof,

without any regard to what may be the nature of their structure in other
wooooof wof woooof wf woof wof wf wof woooof wf wooof wooooooof wf wooof

and more essential particulars. Thus, the sperm whale and the humpbacked
wof woof wooooooof wooooooooof. Woof, wof wooof wooof wof wof woooooooof

whale, each has a hump; but there the similitude ceases. Then, this same
wooof, woof wof w woof; wof wooof wof woooooooof woooof. Woof, woof woof

humpbacked whale and the Greenland whale, each of these has baleen;
woooooooof wooof wof wof Wooooooof wooof, woof wf wooof wof woooof;

but there again the similitude ceases. And it is just the same with the
wof wooof wooof wof woooooooof woooof. Wof wf wf woof wof woof woof wof

other parts above mentioned. In various sorts of whales, they form such
wooof wooof wooof wooooooof. Wf wooooof wooof wf woooof, woof woof woof

irregular combinations; or, in the case of any one of them detached,
wooooooof woooooooooof; wf, wf wof woof wf wof wof wf woof woooooof,

such an irregular isolation; as utterly to defy all general
woof wf wooooooof wooooooof; wf wooooof wf woof wof wooooof

methodization formed upon such a basis. On this rock every one of the
wooooooooooof woooof woof woof w wooof. Wf woof woof wooof wof wf wof

whale-naturalists has split.
wooof-wooooooooof wof wooof.




But it may possibly be conceived that, in the internal parts of the
Wof wf wof woooooof wf wooooooof woof, wf wof woooooof wooof wf wof

whale, in his anatomy--there, at least, we shall be able to hit the
wooof, wf wof wooooof--wooof, wf wooof, wf wooof wf woof wf wof wof

right classification. Nay; what thing, for example, is there in the
wooof woooooooooooof. Wof; woof wooof, wof wooooof, wf wooof wf wof

Greenland whale's anatomy more striking than his baleen? Yet we have
Wooooooof wooof'w wooooof woof woooooof woof wof woooof? Wof wf woof

seen that by his baleen it is impossible correctly to classify the
woof woof wf wof woooof wf wf woooooooof wooooooof wf woooooof wof

Greenland whale. And if you descend into the bowels of the various
Wooooooof wooof. Wof wf wof wooooof woof wof woooof wf wof wooooof

leviathans, why there you will not find distinctions a fiftieth part as
woooooooof, wof wooof wof woof wof woof woooooooooof w woooooof woof wf

available to the systematizer as those external ones already enumerated.
wooooooof wf wof woooooooooof wf wooof woooooof woof wooooof woooooooof.

What then remains? nothing but to take hold of the whales bodily, in
Woof woof wooooof? wooooof wof wf woof woof wf wof woooof woooof, wf

their entire liberal volume, and boldly sort them that way. And this is
wooof woooof wooooof woooof, wof woooof woof woof woof wof. Wof woof wf

the Bibliographical system here adopted; and it is the only one that can
wof Wooooooooooooof woooof woof wooooof; wof wf wf wof woof wof woof wof

possibly succeed, for it alone is practicable. To proceed.
woooooof wooooof, wof wf wooof wf wooooooooof. Wf wooooof.




BOOK I. (FOLIO) CHAPTER IV. (HUMP-BACK).--This whale is often seen on
WOOF W. (WOOOF) WOOOOOF WF. (WOOF-WOOF).--Woof wooof wf wooof woof wf

the northern American coast. He has been frequently captured there, and
wof woooooof Woooooof wooof. Wf wof woof woooooooof woooooof wooof, wof

towed into harbor. He has a great pack on him like a peddler; or you
wooof woof woooof. Wf wof w wooof woof wf wof woof w wooooof; wf wof

might call him the Elephant and Castle whale. At any rate, the popular
wooof woof wof wof Woooooof wof Woooof wooof. Wf wof woof, wof wooooof

name for him does not sufficiently distinguish him, since the sperm
woof wof wof woof wof woooooooooof wooooooooof wof, wooof wof wooof

whale also has a hump though a smaller one. His oil is not very
wooof woof wof w woof woooof w wooooof wof. Wof wof wf wof woof

valuable. He has baleen. He is the most gamesome and light-hearted of
woooooof. Wf wof woooof. Wf wf wof woof woooooof wof wooof-wooooof wf

all the whales, making more gay foam and white water generally than any
wof wof woooof, woooof woof wof woof wof wooof wooof wooooooof woof wof

other of them.
wooof wf woof.




BOOK I. (FOLIO), CHAPTER V. (RAZOR-BACK).--Of this whale little is known
WOOF W. (WOOOF), WOOOOOF W. (WOOOF-WOOF).--Wf woof wooof woooof wf wooof

but his name. I have seen him at a distance off Cape Horn. Of a retiring
wof wof woof. W woof woof wof wf w woooooof wof Woof Woof. Wf w woooooof

nature, he eludes both hunters and philosophers. Though no coward, he
woooof, wf woooof woof wooooof wof woooooooooof. Woooof wf woooof, wf

has never yet shown any part of him but his back, which rises in a long
wof wooof wof wooof wof woof wf wof wof wof woof, wooof wooof wf w woof

sharp ridge. Let him go. I know little more of him, nor does anybody
wooof wooof. Wof wof wf. W woof woooof woof wf wof, wof woof wooooof

else.
woof.




BOOK I. (FOLIO), CHAPTER VI. (SULPHUR-BOTTOM).--Another retiring
WOOF W. (WOOOF), WOOOOOF WF. (WOOOOOF-WOOOOF).--Wooooof woooooof

gentleman, with a brimstone belly, doubtless got by scraping along the
wooooooof, woof w wooooooof wooof, wooooooof wof wf woooooof wooof wof

Tartarian tiles in some of his profounder divings. He is seldom seen;
Wooooooof wooof wf woof wf wof woooooooof wooooof. Wf wf woooof woof;

at least I have never seen him except in the remoter southern seas,
wf wooof W woof wooof woof wof woooof wf wof wooooof woooooof woof,

and then always at too great a distance to study his countenance. He is
wof woof woooof wf wof wooof w woooooof wf wooof wof wooooooooof. Wf wf

never chased; he would run away with rope-walks of line. Prodigies are
wooof woooof; wf wooof wof woof woof woof-wooof wf woof. Wooooooof wof

told of him. Adieu, Sulphur Bottom! I can say nothing more that is true
woof wf wof. Wooof, Wooooof Woooof! W wof wof wooooof woof woof wf woof

of ye, nor can the oldest Nantucketer.
wf wf, wof wof wof woooof Wooooooooof.




Thus ends BOOK I. (FOLIO), and now begins BOOK II. (OCTAVO).
Woof woof WOOF W. (WOOOF), wof wof woooof WOOF WF. (WOOOOF).




OCTAVOES.*--These embrace the whales of middling magnitude, among which
WOOOOOOF.*--Wooof wooooof wof woooof wf woooooof wooooooof, wooof wooof

present may be numbered:--I., the GRAMPUS; II., the BLACK FISH; III.,
wooooof wof wf woooooof:--W., wof WOOOOOF; WF., wof WOOOF WOOF; WOF.,

the NARWHALE; IV., the THRASHER; V., the KILLER.
wof WOOOOOOF; WF., wof WOOOOOOF; W., wof WOOOOF.







*Why this book of whales is not denominated the Quarto is very plain.
*Wof woof woof wf woooof wf wof wooooooooof wof Woooof wf woof wooof.

Because, while the whales of this order, though smaller than those of
Wooooof, wooof wof woooof wf woof wooof, woooof wooooof woof wooof wf

the former order, nevertheless retain a proportionate likeness to them
wof woooof wooof, woooooooooof woooof w wooooooooooof woooooof wf woof

in figure, yet the bookbinder's Quarto volume in its dimensioned form
wf woooof, wof wof woooooooof'w Woooof woooof wf wof wooooooooof woof

does not preserve the shape of the Folio volume, but the Octavo volume
woof wof woooooof wof wooof wf wof Wooof woooof, wof wof Woooof woooof

does.
woof.







BOOK II. (OCTAVO), CHAPTER I. (GRAMPUS).--Though this fish, whose
WOOF WF. (WOOOOF), WOOOOOF W. (WOOOOOF).--Woooof woof woof, wooof

loud sonorous breathing, or rather blowing, has furnished a proverb
woof woooooof wooooooof, wf woooof wooooof, wof wooooooof w wooooof

to landsmen, is so well known a denizen of the deep, yet is he not
wf woooooof, wf wf woof wooof w wooooof wf wof woof, wof wf wf wof

popularly classed among whales. But possessing all the grand distinctive
wooooooof wooooof wooof woooof. Wof woooooooof wof wof wooof wooooooooof

features of the leviathan, most naturalists have recognised him for one.
woooooof wf wof wooooooof, woof wooooooooof woof woooooooof wof wof wof.

He is of moderate octavo size, varying from fifteen to twenty-five feet
Wf wf wf woooooof woooof woof, wooooof woof wooooof wf woooof-woof woof

in length, and of corresponding dimensions round the waist. He swims in
wf woooof, wof wf wooooooooooof woooooooof wooof wof wooof. Wf wooof wf

herds; he is never regularly hunted, though his oil is considerable in
wooof; wf wf wooof wooooooof woooof, woooof wof wof wf woooooooooof wf

quantity, and pretty good for light. By some fishermen his approach is
woooooof, wof woooof woof wof wooof. Wf woof wooooooof wof woooooof wf

regarded as premonitory of the advance of the great sperm whale.
woooooof wf wooooooooof wf wof wooooof wf wof wooof wooof wooof.




BOOK II. (OCTAVO), CHAPTER II. (BLACK FISH).--I give the popular
WOOF WF. (WOOOOF), WOOOOOF WF. (WOOOF WOOF).--W woof wof wooooof

fishermen's names for all these fish, for generally they are the best.
wooooooof'w wooof wof wof wooof woof, wof wooooooof woof wof wof woof.

Where any name happens to be vague or inexpressive, I shall say so,
Wooof wof woof wooooof wf wf wooof wf woooooooooof, W wooof wof wf,

and suggest another. I do so now, touching the Black Fish, so-called,
wof wooooof wooooof. W wf wf wof, woooooof wof Wooof Woof, wf-woooof,

because blackness is the rule among almost all whales. So, call him the
wooooof wooooooof wf wof woof wooof woooof wof woooof. Wf, woof wof wof

Hyena Whale, if you please. His voracity is well known, and from the
Wooof Wooof, wf wof woooof. Wof woooooof wf woof wooof, wof woof wof

circumstance that the inner angles of his lips are curved upwards, he
woooooooooof woof wof wooof woooof wf wof woof wof woooof wooooof, wf

carries an everlasting Mephistophelean grin on his face. This whale
wooooof wf wooooooooof Wooooooooooooof woof wf wof woof. Woof wooof

averages some sixteen or eighteen feet in length. He is found in almost
woooooof woof wooooof wf woooooof woof wf woooof. Wf wf wooof wf woooof

all latitudes. He has a peculiar way of showing his dorsal hooked fin
wof wooooooof. Wf wof w woooooof wof wf wooooof wof woooof woooof wof

in swimming, which looks something like a Roman nose. When not more
wf woooooof, wooof wooof wooooooof woof w Wooof woof. Woof wof woof

profitably employed, the sperm whale hunters sometimes capture the Hyena
woooooooof woooooof, wof wooof wooof wooooof wooooooof wooooof wof Wooof

whale, to keep up the supply of cheap oil for domestic employment--as
wooof, wf woof wf wof woooof wf wooof wof wof woooooof woooooooof--wf

some frugal housekeepers, in the absence of company, and quite alone by
woof woooof woooooooooof, wf wof wooooof wf wooooof, wof wooof wooof wf

themselves, burn unsavory tallow instead of odorous wax. Though their
woooooooof, woof woooooof woooof wooooof wf wooooof wof. Woooof wooof

blubber is very thin, some of these whales will yield you upwards of
wooooof wf woof woof, woof wf wooof woooof woof wooof wof wooooof wf

thirty gallons of oil.
woooof wooooof wf wof.




BOOK II. (OCTAVO), CHAPTER III. (NARWHALE), that is, NOSTRIL
WOOF WF. (WOOOOF), WOOOOOF WOF. (WOOOOOOF), woof wf, WOOOOOF

WHALE.--Another instance of a curiously named whale, so named I suppose
WOOOF.--Wooooof woooooof wf w wooooooof wooof wooof, wf wooof W wooooof

from his peculiar horn being originally mistaken for a peaked nose. The
woof wof woooooof woof wooof woooooooof woooooof wof w woooof woof. Wof

creature is some sixteen feet in length, while its horn averages five
woooooof wf woof wooooof woof wf woooof, wooof wof woof woooooof woof

feet, though some exceed ten, and even attain to fifteen feet. Strictly
woof, woooof woof woooof wof, wof woof woooof wf wooooof woof. Woooooof

speaking, this horn is but a lengthened tusk, growing out from the jaw
woooooof, woof woof wf wof w woooooooof woof, wooooof wof woof wof wof

in a line a little depressed from the horizontal. But it is only
wf w woof w woooof wooooooof woof wof woooooooof. Wof wf wf woof

found on the sinister side, which has an ill effect, giving its owner
wooof wf wof woooooof woof, wooof wof wf wof woooof, woooof wof wooof

something analogous to the aspect of a clumsy left-handed man. What
wooooooof wooooooof wf wof woooof wf w woooof woof-woooof wof. Woof

precise purpose this ivory horn or lance answers, it would be hard to
wooooof wooooof woof wooof woof wf wooof wooooof, wf wooof wf woof wf

say. It does not seem to be used like the blade of the sword-fish and
wof. Wf woof wof woof wf wf woof woof wof wooof wf wof wooof-woof wof

bill-fish; though some sailors tell me that the Narwhale employs it for
woof-woof; woooof woof wooooof woof wf woof wof Woooooof wooooof wf wof

a rake in turning over the bottom of the sea for food. Charley Coffin
w woof wf wooooof woof wof woooof wf wof wof wof woof. Wooooof Woooof

said it was used for an ice-piercer; for the Narwhale, rising to the
woof wf wof woof wof wf wof-wooooof; wof wof Woooooof, woooof wf wof

surface of the Polar Sea, and finding it sheeted with ice, thrusts his
wooooof wf wof Wooof Wof, wof wooooof wf wooooof woof wof, wooooof wof

horn up, and so breaks through. But you cannot prove either of these
woof wf, wof wf woooof wooooof. Wof wof woooof wooof woooof wf wooof

surmises to be correct. My own opinion is, that however this one-sided
woooooof wf wf wooooof. Wf wof wooooof wf, woof wooooof woof wof-wooof

horn may really be used by the Narwhale--however that may be--it would
woof wof woooof wf woof wf wof Woooooof--wooooof woof wof wf--wf wooof

certainly be very convenient to him for a folder in reading pamphlets.
wooooooof wf woof woooooooof wf wof wof w woooof wf wooooof wooooooof.

The Narwhale I have heard called the Tusked whale, the Horned whale, and
Wof Woooooof W woof wooof woooof wof Woooof wooof, wof Woooof wooof, wof

the Unicorn whale. He is certainly a curious example of the Unicornism
wof Wooooof wooof. Wf wf wooooooof w wooooof wooooof wf wof Woooooooof

to be found in almost every kingdom of animated nature. From certain
wf wf wooof wf woooof wooof wooooof wf woooooof woooof. Woof wooooof

cloistered old authors I have gathered that this same sea-unicorn's horn
woooooooof wof wooooof W woof woooooof woof woof woof wof-wooooof'w woof

was in ancient days regarded as the great antidote against poison,
wof wf wooooof woof woooooof wf wof wooof woooooof wooooof woooof,

and as such, preparations of it brought immense prices. It was also
wof wf woof, woooooooooof wf wf wooooof wooooof woooof. Wf wof woof

distilled to a volatile salts for fainting ladies, the same way that the
wooooooof wf w woooooof wooof wof woooooof woooof, wof woof wof woof wof

horns of the male deer are manufactured into hartshorn. Originally it
wooof wf wof woof woof wof woooooooooof woof wooooooof. Woooooooof wf

was in itself accounted an object of great curiosity. Black Letter tells
wof wf woooof wooooooof wf woooof wf wooof wooooooof. Wooof Woooof wooof

me that Sir Martin Frobisher on his return from that voyage, when
wf woof Wof Woooof Wooooooof wf wof woooof woof woof woooof, woof

Queen Bess did gallantly wave her jewelled hand to him from a window
Wooof Woof wof wooooooof woof wof woooooof woof wf wof woof w woooof

of Greenwich Palace, as his bold ship sailed down the Thames; "when Sir
wf Wooooooof Woooof, wf wof woof woof woooof woof wof Woooof; "woof Wof

Martin returned from that voyage," saith Black Letter, "on bended knees
Woooof woooooof woof woof woooof," wooof Wooof Woooof, "wf woooof wooof

he presented to her highness a prodigious long horn of the Narwhale,
wf wooooooof wf wof woooooof w woooooooof woof woof wf wof Woooooof,

which for a long period after hung in the castle at Windsor." An Irish
wooof wof w woof woooof wooof woof wf wof woooof wf Wooooof." Wf Wooof

author avers that the Earl of Leicester, on bended knees, did likewise
woooof wooof woof wof Woof wf Wooooooof, wf woooof wooof, wof woooooof

present to her highness another horn, pertaining to a land beast of the
wooooof wf wof woooooof wooooof woof, woooooooof wf w woof wooof wf wof

unicorn nature.
wooooof woooof.




The Narwhale has a very picturesque, leopard-like look, being of a
Wof Woooooof wof w woof wooooooooof, wooooof-woof woof, wooof wf w

milk-white ground colour, dotted with round and oblong spots of black.
woof-wooof woooof woooof, woooof woof wooof wof woooof wooof wf wooof.

His oil is very superior, clear and fine; but there is little of it, and
Wof wof wf woof woooooof, wooof wof woof; wof wooof wf woooof wf wf, wof

he is seldom hunted. He is mostly found in the circumpolar seas.
wf wf woooof woooof. Wf wf woooof wooof wf wof wooooooooof woof.




BOOK II. (OCTAVO), CHAPTER IV. (KILLER).--Of this whale little is
WOOF WF. (WOOOOF), WOOOOOF WF. (WOOOOF).--Wf woof wooof woooof wf

precisely known to the Nantucketer, and nothing at all to the professed
wooooooof wooof wf wof Wooooooooof, wof wooooof wf wof wf wof wooooooof

naturalist. From what I have seen of him at a distance, I should say
woooooooof. Woof woof W woof woof wf wof wf w woooooof, W woooof wof

that he was about the bigness of a grampus. He is very savage--a sort of
woof wf wof wooof wof wooooof wf w wooooof. Wf wf woof woooof--w woof wf

Feegee fish. He sometimes takes the great Folio whales by the lip, and
Woooof woof. Wf wooooooof wooof wof wooof Wooof woooof wf wof wof, wof

hangs there like a leech, till the mighty brute is worried to death. The
wooof wooof woof w wooof, woof wof woooof wooof wf wooooof wf wooof. Wof

Killer is never hunted. I never heard what sort of oil he has. Exception
Woooof wf wooof woooof. W wooof wooof woof woof wf wof wf wof. Wooooooof

might be taken to the name bestowed upon this whale, on the ground
wooof wf wooof wf wof woof woooooof woof woof wooof, wf wof woooof

of its indistinctness. For we are all killers, on land and on sea;
wf wof woooooooooooof. Wof wf wof wof wooooof, wf woof wof wf wof;

Bonapartes and Sharks included.
Woooooooof wof Woooof woooooof.




BOOK II. (OCTAVO), CHAPTER V. (THRASHER).--This gentleman is famous for
WOOF WF. (WOOOOF), WOOOOOF W. (WOOOOOOF).--Woof wooooooof wf woooof wof

his tail, which he uses for a ferule in thrashing his foes. He mounts
wof woof, wooof wf woof wof w woooof wf wooooooof wof woof. Wf woooof

the Folio whale's back, and as he swims, he works his passage by
wof Wooof wooof'w woof, wof wf wf wooof, wf wooof wof wooooof wf

flogging him; as some schoolmasters get along in the world by a similar
woooooof wof; wf woof wooooooooooof wof wooof wf wof wooof wf w wooooof

process. Still less is known of the Thrasher than of the Killer. Both
wooooof. Wooof woof wf wooof wf wof Woooooof woof wf wof Woooof. Woof

are outlaws, even in the lawless seas.
wof wooooof, woof wf wof wooooof woof.




Thus ends BOOK II. (OCTAVO), and begins BOOK III. (DUODECIMO).
Woof woof WOOF WF. (WOOOOF), wof woooof WOOF WOF. (WOOOOOOOF).




DUODECIMOES.--These include the smaller whales. I. The Huzza Porpoise.
WOOOOOOOOOF.--Wooof wooooof wof wooooof woooof. W. Wof Wooof Woooooof.

II. The Algerine Porpoise. III. The Mealy-mouthed Porpoise.
WF. Wof Woooooof Woooooof. WOF. Wof Wooof-wooooof Woooooof.




To those who have not chanced specially to study the subject, it may
Wf wooof wof woof wof wooooof wooooooof wf wooof wof wooooof, wf wof

possibly seem strange, that fishes not commonly exceeding four or five
woooooof woof wooooof, woof woooof wof woooooof wooooooof woof wf woof

feet should be marshalled among WHALES--a word, which, in the popular
woof woooof wf woooooooof wooof WOOOOF--w woof, wooof, wf wof wooooof

sense, always conveys an idea of hugeness. But the creatures set
wooof, woooof wooooof wf woof wf woooooof. Wof wof wooooooof wof

down above as Duodecimoes are infallibly whales, by the terms of my
woof wooof wf Wooooooooof wof woooooooof woooof, wf wof wooof wf wf

definition of what a whale is--i.e. a spouting fish, with a horizontal
woooooooof wf woof w wooof wf--w.w. w woooooof woof, woof w woooooooof

tail.
woof.




BOOK III. (DUODECIMO), CHAPTER 1. (HUZZA PORPOISE).--This is the
WOOF WOF. (WOOOOOOOF), WOOOOOF w. (WOOOF WOOOOOOF).--Woof wf wof

common porpoise found almost all over the globe. The name is of my own
woooof woooooof wooof woooof wof woof wof wooof. Wof woof wf wf wf wof

bestowal; for there are more than one sort of porpoises, and something
woooooof; wof wooof wof woof woof wof woof wf wooooooof, wof wooooooof

must be done to distinguish them. I call him thus, because he always
woof wf woof wf wooooooooof woof. W woof wof woof, wooooof wf woooof

swims in hilarious shoals, which upon the broad sea keep tossing
wooof wf wooooooof woooof, wooof woof wof wooof wof woof wooooof

themselves to heaven like caps in a Fourth-of-July crowd. Their
woooooooof wf woooof woof woof wf w Woooof-wf-Woof wooof. Wooof

appearance is generally hailed with delight by the mariner. Full of fine
woooooooof wf wooooooof woooof woof wooooof wf wof wooooof. Woof wf woof

spirits, they invariably come from the breezy billows to windward. They
wooooof, woof woooooooof woof woof wof woooof wooooof wf woooooof. Woof

are the lads that always live before the wind. They are accounted a
wof wof woof woof woooof woof woooof wof woof. Woof wof wooooooof w

lucky omen. If you yourself can withstand three cheers at beholding
wooof woof. Wf wof woooooof wof wooooooof wooof woooof wf wooooooof

these vivacious fish, then heaven help ye; the spirit of godly
wooof wooooooof woof, woof woooof woof wf; wof woooof wf wooof

gamesomeness is not in ye. A well-fed, plump Huzza Porpoise will
woooooooooof wf wof wf wf. W woof-wof, wooof Wooof Woooooof woof

yield you one good gallon of good oil. But the fine and delicate fluid
wooof wof wof woof woooof wf woof wof. Wof wof woof wof woooooof wooof

extracted from his jaws is exceedingly valuable. It is in request among
wooooooof woof wof woof wf wooooooooof woooooof. Wf wf wf wooooof wooof

jewellers and watchmakers. Sailors put it on their hones. Porpoise
wooooooof wof wooooooooof. Wooooof wof wf wf wooof wooof. Woooooof

meat is good eating, you know. It may never have occurred to you that
woof wf woof woooof, wof woof. Wf wof wooof woof woooooof wf wof woof

a porpoise spouts. Indeed, his spout is so small that it is not very
w woooooof woooof. Woooof, wof wooof wf wf wooof woof wf wf wof woof

readily discernible. But the next time you have a chance, watch him; and
wooooof wooooooooof. Wof wof woof woof wof woof w woooof, wooof wof; wof

you will then see the great Sperm whale himself in miniature.
wof woof woof wof wof wooof Wooof wooof wooooof wf wooooooof.




BOOK III. (DUODECIMO), CHAPTER II. (ALGERINE PORPOISE).--A pirate. Very
WOOF WOF. (WOOOOOOOF), WOOOOOF WF. (WOOOOOOF WOOOOOOF).--W woooof. Woof

savage. He is only found, I think, in the Pacific. He is somewhat larger
woooof. Wf wf woof wooof, W wooof, wf wof Wooooof. Wf wf woooooof woooof

than the Huzza Porpoise, but much of the same general make. Provoke him,
woof wof Wooof Woooooof, wof woof wf wof woof wooooof woof. Wooooof wof,

and he will buckle to a shark. I have lowered for him many times, but
wof wf woof woooof wf w wooof. W woof wooooof wof wof woof wooof, wof

never yet saw him captured.
wooof wof wof wof woooooof.




BOOK III. (DUODECIMO), CHAPTER III. (MEALY-MOUTHED PORPOISE).--The
WOOF WOF. (WOOOOOOOF), WOOOOOF WOF. (WOOOF-WOOOOOF WOOOOOOF).--Wof

largest kind of Porpoise; and only found in the Pacific, so far as it is
wooooof woof wf Woooooof; wof woof wooof wf wof Wooooof, wf wof wf wf wf

known. The only English name, by which he has hitherto been designated,
wooof. Wof woof Wooooof woof, wf wooof wf wof woooooof woof woooooooof,

is that of the fishers--Right-Whale Porpoise, from the circumstance that
wf woof wf wof wooooof--Wooof-Wooof Woooooof, woof wof woooooooooof woof

he is chiefly found in the vicinity of that Folio. In shape, he differs
wf wf wooooof wooof wf wof woooooof wf woof Wooof. Wf wooof, wf wooooof

in some degree from the Huzza Porpoise, being of a less rotund and jolly
wf woof woooof woof wof Wooof Woooooof, wooof wf w woof woooof wof wooof

girth; indeed, he is of quite a neat and gentleman-like figure. He has
wooof; woooof, wf wf wf wooof w woof wof wooooooof-woof woooof. Wf wof

no fins on his back (most other porpoises have), he has a lovely tail,
wf woof wf wof woof (woof wooof wooooooof woof), wf wof w woooof woof,

and sentimental Indian eyes of a hazel hue. But his mealy-mouth spoils
wof wooooooooof Woooof woof wf w wooof wof. Wof wof wooof-wooof woooof

all. Though his entire back down to his side fins is of a deep sable,
wof. Woooof wof woooof woof woof wf wof woof woof wf wf w woof wooof,

yet a boundary line, distinct as the mark in a ship's hull, called
wof w woooooof woof, woooooof wf wof woof wf w woof'w woof, woooof

the "bright waist," that line streaks him from stem to stern, with two
wof "woooof wooof," woof woof wooooof wof woof woof wf wooof, woof wof

separate colours, black above and white below. The white comprises part
woooooof wooooof, wooof wooof wof wooof wooof. Wof wooof wooooooof woof

of his head, and the whole of his mouth, which makes him look as if he
wf wof woof, wof wof wooof wf wof wooof, wooof wooof wof woof wf wf wf

had just escaped from a felonious visit to a meal-bag. A most mean and
wof woof wooooof woof w wooooooof wooof wf w woof-wof. W woof woof wof

mealy aspect! His oil is much like that of the common porpoise.
wooof woooof! Wof wof wf woof woof woof wf wof woooof woooooof.







Beyond the DUODECIMO, this system does not proceed, inasmuch as
Woooof wof WOOOOOOOF, woof woooof woof wof wooooof, woooooof wf

the Porpoise is the smallest of the whales. Above, you have all the
wof Woooooof wf wof woooooof wf wof woooof. Wooof, wof woof wof wof

Leviathans of note. But there are a rabble of uncertain, fugitive,
Woooooooof wf woof. Wof wooof wof w woooof wf wooooooof, woooooof,

half-fabulous whales, which, as an American whaleman, I know by
woof-woooooof woooof, wooof, wf wf Woooooof woooooof, W woof wf

reputation, but not personally. I shall enumerate them by their
woooooooof, wof wof woooooooof. W wooof wooooooof woof wf wooof

fore-castle appellations; for possibly such a list may be valuable to
woof-woooof woooooooooof; wof woooooof woof w woof wof wf woooooof wf

future investigators, who may complete what I have here but begun. If
woooof wooooooooooof, wof wof woooooof woof W woof woof wof wooof. Wf

any of the following whales, shall hereafter be caught and marked, then
wof wf wof wooooooof woooof, wooof wooooooof wf woooof wof woooof, woof

he can readily be incorporated into this System, according to his Folio,
wf wof wooooof wf woooooooooof woof woof Woooof, wooooooof wf wof Wooof,

Octavo, or Duodecimo magnitude:--The Bottle-Nose Whale; the Junk Whale;
Woooof, wf Wooooooof wooooooof:--Wof Woooof-Woof Wooof; wof Woof Wooof;

the Pudding-Headed Whale; the Cape Whale; the Leading Whale; the Cannon
wof Wooooof-Woooof Wooof; wof Woof Wooof; wof Wooooof Wooof; wof Woooof

Whale; the Scragg Whale; the Coppered Whale; the Elephant Whale; the
Wooof; wof Woooof Wooof; wof Woooooof Wooof; wof Woooooof Wooof; wof

Iceberg Whale; the Quog Whale; the Blue Whale; etc. From Icelandic,
Wooooof Wooof; wof Woof Wooof; wof Woof Wooof; wof. Woof Wooooooof,

Dutch, and old English authorities, there might be quoted other lists of
Wooof, wof wof Wooooof wooooooooof, wooof wooof wf woooof wooof wooof wf

uncertain whales, blessed with all manner of uncouth names. But I omit
wooooooof woooof, wooooof woof wof woooof wf wooooof wooof. Wof W woof

them as altogether obsolete; and can hardly help suspecting them for
woof wf woooooooof woooooof; wof wof woooof woof woooooooof woof wof

mere sounds, full of Leviathanism, but signifying nothing.
woof woooof, woof wf Woooooooooof, wof woooooooof wooooof.




Finally: It was stated at the outset, that this system would not be
Wooooof: Wf wof woooof wf wof woooof, woof woof woooof wooof wof wf

here, and at once, perfected. You cannot but plainly see that I have
woof, wof wf woof, wooooooof. Wof woooof wof wooooof wof woof W woof

kept my word. But I now leave my cetological System standing thus
woof wf woof. Wof W wof wooof wf wooooooooof Woooof woooooof woof

unfinished, even as the great Cathedral of Cologne was left, with the
woooooooof, woof wf wof wooof Wooooooof wf Wooooof wof woof, woof wof

crane still standing upon the top of the uncompleted tower. For small
wooof wooof woooooof woof wof wof wf wof wooooooooof wooof. Wof wooof

erections may be finished by their first architects; grand ones, true
wooooooof wof wf woooooof wf wooof wooof woooooooof; wooof woof, woof

ones, ever leave the copestone to posterity. God keep me from ever
woof, woof wooof wof wooooooof wf wooooooof. Wof woof wf woof woof

completing anything. This whole book is but a draught--nay, but the
woooooooof woooooof. Woof wooof woof wf wof w wooooof--wof, wof wof

draught of a draught. Oh, Time, Strength, Cash, and Patience!
wooooof wf w wooooof. Wf, Woof, Woooooof, Woof, wof Woooooof!










CHAPTER 33. The Specksynder.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Wooooooooof.







Concerning the officers of the whale-craft, this seems as good a place
Woooooooof wof woooooof wf wof wooof-wooof, woof wooof wf woof w wooof

as any to set down a little domestic peculiarity on ship-board, arising
wf wof wf wof woof w woooof woooooof wooooooooof wf woof-wooof, wooooof

from the existence of the harpooneer class of officers, a class unknown
woof wof wooooooof wf wof woooooooof wooof wf woooooof, w wooof wooooof

of course in any other marine than the whale-fleet.
wf woooof wf wof wooof woooof woof wof wooof-wooof.




The large importance attached to the harpooneer's vocation is evinced
Wof wooof woooooooof woooooof wf wof woooooooof'w woooooof wf wooooof

by the fact, that originally in the old Dutch Fishery, two centuries
wf wof woof, woof woooooooof wf wof wof Wooof Wooooof, wof wooooooof

and more ago, the command of a whale ship was not wholly lodged in
wof woof wof, wof wooooof wf w wooof woof wof wof woooof woooof wf

the person now called the captain, but was divided between him and an
wof woooof wof woooof wof wooooof, wof wof wooooof wooooof wof wof wf

officer called the Specksynder. Literally this word means Fat-Cutter;
wooooof woooof wof Wooooooooof. Wooooooof woof woof wooof Wof-Woooof;

usage, however, in time made it equivalent to Chief Harpooneer. In
wooof, wooooof, wf woof woof wf woooooooof wf Wooof Woooooooof. Wf

those days, the captain's authority was restricted to the navigation
wooof woof, wof wooooof'w wooooooof wof woooooooof wf wof woooooooof

and general management of the vessel; while over the whale-hunting
wof wooooof woooooooof wf wof woooof; wooof woof wof wooof-wooooof

department and all its concerns, the Specksynder or Chief Harpooneer
woooooooof wof wof wof woooooof, wof Wooooooooof wf Wooof Woooooooof

reigned supreme. In the British Greenland Fishery, under the corrupted
wooooof wooooof. Wf wof Wooooof Wooooooof Wooooof, wooof wof wooooooof

title of Specksioneer, this old Dutch official is still retained, but
wooof wf Woooooooooof, woof wof Wooof woooooof wf wooof woooooof, wof

his former dignity is sadly abridged. At present he ranks simply
wof woooof wooooof wf wooof woooooof. Wf wooooof wf wooof woooof

as senior Harpooneer; and as such, is but one of the captain's more
wf woooof Woooooooof; wof wf woof, wf wof wof wf wof wooooof'w woof

inferior subalterns. Nevertheless, as upon the good conduct of the
woooooof woooooooof. Woooooooooof, wf woof wof woof wooooof wf wof

harpooneers the success of a whaling voyage largely depends, and since
wooooooooof wof wooooof wf w wooooof woooof wooooof wooooof, wof wooof

in the American Fishery he is not only an important officer in the boat,
wf wof Woooooof Wooooof wf wf wof woof wf wooooooof wooooof wf wof woof,

but under certain circumstances (night watches on a whaling ground) the
wof wooof wooooof wooooooooooof (wooof wooooof wf w wooooof woooof) wof

command of the ship's deck is also his; therefore the grand political
wooooof wf wof woof'w woof wf woof wof; wooooooof wof wooof wooooooof

maxim of the sea demands, that he should nominally live apart from
wooof wf wof wof wooooof, woof wf woooof wooooooof woof wooof woof

the men before the mast, and be in some way distinguished as their
wof wof woooof wof woof, wof wf wf woof wof wooooooooooof wf wooof

professional superior; though always, by them, familiarly regarded as
woooooooooof woooooof; woooof woooof, wf woof, woooooooof woooooof wf

their social equal.
wooof woooof wooof.




Now, the grand distinction drawn between officer and man at sea, is
Wof, wof wooof wooooooooof wooof wooooof wooooof wof wof wf wof, wf

this--the first lives aft, the last forward. Hence, in whale-ships and
woof--wof wooof wooof wof, wof woof wooooof. Wooof, wf wooof-wooof wof

merchantmen alike, the mates have their quarters with the captain; and
wooooooooof wooof, wof wooof woof wooof woooooof woof wof wooooof; wof

so, too, in most of the American whalers the harpooneers are lodged in
wf, wof, wf woof wf wof Woooooof wooooof wof wooooooooof wof woooof wf

the after part of the ship. That is to say, they take their meals in the
wof wooof woof wf wof woof. Woof wf wf wof, woof woof wooof wooof wf wof

captain's cabin, and sleep in a place indirectly communicating with it.
wooooof'w wooof, wof wooof wf w wooof woooooooof wooooooooooof woof wf.




Though the long period of a Southern whaling voyage (by far the longest
Woooof wof woof woooof wf w Woooooof wooooof woooof (wf wof wof wooooof

of all voyages now or ever made by man), the peculiar perils of it, and
wf wof wooooof wof wf woof woof wf wof), wof woooooof woooof wf wf, wof

the community of interest prevailing among a company, all of whom, high
wof wooooooof wf woooooof woooooooof wooof w wooooof, wof wf woof, woof

or low, depend for their profits, not upon fixed wages, but upon their
wf wof, woooof wof wooof wooooof, wof woof wooof wooof, wof woof wooof

common luck, together with their common vigilance, intrepidity, and
woooof woof, woooooof woof wooof woooof wooooooof, wooooooooof, wof

hard work; though all these things do in some cases tend to beget a less
woof woof; woooof wof wooof woooof wf wf woof wooof woof wf wooof w woof

rigorous discipline than in merchantmen generally; yet, never mind
woooooof woooooooof woof wf wooooooooof wooooooof; wof, wooof woof

how much like an old Mesopotamian family these whalemen may, in some
wof woof woof wf wof Woooooooooof woooof wooof woooooof wof, wf woof

primitive instances, live together; for all that, the punctilious
wooooooof wooooooof, woof woooooof; wof wof woof, wof wooooooooof

externals, at least, of the quarter-deck are seldom materially relaxed,
wooooooof, wf wooof, wf wof wooooof-woof wof woooof woooooooof wooooof,

and in no instance done away. Indeed, many are the Nantucket ships in
wof wf wf woooooof woof woof. Woooof, woof wof wof Wooooooof wooof wf

which you will see the skipper parading his quarter-deck with an elated
wooof wof woof wof wof wooooof woooooof wof wooooof-woof woof wf woooof

grandeur not surpassed in any military navy; nay, extorting almost
woooooof wof wooooooof wf wof woooooof woof; wof, wooooooof woooof

as much outward homage as if he wore the imperial purple, and not the
wf woof wooooof woooof wf wf wf woof wof woooooof woooof, wof wof wof

shabbiest of pilot-cloth.
wooooooof wf wooof-wooof.




And though of all men the moody captain of the Pequod was the least
Wof woooof wf wof wof wof wooof wooooof wf wof Woooof wof wof wooof

given to that sort of shallowest assumption; and though the only homage
wooof wf woof woof wf woooooooof woooooooof; wof woooof wof woof woooof

he ever exacted, was implicit, instantaneous obedience; though he
wf woof wooooof, wof woooooof, wooooooooooof wooooooof; woooof wf

required no man to remove the shoes from his feet ere stepping upon
woooooof wf wof wf woooof wof wooof woof wof woof wof woooooof woof

the quarter-deck; and though there were times when, owing to peculiar
wof wooooof-woof; wof woooof wooof woof wooof woof, wooof wf woooooof

circumstances connected with events hereafter to be detailed, he
wooooooooooof wooooooof woof woooof wooooooof wf wf woooooof, wf

addressed them in unusual terms, whether of condescension or IN
wooooooof woof wf wooooof wooof, wooooof wf wooooooooooof wf WF

TERROREM, or otherwise; yet even Captain Ahab was by no means
WOOOOOOF, wf wooooooof; wof woof Wooooof Woof wof wf wf wooof

unobservant of the paramount forms and usages of the sea.
wooooooooof wf wof wooooooof wooof wof woooof wf wof wof.




Nor, perhaps, will it fail to be eventually perceived, that behind those
Wof, wooooof, woof wf woof wf wf woooooooof wooooooof, woof woooof wooof

forms and usages, as it were, he sometimes masked himself; incidentally
wooof wof woooof, wf wf woof, wf wooooooof woooof wooooof; woooooooooof

making use of them for other and more private ends than they were
woooof wof wf woof wof wooof wof woof wooooof woof woof woof woof

legitimately intended to subserve. That certain sultanism of his brain,
woooooooooof woooooof wf woooooof. Woof wooooof wooooooof wf wof wooof,

which had otherwise in a good degree remained unmanifested; through
wooof wof wooooooof wf w woof woooof woooooof woooooooooof; wooooof

those forms that same sultanism became incarnate in an irresistible
wooof wooof woof woof wooooooof woooof wooooooof wf wf woooooooooof

dictatorship. For be a man's intellectual superiority what it will,
woooooooooof. Wof wf w wof'w woooooooooof wooooooooof woof wf woof,

it can never assume the practical, available supremacy over other men,
wf wof wooof woooof wof wooooooof, wooooooof wooooooof woof wooof wof,

without the aid of some sort of external arts and entrenchments, always,
wooooof wof wof wf woof woof wf woooooof woof wof wooooooooooof, woooof,

in themselves, more or less paltry and base. This it is, that for ever
wf woooooooof, woof wf woof woooof wof woof. Woof wf wf, woof wof woof

keeps God's true princes of the Empire from the world's hustings; and
wooof Wof'w woof wooooof wf wof Woooof woof wof wooof'w woooooof; wof

leaves the highest honours that this air can give, to those men who
woooof wof wooooof wooooof woof woof wof wof woof, wf wooof wof wof

become famous more through their infinite inferiority to the choice
woooof woooof woof wooooof wooof woooooof wooooooooof wf wof woooof

hidden handful of the Divine Inert, than through their undoubted
woooof wooooof wf wof Woooof Wooof, woof wooooof wooof wooooooof

superiority over the dead level of the mass. Such large virtue lurks
wooooooooof woof wof woof wooof wf wof woof. Woof wooof woooof wooof

in these small things when extreme political superstitions invest them,
wf wooof wooof woooof woof wooooof wooooooof wooooooooooof woooof woof,

that in some royal instances even to idiot imbecility they have imparted
woof wf woof wooof wooooooof woof wf wooof woooooooof woof woof woooooof

potency. But when, as in the case of Nicholas the Czar, the ringed crown
wooooof. Wof woof, wf wf wof woof wf Woooooof wof Woof, wof woooof wooof

of geographical empire encircles an imperial brain; then, the plebeian
wf woooooooooof woooof wooooooof wf woooooof wooof; woof, wof woooooof

herds crouch abased before the tremendous centralization. Nor, will the
wooof woooof woooof woooof wof woooooooof woooooooooooof. Wof, woof wof

tragic dramatist who would depict mortal indomitableness in its fullest
woooof wooooooof wof wooof woooof woooof wooooooooooooof wf wof wooooof

sweep and direct swing, ever forget a hint, incidentally so important in
wooof wof woooof wooof, woof woooof w woof, woooooooooof wf wooooooof wf

his art, as the one now alluded to.
wof wof, wf wof wof wof wooooof wf.




But Ahab, my Captain, still moves before me in all his Nantucket
Wof Woof, wf Wooooof, wooof wooof woooof wf wf wof wof Wooooooof

grimness and shagginess; and in this episode touching Emperors and
woooooof wof woooooooof; wof wf woof wooooof woooooof Woooooof wof

Kings, I must not conceal that I have only to do with a poor old
Wooof, W woof wof wooooof woof W woof woof wf wf woof w woof wof

whale-hunter like him; and, therefore, all outward majestical trappings
wooof-woooof woof wof; wof, wooooooof, wof wooooof woooooooof wooooooof

and housings are denied me. Oh, Ahab! what shall be grand in thee, it
wof woooooof wof woooof wf. Wf, Woof! woof wooof wf wooof wf woof, wf

must needs be plucked at from the skies, and dived for in the deep, and
woof wooof wf wooooof wf woof wof wooof, wof wooof wof wf wof woof, wof

featured in the unbodied air!
woooooof wf wof woooooof wof!










CHAPTER 34. The Cabin-Table.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Wooof-Wooof.







It is noon; and Dough-Boy, the steward, thrusting his pale loaf-of-bread
Wf wf woof; wof Wooof-Wof, wof wooooof, wooooooof wof woof woof-wf-wooof

face from the cabin-scuttle, announces dinner to his lord and
woof woof wof wooof-wooooof, wooooooof woooof wf wof woof wof

master; who, sitting in the lee quarter-boat, has just been taking an
woooof; wof, wooooof wf wof wof wooooof-woof, wof woof woof woooof wf

observation of the sun; and is now mutely reckoning the latitude on the
wooooooooof wf wof wof; wof wf wof woooof wooooooof wof woooooof wf wof

smooth, medallion-shaped tablet, reserved for that daily purpose on
woooof, wooooooof-woooof woooof, woooooof wof woof wooof wooooof wf

the upper part of his ivory leg. From his complete inattention to the
wof wooof woof wf wof wooof wof. Woof wof woooooof wooooooooof wf wof

tidings, you would think that moody Ahab had not heard his menial. But
wooooof, wof wooof wooof woof wooof Woof wof wof wooof wof woooof. Wof

presently, catching hold of the mizen shrouds, he swings himself to
wooooooof, woooooof woof wf wof wooof wooooof, wf woooof wooooof wf

the deck, and in an even, unexhilarated voice, saying, "Dinner, Mr.
wof woof, wof wf wf woof, wooooooooooof wooof, woooof, "Woooof, Wf.

Starbuck," disappears into the cabin.
Woooooof," woooooooof woof wof wooof.




When the last echo of his sultan's step has died away, and Starbuck, the
Woof wof woof woof wf wof woooof'w woof wof woof woof, wof Woooooof, wof

first Emir, has every reason to suppose that he is seated, then Starbuck
wooof Woof, wof wooof woooof wf wooooof woof wf wf woooof, woof Woooooof

rouses from his quietude, takes a few turns along the planks, and, after
woooof woof wof woooooof, wooof w wof wooof wooof wof woooof, wof, wooof

a grave peep into the binnacle, says, with some touch of pleasantness,
w wooof woof woof wof woooooof, woof, woof woof wooof wf woooooooooof,

"Dinner, Mr. Stubb," and descends the scuttle. The second Emir lounges
"Woooof, Wf. Wooof," wof woooooof wof wooooof. Wof woooof Woof wooooof

about the rigging awhile, and then slightly shaking the main brace, to
wooof wof wooooof woooof, wof woof woooooof wooooof wof woof wooof, wf

see whether it will be all right with that important rope, he likewise
wof wooooof wf woof wf wof wooof woof woof wooooooof woof, wf woooooof

takes up the old burden, and with a rapid "Dinner, Mr. Flask," follows
wooof wf wof wof woooof, wof woof w wooof "Woooof, Wf. Wooof," wooooof

after his predecessors.
wooof wof woooooooooof.




But the third Emir, now seeing himself all alone on the quarter-deck,
Wof wof wooof Woof, wof woooof wooooof wof wooof wf wof wooooof-woof,

seems to feel relieved from some curious restraint; for, tipping all
wooof wf woof woooooof woof woof wooooof wooooooof; wof, wooooof wof

sorts of knowing winks in all sorts of directions, and kicking off his
wooof wf wooooof wooof wf wof wooof wf woooooooof, wof wooooof wof wof

shoes, he strikes into a sharp but noiseless squall of a hornpipe right
wooof, wf wooooof woof w wooof wof wooooooof woooof wf w woooooof wooof

over the Grand Turk's head; and then, by a dexterous sleight, pitching
woof wof Wooof Woof'w woof; wof woof, wf w wooooooof wooooof, woooooof

his cap up into the mizentop for a shelf, he goes down rollicking so
wof wof wf woof wof woooooof wof w wooof, wf woof woof woooooooof wf

far at least as he remains visible from the deck, reversing all other
wof wf wooof wf wf wooooof wooooof woof wof woof, wooooooof wof wooof

processions, by bringing up the rear with music. But ere stepping into
wooooooooof, wf woooooof wf wof woof woof wooof. Wof wof woooooof woof

the cabin doorway below, he pauses, ships a new face altogether, and,
wof wooof wooooof wooof, wf woooof, wooof w wof woof woooooooof, wof,

then, independent, hilarious little Flask enters King Ahab's presence,
woof, wooooooooof, wooooooof woooof Wooof woooof Woof Woof'w woooooof,

in the character of Abjectus, or the Slave.
wf wof wooooooof wf Woooooof, wf wof Wooof.




It is not the least among the strange things bred by the intense
Wf wf wof wof wooof wooof wof wooooof woooof woof wf wof wooooof

artificialness of sea-usages, that while in the open air of the deck
woooooooooooof wf wof-woooof, woof wooof wf wof woof wof wf wof woof

some officers will, upon provocation, bear themselves boldly and
woof woooooof woof, woof wooooooooof, woof woooooooof woooof wof

defyingly enough towards their commander; yet, ten to one, let those
wooooooof woooof wooooof wooof wooooooof; wof, wof wf wof, wof wooof

very officers the next moment go down to their customary dinner in that
woof woooooof wof woof woooof wf woof wf wooof wooooooof woooof wf woof

same commander's cabin, and straightway their inoffensive, not to say
woof wooooooof'w wooof, wof wooooooooof wooof wooooooooof, wof wf wof

deprecatory and humble air towards him, as he sits at the head of
wooooooooof wof woooof wof wooooof wof, wf wf woof wf wof woof wf

the table; this is marvellous, sometimes most comical. Wherefore this
wof wooof; woof wf woooooooof, wooooooof woof wooooof. Wooooooof woof

difference? A problem? Perhaps not. To have been Belshazzar, King of
woooooooof? W wooooof? Wooooof wof. Wf woof woof Woooooooof, Woof wf

Babylon; and to have been Belshazzar, not haughtily but courteously,
Wooooof; wof wf woof woof Woooooooof, wof wooooooof wof wooooooooof,

therein certainly must have been some touch of mundane grandeur. But he
wooooof wooooooof woof woof woof woof wooof wf wooooof woooooof. Wof wf

who in the rightly regal and intelligent spirit presides over his own
wof wf wof wooooof wooof wof wooooooooof woooof woooooof woof wof wof

private dinner-table of invited guests, that man's unchallenged power
wooooof woooof-wooof wf wooooof woooof, woof wof'w woooooooooof wooof

and dominion of individual influence for the time; that man's royalty of
wof woooooof wf woooooooof wooooooof wof wof woof; woof wof'w wooooof wf

state transcends Belshazzar's, for Belshazzar was not the greatest. Who
wooof woooooooof Woooooooof'w, wof Woooooooof wof wof wof woooooof. Wof

has but once dined his friends, has tasted what it is to be Caesar. It
wof wof woof wooof wof wooooof, wof woooof woof wf wf wf wf Woooof. Wf

is a witchery of social czarship which there is no withstanding. Now,
wf w woooooof wf woooof woooooof wooof wooof wf wf woooooooooof. Wof,

if to this consideration you superadd the official supremacy of a
wf wf woof wooooooooooof wof woooooof wof woooooof wooooooof wf w

ship-master, then, by inference, you will derive the cause of that
woof-woooof, woof, wf wooooooof, wof woof woooof wof wooof wf woof

peculiarity of sea-life just mentioned.
wooooooooof wf wof-woof woof wooooooof.




Over his ivory-inlaid table, Ahab presided like a mute, maned
Woof wof wooof-woooof wooof, Woof woooooof woof w woof, wooof

sea-lion on the white coral beach, surrounded by his warlike but still
wof-woof wf wof wooof wooof wooof, woooooooof wf wof wooooof wof wooof

deferential cubs. In his own proper turn, each officer waited to be
wooooooooof woof. Wf wof wof woooof woof, woof wooooof woooof wf wf

served. They were as little children before Ahab; and yet, in Ahab,
woooof. Woof woof wf woooof woooooof woooof Woof; wof wof, wf Woof,

there seemed not to lurk the smallest social arrogance. With one mind,
wooof woooof wof wf woof wof woooooof woooof wooooooof. Woof wof woof,

their intent eyes all fastened upon the old man's knife, as he carved
wooof woooof woof wof woooooof woof wof wof wof'w wooof, wf wf woooof

the chief dish before him. I do not suppose that for the world they
wof wooof woof woooof wof. W wf wof wooooof woof wof wof wooof woof

would have profaned that moment with the slightest observation, even
wooof woof woooooof woof woooof woof wof wooooooof wooooooooof, woof

upon so neutral a topic as the weather. No! And when reaching out his
woof wf wooooof w wooof wf wof wooooof. Wf! Wof woof woooooof wof wof

knife and fork, between which the slice of beef was locked, Ahab thereby
wooof wof woof, wooooof wooof wof wooof wf woof wof woooof, Woof wooooof

motioned Starbuck's plate towards him, the mate received his meat as
woooooof Woooooof'w wooof wooooof wof, wof woof woooooof wof woof wf

though receiving alms; and cut it tenderly; and a little started
woooof wooooooof woof; wof wof wf woooooof; wof w woooof wooooof

if, perchance, the knife grazed against the plate; and chewed it
wf, wooooooof, wof wooof woooof wooooof wof wooof; wof woooof wf

noiselessly; and swallowed it, not without circumspection. For, like
wooooooooof; wof wooooooof wf, wof wooooof woooooooooooof. Wof, woof

the Coronation banquet at Frankfort, where the German Emperor profoundly
wof Woooooooof wooooof wf Wooooooof, wooof wof Woooof Wooooof woooooooof

dines with the seven Imperial Electors, so these cabin meals were
wooof woof wof wooof Woooooof Woooooof, wf wooof wooof wooof woof

somehow solemn meals, eaten in awful silence; and yet at table old Ahab
wooooof woooof wooof, wooof wf wooof wooooof; wof wof wf wooof wof Woof

forbade not conversation; only he himself was dumb. What a relief it was
wooooof wof woooooooooof; woof wf wooooof wof woof. Woof w woooof wf wof

to choking Stubb, when a rat made a sudden racket in the hold below. And
wf wooooof Wooof, woof w wof woof w woooof woooof wf wof woof wooof. Wof

poor little Flask, he was the youngest son, and little boy of this weary
woof woooof Wooof, wf wof wof woooooof wof, wof woooof wof wf woof wooof

family party. His were the shinbones of the saline beef; his would have
woooof wooof. Wof woof wof wooooooof wf wof woooof woof; wof wooof woof

been the drumsticks. For Flask to have presumed to help himself, this
woof wof woooooooof. Wof Wooof wf woof woooooof wf woof wooooof, woof

must have seemed to him tantamount to larceny in the first degree. Had
woof woof woooof wf wof woooooooof wf wooooof wf wof wooof woooof. Wof

he helped himself at that table, doubtless, never more would he have
wf woooof wooooof wf woof wooof, wooooooof, wooof woof wooof wf woof

been able to hold his head up in this honest world; nevertheless,
woof woof wf woof wof woof wf wf woof woooof wooof; woooooooooof,

strange to say, Ahab never forbade him. And had Flask helped himself,
wooooof wf wof, Woof wooof wooooof wof. Wof wof Wooof woooof wooooof,

the chances were Ahab had never so much as noticed it. Least of all, did
wof wooooof woof Woof wof wooof wf woof wf wooooof wf. Wooof wf wof, wof

Flask presume to help himself to butter. Whether he thought the owners
Wooof wooooof wf woof wooooof wf woooof. Wooooof wf wooooof wof woooof

of the ship denied it to him, on account of its clotting his clear,
wf wof woof woooof wf wf wof, wf wooooof wf wof woooooof wof wooof,

sunny complexion; or whether he deemed that, on so long a voyage in such
wooof woooooooof; wf wooooof wf woooof woof, wf wf woof w woooof wf woof

marketless waters, butter was at a premium, and therefore was not for
woooooooof woooof, woooof wof wf w wooooof, wof wooooooof wof wof wof

him, a subaltern; however it was, Flask, alas! was a butterless man!
wof, w wooooooof; wooooof wf wof, Wooof, woof! wof w woooooooof wof!




Another thing. Flask was the last person down at the dinner, and Flask
Wooooof wooof. Wooof wof wof woof woooof woof wf wof woooof, wof Wooof

is the first man up. Consider! For hereby Flask's dinner was badly
wf wof wooof wof wf. Woooooof! Wof woooof Wooof'w woooof wof wooof

jammed in point of time. Starbuck and Stubb both had the start of him;
woooof wf wooof wf woof. Woooooof wof Wooof woof wof wof wooof wf wof;

and yet they also have the privilege of lounging in the rear. If Stubb
wof wof woof woof woof wof wooooooof wf woooooof wf wof woof. Wf Wooof

even, who is but a peg higher than Flask, happens to have but a small
woof, wof wf wof w wof woooof woof Wooof, wooooof wf woof wof w wooof

appetite, and soon shows symptoms of concluding his repast, then Flask
woooooof, wof woof wooof woooooof wf woooooooof wof woooof, woof Wooof

must bestir himself, he will not get more than three mouthfuls that day;
woof woooof wooooof, wf woof wof wof woof woof wooof wooooooof woof wof;

for it is against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to the deck.
wof wf wf wooooof woof wooof wof Wooof wf wooooof Wooof wf wof woof.

Therefore it was that Flask once admitted in private, that ever since he
Wooooooof wf wof woof Wooof woof woooooof wf wooooof, woof woof wooof wf

had arisen to the dignity of an officer, from that moment he had never
wof woooof wf wof wooooof wf wf wooooof, woof woof woooof wf wof wooof

known what it was to be otherwise than hungry, more or less. For what
wooof woof wf wof wf wf wooooooof woof woooof, woof wf woof. Wof woof

he ate did not so much relieve his hunger, as keep it immortal in him.
wf wof wof wof wf woof wooooof wof woooof, wf woof wf woooooof wf wof.

Peace and satisfaction, thought Flask, have for ever departed from
Wooof wof woooooooooof, wooooof Wooof, woof wof woof woooooof woof

my stomach. I am an officer; but, how I wish I could fish a bit of
wf wooooof. W wf wf wooooof; wof, wof W woof W wooof woof w wof wf

old-fashioned beef in the forecastle, as I used to when I was before the
wof-wooooooof woof wf wof woooooooof, wf W woof wf woof W wof woooof wof

mast. There's the fruits of promotion now; there's the vanity of glory:
woof. Wooof'w wof woooof wf wooooooof wof; wooof'w wof woooof wf wooof:

there's the insanity of life! Besides, if it were so that any mere
wooof'w wof woooooof wf woof! Wooooof, wf wf woof wf woof wof woof

sailor of the Pequod had a grudge against Flask in Flask's official
woooof wf wof Woooof wof w woooof wooooof Wooof wf Wooof'w woooooof

capacity, all that sailor had to do, in order to obtain ample vengeance,
woooooof, wof woof woooof wof wf wf, wf wooof wf woooof wooof wooooooof,

was to go aft at dinner-time, and get a peep at Flask through the cabin
wof wf wf wof wf woooof-woof, wof wof w woof wf Wooof wooooof wof wooof

sky-light, sitting silly and dumfoundered before awful Ahab.
wof-wooof, wooooof wooof wof woooooooooof woooof wooof Woof.




Now, Ahab and his three mates formed what may be called the first table
Wof, Woof wof wof wooof wooof woooof woof wof wf woooof wof wooof wooof

in the Pequod's cabin. After their departure, taking place in inverted
wf wof Woooof'w wooof. Wooof wooof wooooooof, woooof wooof wf woooooof

order to their arrival, the canvas cloth was cleared, or rather was
wooof wf wooof wooooof, wof woooof wooof wof wooooof, wf woooof wof

restored to some hurried order by the pallid steward. And then the three
woooooof wf woof wooooof wooof wf wof woooof wooooof. Wof woof wof wooof

harpooneers were bidden to the feast, they being its residuary legatees.
wooooooooof woof woooof wf wof wooof, woof wooof wof wooooooof woooooof.

They made a sort of temporary servants' hall of the high and mighty
Woof woof w woof wf wooooooof woooooof' woof wf wof woof wof woooof

cabin.
wooof.




In strange contrast to the hardly tolerable constraint and nameless
Wf wooooof woooooof wf wof woooof wooooooof woooooooof wof woooooof

invisible domineerings of the captain's table, was the entire care-free
wooooooof woooooooooof wf wof wooooof'w wooof, wof wof woooof woof-woof

license and ease, the almost frantic democracy of those inferior fellows
wooooof wof woof, wof woooof wooooof wooooooof wf wooof woooooof wooooof

the harpooneers. While their masters, the mates, seemed afraid of the
wof wooooooooof. Wooof wooof wooooof, wof wooof, woooof woooof wf wof

sound of the hinges of their own jaws, the harpooneers chewed their food
wooof wf wof woooof wf wooof wof woof, wof wooooooooof woooof wooof woof

with such a relish that there was a report to it. They dined like lords;
woof woof w woooof woof wooof wof w woooof wf wf. Woof wooof woof wooof;

they filled their bellies like Indian ships all day loading with spices.
woof woooof wooof wooooof woof Woooof wooof wof wof wooooof woof woooof.

Such portentous appetites had Queequeg and Tashtego, that to fill out
Woof woooooooof wooooooof wof Woooooof wof Woooooof, woof wf woof wof

the vacancies made by the previous repast, often the pale Dough-Boy was
wof wooooooof woof wf wof woooooof woooof, wooof wof woof Wooof-Wof wof

fain to bring on a great baron of salt-junk, seemingly quarried out of
woof wf wooof wf w wooof wooof wf woof-woof, wooooooof woooooof wof wf

the solid ox. And if he were not lively about it, if he did not go with
wof wooof wf. Wof wf wf woof wof woooof wooof wf, wf wf wof wof wf woof

a nimble hop-skip-and-jump, then Tashtego had an ungentlemanly way of
w woooof wof-woof-wof-woof, woof Woooooof wof wf wooooooooooof wof wf

accelerating him by darting a fork at his back, harpoon-wise. And once
woooooooooof wof wf wooooof w woof wf wof woof, wooooof-woof. Wof woof

Daggoo, seized with a sudden humor, assisted Dough-Boy's memory by
Woooof, woooof woof w woooof wooof, woooooof Wooof-Wof'w woooof wf

snatching him up bodily, and thrusting his head into a great empty
wooooooof wof wf woooof, wof wooooooof wof woof woof w wooof wooof

wooden trencher, while Tashtego, knife in hand, began laying out the
woooof woooooof, wooof Woooooof, wooof wf woof, wooof woooof wof wof

circle preliminary to scalping him. He was naturally a very nervous,
woooof wooooooooof wf woooooof wof. Wf wof wooooooof w woof wooooof,

shuddering sort of little fellow, this bread-faced steward; the progeny
woooooooof woof wf woooof woooof, woof wooof-wooof wooooof; wof wooooof

of a bankrupt baker and a hospital nurse. And what with the standing
wf w woooooof wooof wof w woooooof wooof. Wof woof woof wof woooooof

spectacle of the black terrific Ahab, and the periodical tumultuous
wooooooof wf wof wooof woooooof Woof, wof wof woooooooof woooooooof

visitations of these three savages, Dough-Boy's whole life was one
wooooooooof wf wooof wooof wooooof, Wooof-Wof'w wooof woof wof wof

continual lip-quiver. Commonly, after seeing the harpooneers furnished
wooooooof wof-woooof. Woooooof, wooof woooof wof wooooooooof wooooooof

with all things they demanded, he would escape from their clutches into
woof wof woooof woof woooooof, wf wooof woooof woof wooof woooooof woof

his little pantry adjoining, and fearfully peep out at them through the
wof woooof woooof wooooooof, wof wooooooof woof wof wf woof wooooof wof

blinds of its door, till all was over.
woooof wf wof woof, woof wof wof woof.




It was a sight to see Queequeg seated over against Tashtego, opposing
Wf wof w wooof wf wof Woooooof woooof woof wooooof Woooooof, woooooof

his filed teeth to the Indian's: crosswise to them, Daggoo seated on the
wof wooof wooof wf wof Woooof'w: wooooooof wf woof, Woooof woooof wf wof

floor, for a bench would have brought his hearse-plumed head to the low
wooof, wof w wooof wooof woof wooooof wof woooof-woooof woof wf wof wof

carlines; at every motion of his colossal limbs, making the low cabin
woooooof; wf wooof woooof wf wof woooooof wooof, woooof wof wof wooof

framework to shake, as when an African elephant goes passenger in a
wooooooof wf wooof, wf woof wf Wooooof woooooof woof wooooooof wf w

ship. But for all this, the great negro was wonderfully abstemious,
woof. Wof wof wof woof, wof wooof wooof wof wooooooooof woooooooof,

not to say dainty. It seemed hardly possible that by such comparatively
wof wf wof woooof. Wf woooof woooof woooooof woof wf woof wooooooooooof

small mouthfuls he could keep up the vitality diffused through so broad,
wooof wooooooof wf wooof woof wf wof woooooof woooooof wooooof wf wooof,

baronial, and superb a person. But, doubtless, this noble savage fed
woooooof, wof woooof w woooof. Wof, wooooooof, woof wooof woooof wof

strong and drank deep of the abounding element of air; and through his
woooof wof wooof woof wf wof wooooooof wooooof wf wof; wof wooooof wof

dilated nostrils snuffed in the sublime life of the worlds. Not by
wooooof woooooof wooooof wf wof wooooof woof wf wof woooof. Wof wf

beef or by bread, are giants made or nourished. But Queequeg, he had a
woof wf wf wooof, wof woooof woof wf wooooooof. Wof Woooooof, wf wof w

mortal, barbaric smack of the lip in eating--an ugly sound enough--so
woooof, woooooof wooof wf wof wof wf woooof--wf woof wooof woooof--wf

much so, that the trembling Dough-Boy almost looked to see whether
woof wf, woof wof wooooooof Wooof-Wof woooof woooof wf wof wooooof

any marks of teeth lurked in his own lean arms. And when he would hear
wof wooof wf wooof woooof wf wof wof woof woof. Wof woof wf wooof woof

Tashtego singing out for him to produce himself, that his bones might be
Woooooof wooooof wof wof wof wf wooooof wooooof, woof wof wooof wooof wf

picked, the simple-witted steward all but shattered the crockery hanging
woooof, wof woooof-woooof wooooof wof wof wooooooof wof woooooof wooooof

round him in the pantry, by his sudden fits of the palsy. Nor did the
wooof wof wf wof woooof, wf wof woooof woof wf wof wooof. Wof wof wof

whetstone which the harpooneers carried in their pockets, for their
wooooooof wooof wof wooooooooof wooooof wf wooof wooooof, wof wooof

lances and other weapons; and with which whetstones, at dinner, they
woooof wof wooof wooooof; wof woof wooof woooooooof, wf woooof, woof

would ostentatiously sharpen their knives; that grating sound did not at
wooof woooooooooooof wooooof wooof woooof; woof wooooof wooof wof wof wf

all tend to tranquillize poor Dough-Boy. How could he forget that in his
wof woof wf woooooooooof woof Wooof-Wof. Wof wooof wf woooof woof wf wof

Island days, Queequeg, for one, must certainly have been guilty of some
Woooof woof, Woooooof, wof wof, woof wooooooof woof woof woooof wf woof

murderous, convivial indiscretions. Alas! Dough-Boy! hard fares the
wooooooof, wooooooof wooooooooooof. Woof! Wooof-Wof! woof wooof wof

white waiter who waits upon cannibals. Not a napkin should he carry on
wooof woooof wof wooof woof wooooooof. Wof w woooof woooof wf wooof wf

his arm, but a buckler. In good time, though, to his great delight,
wof wof, wof w wooooof. Wf woof woof, woooof, wf wof wooof wooooof,

the three salt-sea warriors would rise and depart; to his credulous,
wof wooof woof-wof woooooof wooof woof wof woooof; wf wof wooooooof,

fable-mongering ears, all their martial bones jingling in them at every
wooof-wooooooof woof, wof wooof wooooof wooof woooooof wf woof wf wooof

step, like Moorish scimetars in scabbards.
woof, woof Wooooof wooooooof wf wooooooof.




But, though these barbarians dined in the cabin, and nominally lived
Wof, woooof wooof woooooooof wooof wf wof wooof, wof wooooooof wooof

there; still, being anything but sedentary in their habits, they were
wooof; wooof, wooof woooooof wof wooooooof wf wooof woooof, woof woof

scarcely ever in it except at mealtimes, and just before sleeping-time,
woooooof woof wf wf woooof wf wooooooof, wof woof woooof woooooof-woof,

when they passed through it to their own peculiar quarters.
woof woof woooof wooooof wf wf wooof wof woooooof woooooof.




In this one matter, Ahab seemed no exception to most American whale
Wf woof wof woooof, Woof woooof wf wooooooof wf woof Woooooof wooof

captains, who, as a set, rather incline to the opinion that by rights
woooooof, wof, wf w wof, woooof wooooof wf wof wooooof woof wf woooof

the ship's cabin belongs to them; and that it is by courtesy alone that
wof woof'w wooof wooooof wf woof; wof woof wf wf wf woooooof wooof woof

anybody else is, at any time, permitted there. So that, in real truth,
wooooof woof wf, wf wof woof, wooooooof wooof. Wf woof, wf woof wooof,

the mates and harpooneers of the Pequod might more properly be said to
wof wooof wof wooooooooof wf wof Woooof wooof woof woooooof wf woof wf

have lived out of the cabin than in it. For when they did enter it, it
woof wooof wof wf wof wooof woof wf wf. Wof woof woof wof wooof wf, wf

was something as a street-door enters a house; turning inwards for
wof wooooooof wf w woooof-woof woooof w wooof; wooooof wooooof wof

a moment, only to be turned out the next; and, as a permanent thing,
w woooof, woof wf wf woooof wof wof woof; wof, wf w wooooooof wooof,

residing in the open air. Nor did they lose much hereby; in the cabin
woooooof wf wof woof wof. Wof wof woof woof woof woooof; wf wof wooof

was no companionship; socially, Ahab was inaccessible. Though nominally
wof wf wooooooooooof; woooooof, Woof wof woooooooooof. Woooof wooooooof

included in the census of Christendom, he was still an alien to it. He
woooooof wf wof woooof wf Wooooooooof, wf wof wooof wf wooof wf wf. Wf

lived in the world, as the last of the Grisly Bears lived in settled
wooof wf wof wooof, wf wof woof wf wof Woooof Wooof wooof wf wooooof

Missouri. And as when Spring and Summer had departed, that wild Logan of
Woooooof. Wof wf woof Woooof wof Woooof wof woooooof, woof woof Wooof wf

the woods, burying himself in the hollow of a tree, lived out the winter
wof wooof, wooooof wooooof wf wof woooof wf w woof, wooof wof wof woooof

there, sucking his own paws; so, in his inclement, howling old age,
wooof, wooooof wof wof woof; wf, wf wof wooooooof, wooooof wof wof,

Ahab's soul, shut up in the caved trunk of his body, there fed upon the
Woof'w woof, woof wf wf wof wooof wooof wf wof woof, wooof wof woof wof

sullen paws of its gloom!
woooof woof wf wof wooof!










CHAPTER 35. The Mast-Head.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Woof-Woof.







It was during the more pleasant weather, that in due rotation with the
Wf wof woooof wof woof woooooof wooooof, woof wf wof woooooof woof wof

other seamen my first mast-head came round.
wooof woooof wf wooof woof-woof woof wooof.




In most American whalemen the mast-heads are manned almost
Wf woof Woooooof woooooof wof woof-wooof wof woooof woooof

simultaneously with the vessel's leaving her port; even though she may
woooooooooooof woof wof woooof'w wooooof wof woof; woof woooof wof wof

have fifteen thousand miles, and more, to sail ere reaching her proper
woof wooooof woooooof wooof, wof woof, wf woof wof woooooof wof woooof

cruising ground. And if, after a three, four, or five years' voyage
woooooof woooof. Wof wf, wooof w wooof, woof, wf woof wooof' woooof

she is drawing nigh home with anything empty in her--say, an empty vial
wof wf wooooof woof woof woof woooooof wooof wf wof--wof, wf wooof woof

even--then, her mast-heads are kept manned to the last; and not till her
woof--woof, wof woof-wooof wof woof woooof wf wof woof; wof wof woof wof

skysail-poles sail in among the spires of the port, does she altogether
wooooof-wooof woof wf wooof wof woooof wf wof woof, woof wof woooooooof

relinquish the hope of capturing one whale more.
woooooooof wof woof wf wooooooof wof wooof woof.




Now, as the business of standing mast-heads, ashore or afloat, is a very
Wof, wf wof woooooof wf woooooof woof-wooof, woooof wf woooof, wf w woof

ancient and interesting one, let us in some measure expatiate here.
wooooof wof wooooooooof wof, wof wf wf woof wooooof wooooooof woof.

I take it, that the earliest standers of mast-heads were the old
W woof wf, woof wof woooooof woooooof wf woof-wooof woof wof wof

Egyptians; because, in all my researches, I find none prior to them.
Wooooooof; wooooof, wf wof wf woooooooof, W woof woof wooof wf woof.

For though their progenitors, the builders of Babel, must doubtless, by
Wof woooof wooof wooooooooof, wof woooooof wf Wooof, woof wooooooof, wf

their tower, have intended to rear the loftiest mast-head in all Asia,
wooof wooof, woof woooooof wf woof wof woooooof woof-woof wf wof Woof,

or Africa either; yet (ere the final truck was put to it) as that great
wf Woooof woooof; wof (wof wof wooof wooof wof wof wf wf) wf woof wooof

stone mast of theirs may be said to have gone by the board, in the dread
wooof woof wf woooof wof wf woof wf woof woof wf wof wooof, wf wof wooof

gale of God's wrath; therefore, we cannot give these Babel builders
woof wf Wof'w wooof; wooooooof, wf woooof woof wooof Wooof woooooof

priority over the Egyptians. And that the Egyptians were a nation of
woooooof woof wof Wooooooof. Wof woof wof Wooooooof woof w woooof wf

mast-head standers, is an assertion based upon the general belief among
woof-woof woooooof, wf wf wooooooof wooof woof wof wooooof woooof wooof

archaeologists, that the first pyramids were founded for astronomical
woooooooooooof, woof wof wooof woooooof woof wooooof wof woooooooooof

purposes: a theory singularly supported by the peculiar stair-like
woooooof: w woooof woooooooof wooooooof wf wof woooooof wooof-woof

formation of all four sides of those edifices; whereby, with prodigious
wooooooof wf wof woof wooof wf wooof woooooof; wooooof, woof woooooooof

long upliftings of their legs, those old astronomers were wont to mount
woof woooooooof wf wooof woof, wooof wof wooooooooof woof woof wf wooof

to the apex, and sing out for new stars; even as the look-outs of a
wf wof woof, wof woof wof wof wof wooof; woof wf wof woof-woof wf w

modern ship sing out for a sail, or a whale just bearing in sight. In
woooof woof woof wof wof w woof, wf w wooof woof wooooof wf wooof. Wf

Saint Stylites, the famous Christian hermit of old times, who built him
Wooof Woooooof, wof woooof Wooooooof woooof wf wof wooof, wof wooof wof

a lofty stone pillar in the desert and spent the whole latter portion of
w wooof wooof woooof wf wof woooof wof wooof wof wooof woooof wooooof wf

his life on its summit, hoisting his food from the ground with a
wof woof wf wof woooof, woooooof wof woof woof wof woooof woof w

tackle; in him we have a remarkable instance of a dauntless
woooof; wf wof wf woof w woooooooof woooooof wf w wooooooof

stander-of-mast-heads; who was not to be driven from his place by fogs
wooooof-wf-woof-wooof; wof wof wof wf wf woooof woof wof wooof wf woof

or frosts, rain, hail, or sleet; but valiantly facing everything out to
wf woooof, woof, woof, wf wooof; wof wooooooof woooof woooooooof wof wf

the last, literally died at his post. Of modern standers-of-mast-heads
wof woof, wooooooof woof wf wof woof. Wf woooof woooooof-wf-woof-wooof

we have but a lifeless set; mere stone, iron, and bronze men; who,
wf woof wof w woooooof wof; woof wooof, woof, wof woooof wof; wof,

though well capable of facing out a stiff gale, are still entirely
woooof woof wooooof wf woooof wof w wooof woof, wof wooof woooooof

incompetent to the business of singing out upon discovering any strange
wooooooooof wf wof woooooof wf wooooof wof woof wooooooooof wof wooooof

sight. There is Napoleon; who, upon the top of the column of Vendome,
wooof. Wooof wf Woooooof; wof, woof wof wof wf wof woooof wf Wooooof,

stands with arms folded, some one hundred and fifty feet in the air;
woooof woof woof woooof, woof wof wooooof wof wooof woof wf wof wof;

careless, now, who rules the decks below; whether Louis Philippe, Louis
woooooof, wof, wof wooof wof wooof wooof; wooooof Wooof Woooooof, Wooof

Blanc, or Louis the Devil. Great Washington, too, stands high aloft on
Wooof, wf Wooof wof Wooof. Wooof Woooooooof, wof, woooof woof wooof wf

his towering main-mast in Baltimore, and like one of Hercules' pillars,
wof woooooof woof-woof wf Wooooooof, wof woof wof wf Woooooof' wooooof,

his column marks that point of human grandeur beyond which few mortals
wof woooof wooof woof wooof wf wooof woooooof woooof wooof wof wooooof

will go. Admiral Nelson, also, on a capstan of gun-metal, stands his
woof wf. Wooooof Woooof, woof, wf w wooooof wf wof-wooof, woooof wof

mast-head in Trafalgar Square; and ever when most obscured by that
woof-woof wf Wooooooof Woooof; wof woof woof woof woooooof wf woof

London smoke, token is yet given that a hidden hero is there; for
Woooof wooof, wooof wf wof wooof woof w woooof woof wf wooof; wof

where there is smoke, must be fire. But neither great Washington, nor
wooof wooof wf wooof, woof wf woof. Wof wooooof wooof Woooooooof, wof

Napoleon, nor Nelson, will answer a single hail from below, however
Woooooof, wof Woooof, woof woooof w woooof woof woof wooof, wooooof

madly invoked to befriend by their counsels the distracted decks
wooof wooooof wf woooooof wf wooof woooooof wof woooooooof wooof

upon which they gaze; however it may be surmised, that their spirits
woof wooof woof woof; wooooof wf wof wf woooooof, woof wooof wooooof

penetrate through the thick haze of the future, and descry what shoals
wooooooof wooooof wof wooof woof wf wof woooof, wof woooof woof woooof

and what rocks must be shunned.
wof woof wooof woof wf wooooof.




It may seem unwarrantable to couple in any respect the mast-head
Wf wof woof wooooooooooof wf woooof wf wof wooooof wof woof-woof

standers of the land with those of the sea; but that in truth it is
woooooof wf wof woof woof wooof wf wof wof; wof woof wf wooof wf wf

not so, is plainly evinced by an item for which Obed Macy, the sole
wof wf, wf wooooof wooooof wf wf woof wof wooof Woof Woof, wof woof

historian of Nantucket, stands accountable. The worthy Obed tells us,
wooooooof wf Wooooooof, woooof wooooooooof. Wof woooof Woof wooof wf,

that in the early times of the whale fishery, ere ships were regularly
woof wf wof wooof wooof wf wof wooof wooooof, wof wooof woof wooooooof

launched in pursuit of the game, the people of that island erected lofty
woooooof wf wooooof wf wof woof, wof woooof wf woof woooof wooooof wooof

spars along the sea-coast, to which the look-outs ascended by means
wooof wooof wof wof-wooof, wf wooof wof woof-woof woooooof wf wooof

of nailed cleats, something as fowls go upstairs in a hen-house. A few
wf woooof woooof, wooooooof wf wooof wf woooooof wf w wof-wooof. W wof

years ago this same plan was adopted by the Bay whalemen of New Zealand,
wooof wof woof woof woof wof wooooof wf wof Wof woooooof wf Wof Wooooof,

who, upon descrying the game, gave notice to the ready-manned boats nigh
wof, woof wooooooof wof woof, woof woooof wf wof wooof-woooof wooof woof

the beach. But this custom has now become obsolete; turn we then to the
wof wooof. Wof woof woooof wof wof woooof woooooof; woof wf woof wf wof

one proper mast-head, that of a whale-ship at sea. The three mast-heads
wof woooof woof-woof, woof wf w wooof-woof wf wof. Wof wooof woof-wooof

are kept manned from sun-rise to sun-set; the seamen taking their
wof woof woooof woof wof-woof wf wof-wof; wof woooof woooof wooof

regular turns (as at the helm), and relieving each other every two
wooooof wooof (wf wf wof woof), wof wooooooof woof wooof wooof wof

hours. In the serene weather of the tropics it is exceedingly pleasant
wooof. Wf wof woooof wooooof wf wof wooooof wf wf wooooooooof woooooof

the mast-head; nay, to a dreamy meditative man it is delightful. There
wof woof-woof; wof, wf w woooof woooooooof wof wf wf woooooooof. Wooof

you stand, a hundred feet above the silent decks, striding along the
wof wooof, w wooooof woof wooof wof woooof wooof, woooooof wooof wof

deep, as if the masts were gigantic stilts, while beneath you and
woof, wf wf wof wooof woof woooooof woooof, wooof wooooof wof wof

between your legs, as it were, swim the hugest monsters of the sea, even
wooooof woof woof, wf wf woof, woof wof woooof woooooof wf wof wof, woof

as ships once sailed between the boots of the famous Colossus at old
wf wooof woof woooof wooooof wof wooof wf wof woooof Woooooof wf wof

Rhodes. There you stand, lost in the infinite series of the sea, with
Woooof. Wooof wof wooof, woof wf wof woooooof woooof wf wof wof, woof

nothing ruffled but the waves. The tranced ship indolently rolls; the
wooooof wooooof wof wof wooof. Wof wooooof woof woooooooof wooof; wof

drowsy trade winds blow; everything resolves you into languor. For the
woooof wooof wooof woof; woooooooof woooooof wof woof wooooof. Wof wof

most part, in this tropic whaling life, a sublime uneventfulness invests
woof woof, wf woof woooof wooooof woof, w wooooof woooooooooooof wooooof

you; you hear no news; read no gazettes; extras with startling accounts
wof; wof woof wf woof; woof wf woooooof; woooof woof wooooooof woooooof

of commonplaces never delude you into unnecessary excitements; you hear
wf woooooooooof wooof woooof wof woof wooooooooof wooooooooof; wof woof

of no domestic afflictions; bankrupt securities; fall of stocks; are
wf wf woooooof wooooooooof; woooooof woooooooof; woof wf woooof; wof

never troubled with the thought of what you shall have for dinner--for
wooof woooooof woof wof wooooof wf woof wof wooof woof wof woooof--wof

all your meals for three years and more are snugly stowed in casks, and
wof woof wooof wof wooof wooof wof woof wof woooof woooof wf wooof, wof

your bill of fare is immutable.
woof woof wf woof wf wooooooof.




In one of those southern whalesmen, on a long three or four years'
Wf wof wf wooof woooooof wooooooof, wf w woof wooof wf woof wooof'

voyage, as often happens, the sum of the various hours you spend at the
woooof, wf wooof wooooof, wof wof wf wof wooooof wooof wof wooof wf wof

mast-head would amount to several entire months. And it is much to be
woof-woof wooof woooof wf wooooof woooof woooof. Wof wf wf woof wf wf

deplored that the place to which you devote so considerable a portion
woooooof woof wof wooof wf wooof wof woooof wf woooooooooof w wooooof

of the whole term of your natural life, should be so sadly destitute
wf wof wooof woof wf woof wooooof woof, woooof wf wf wooof wooooooof

of anything approaching to a cosy inhabitiveness, or adapted to breed a
wf woooooof wooooooooof wf w woof woooooooooooof, wf wooooof wf wooof w

comfortable localness of feeling, such as pertains to a bed, a hammock,
wooooooooof wooooooof wf wooooof, woof wf woooooof wf w wof, w wooooof,

a hearse, a sentry box, a pulpit, a coach, or any other of those small
w woooof, w woooof wof, w woooof, w wooof, wf wof wooof wf wooof wooof

and snug contrivances in which men temporarily isolate themselves. Your
wof woof woooooooooof wf wooof wof wooooooooof wooooof woooooooof. Woof

most usual point of perch is the head of the t' gallant-mast, where you
woof wooof wooof wf wooof wf wof woof wf wof w' wooooof-woof, wooof wof

stand upon two thin parallel sticks (almost peculiar to whalemen) called
wooof woof wof woof woooooof woooof (woooof woooooof wf woooooof) woooof

the t' gallant cross-trees. Here, tossed about by the sea, the beginner
wof w' wooooof wooof-wooof. Woof, woooof wooof wf wof wof, wof woooooof

feels about as cosy as he would standing on a bull's horns. To be sure,
wooof wooof wf woof wf wf wooof woooooof wf w woof'w wooof. Wf wf woof,

in cold weather you may carry your house aloft with you, in the shape of
wf woof wooooof wof wof wooof woof wooof wooof woof wof, wf wof wooof wf

a watch-coat; but properly speaking the thickest watch-coat is no more
w wooof-woof; wof woooooof woooooof wof woooooof wooof-woof wf wf woof

of a house than the unclad body; for as the soul is glued inside of its
wf w wooof woof wof woooof woof; wof wf wof woof wf wooof woooof wf wof

fleshy tabernacle, and cannot freely move about in it, nor even move out
woooof woooooooof, wof woooof woooof woof wooof wf wf, wof woof woof wof

of it, without running great risk of perishing (like an ignorant pilgrim
wf wf, wooooof wooooof wooof woof wf wooooooof (woof wf woooooof wooooof

crossing the snowy Alps in winter); so a watch-coat is not so much of
woooooof wof wooof Woof wf woooof); wf w wooof-woof wf wof wf woof wf

a house as it is a mere envelope, or additional skin encasing you. You
w wooof wf wf wf w woof woooooof, wf woooooooof woof woooooof wof. Wof

cannot put a shelf or chest of drawers in your body, and no more can you
woooof wof w wooof wf wooof wf wooooof wf woof woof, wof wf woof wof wof

make a convenient closet of your watch-coat.
woof w woooooooof woooof wf woof wooof-woof.




Concerning all this, it is much to be deplored that the mast-heads of a
Woooooooof wof woof, wf wf woof wf wf woooooof woof wof woof-wooof wf w

southern whale ship are unprovided with those enviable little tents
woooooof wooof woof wof woooooooof woof wooof woooooof woooof wooof

or pulpits, called CROW'S-NESTS, in which the look-outs of a Greenland
wf wooooof, woooof WOOF'W-WOOOF, wf wooof wof woof-woof wf w Wooooooof

whaler are protected from the inclement weather of the frozen seas. In
woooof wof wooooooof woof wof wooooooof wooooof wf wof woooof woof. Wf

the fireside narrative of Captain Sleet, entitled "A Voyage among the
wof woooooof wooooooof wf Wooooof Wooof, woooooof "W Woooof wooof wof

Icebergs, in quest of the Greenland Whale, and incidentally for the
Woooooof, wf wooof wf wof Wooooooof Wooof, wof woooooooooof wof wof

re-discovery of the Lost Icelandic Colonies of Old Greenland;" in
wf-wooooooof wf wof Woof Wooooooof Woooooof wf Wof Wooooooof;" wf

this admirable volume, all standers of mast-heads are furnished with
woof wooooooof woooof, wof woooooof wf woof-wooof wof wooooooof woof

a charmingly circumstantial account of the then recently invented
w woooooooof woooooooooooof wooooof wf wof woof woooooof woooooof

CROW'S-NEST of the Glacier, which was the name of Captain Sleet's good
WOOF'W-WOOF wf wof Wooooof, wooof wof wof woof wf Wooooof Wooof'w woof

craft. He called it the SLEET'S CROW'S-NEST, in honour of himself; he
wooof. Wf woooof wf wof WOOOF'W WOOF'W-WOOF, wf woooof wf wooooof; wf

being the original inventor and patentee, and free from all ridiculous
wooof wof woooooof woooooof wof woooooof, wof woof woof wof woooooooof

false delicacy, and holding that if we call our own children after our
wooof woooooof, wof wooooof woof wf wf woof wof wof woooooof wooof wof

own names (we fathers being the original inventors and patentees), so
wof wooof (wf wooooof wooof wof woooooof wooooooof wof wooooooof), wf

likewise should we denominate after ourselves any other apparatus we
woooooof woooof wf woooooooof wooof wooooooof wof wooof wooooooof wf

may beget. In shape, the Sleet's crow's-nest is something like a large
wof wooof. Wf wooof, wof Wooof'w woof'w-woof wf wooooooof woof w wooof

tierce or pipe; it is open above, however, where it is furnished with
woooof wf woof; wf wf woof wooof, wooooof, wooof wf wf wooooooof woof

a movable side-screen to keep to windward of your head in a hard gale.
w wooooof woof-woooof wf woof wf woooooof wf woof woof wf w woof woof.

Being fixed on the summit of the mast, you ascend into it through a
Wooof wooof wf wof woooof wf wof woof, wof woooof woof wf wooooof w

little trap-hatch in the bottom. On the after side, or side next the
woooof woof-wooof wf wof woooof. Wf wof wooof woof, wf woof woof wof

stern of the ship, is a comfortable seat, with a locker underneath for
wooof wf wof woof, wf w wooooooooof woof, woof w woooof woooooooof wof

umbrellas, comforters, and coats. In front is a leather rack, in which
wooooooof, woooooooof, wof wooof. Wf wooof wf w wooooof woof, wf wooof

to keep your speaking trumpet, pipe, telescope, and other nautical
wf woof woof woooooof wooooof, woof, wooooooof, wof wooof woooooof

conveniences. When Captain Sleet in person stood his mast-head in this
woooooooooof. Woof Wooooof Wooof wf woooof wooof wof woof-woof wf woof

crow's-nest of his, he tells us that he always had a rifle with him
woof'w-woof wf wof, wf wooof wf woof wf woooof wof w wooof woof wof

(also fixed in the rack), together with a powder flask and shot, for
(woof wooof wf wof woof), woooooof woof w woooof wooof wof woof, wof

the purpose of popping off the stray narwhales, or vagrant sea unicorns
wof wooooof wf wooooof wof wof wooof wooooooof, wf wooooof wof woooooof

infesting those waters; for you cannot successfully shoot at them from
wooooooof wooof woooof; wof wof woooof woooooooooof wooof wf woof woof

the deck owing to the resistance of the water, but to shoot down upon
wof woof wooof wf wof woooooooof wf wof wooof, wof wf wooof woof woof

them is a very different thing. Now, it was plainly a labor of love
woof wf w woof wooooooof wooof. Wof, wf wof wooooof w wooof wf woof

for Captain Sleet to describe, as he does, all the little detailed
wof Wooooof Wooof wf woooooof, wf wf woof, wof wof woooof woooooof

conveniences of his crow's-nest; but though he so enlarges upon many
woooooooooof wf wof woof'w-woof; wof woooof wf wf woooooof woof woof

of these, and though he treats us to a very scientific account of his
wf wooof, wof woooof wf woooof wf wf w woof woooooooof wooooof wf wof

experiments in this crow's-nest, with a small compass he kept there for
wooooooooof wf woof woof'w-woof, woof w wooof wooooof wf woof wooof wof

the purpose of counteracting the errors resulting from what is called
wof wooooof wf wooooooooooof wof woooof wooooooof woof woof wf woooof

the "local attraction" of all binnacle magnets; an error ascribable to
wof "wooof woooooooof" wf wof woooooof wooooof; wf wooof woooooooof wf

the horizontal vicinity of the iron in the ship's planks, and in the
wof woooooooof woooooof wf wof woof wf wof woof'w woooof, wof wf wof

Glacier's case, perhaps, to there having been so many broken-down
Wooooof'w woof, wooooof, wf wooof woooof woof wf woof woooof-woof

blacksmiths among her crew; I say, that though the Captain is very
wooooooooof wooof wof woof; W wof, woof woooof wof Wooooof wf woof

discreet and scientific here, yet, for all his learned "binnacle
woooooof wof woooooooof woof, wof, wof wof wof wooooof "woooooof

deviations," "azimuth compass observations," and "approximate errors,"
woooooooof," "wooooof wooooof woooooooooof," wof "wooooooooof woooof,"

he knows very well, Captain Sleet, that he was not so much immersed
wf wooof woof woof, Wooooof Wooof, woof wf wof wof wf woof woooooof

in those profound magnetic meditations, as to fail being attracted
wf wooof woooooof woooooof wooooooooof, wf wf woof wooof wooooooof

occasionally towards that well replenished little case-bottle, so nicely
woooooooooof wooooof woof woof wooooooooof woooof woof-woooof, wf woooof

tucked in on one side of his crow's nest, within easy reach of his hand.
woooof wf wf wof woof wf wof woof'w woof, woooof woof wooof wf wof woof.

Though, upon the whole, I greatly admire and even love the brave, the
Woooof, woof wof wooof, W wooooof woooof wof woof woof wof wooof, wof

honest, and learned Captain; yet I take it very ill of him that he
woooof, wof wooooof Wooooof; wof W woof wf woof wof wf wof woof wf

should so utterly ignore that case-bottle, seeing what a faithful friend
woooof wf wooooof woooof woof woof-woooof, woooof woof w woooooof woooof

and comforter it must have been, while with mittened fingers and hooded
wof wooooooof wf woof woof woof, wooof woof woooooof wooooof wof woooof

head he was studying the mathematics aloft there in that bird's nest
woof wf wof woooooof wof wooooooooof wooof wooof wf woof woof'w woof

within three or four perches of the pole.
woooof wooof wf woof wooooof wf wof woof.




But if we Southern whale-fishers are not so snugly housed aloft as
Wof wf wf Woooooof wooof-wooooof wof wof wf woooof woooof wooof wf

Captain Sleet and his Greenlandmen were; yet that disadvantage is
Wooooof Wooof wof wof Woooooooooof woof; wof woof woooooooooof wf

greatly counter-balanced by the widely contrasting serenity of those
wooooof wooooof-woooooof wf wof woooof wooooooooof woooooof wf wooof

seductive seas in which we South fishers mostly float. For one, I used
wooooooof woof wf wooof wf Wooof wooooof woooof wooof. Wof wof, W woof

to lounge up the rigging very leisurely, resting in the top to have a
wf woooof wf wof wooooof woof wooooooof, wooooof wf wof wof wf woof w

chat with Queequeg, or any one else off duty whom I might find there;
woof woof Woooooof, wf wof wof woof wof woof woof W wooof woof wooof;

then ascending a little way further, and throwing a lazy leg over the
woof wooooooof w woooof wof wooooof, wof woooooof w woof wof woof wof

top-sail yard, take a preliminary view of the watery pastures, and so at
wof-woof woof, woof w wooooooooof woof wf wof woooof woooooof, wof wf wf

last mount to my ultimate destination.
woof wooof wf wf woooooof wooooooooof.




Let me make a clean breast of it here, and frankly admit that I kept but
Wof wf woof w wooof woooof wf wf woof, wof wooooof wooof woof W woof wof

sorry guard. With the problem of the universe revolving in me, how
wooof wooof. Woof wof wooooof wf wof woooooof wooooooof wf wf, wof

could I--being left completely to myself at such a thought-engendering
wooof W--wooof woof woooooooof wf woooof wf woof w wooooof-wooooooooof

altitude--how could I but lightly hold my obligations to observe all
woooooof--wof wooof W wof wooooof woof wf wooooooooof wf wooooof wof

whale-ships' standing orders, "Keep your weather eye open, and sing out
wooof-wooof' woooooof woooof, "Woof woof wooooof wof woof, wof woof wof

every time."
wooof woof."




And let me in this place movingly admonish you, ye ship-owners of
Wof wof wf wf woof wooof woooooof woooooof wof, wf woof-woooof wf

Nantucket! Beware of enlisting in your vigilant fisheries any lad with
Wooooooof! Woooof wf wooooooof wf woof woooooof wooooooof wof wof woof

lean brow and hollow eye; given to unseasonable meditativeness; and who
woof woof wof woooof wof; wooof wf woooooooooof woooooooooooof; wof wof

offers to ship with the Phaedon instead of Bowditch in his head. Beware
woooof wf woof woof wof Wooooof wooooof wf Woooooof wf wof woof. Woooof

of such an one, I say; your whales must be seen before they can be
wf woof wf wof, W wof; woof woooof woof wf woof woooof woof wof wf

killed; and this sunken-eyed young Platonist will tow you ten wakes
woooof; wof woof woooof-woof wooof Wooooooof woof wof wof wof wooof

round the world, and never make you one pint of sperm the richer. Nor
wooof wof wooof, wof wooof woof wof wof woof wf wooof wof woooof. Wof

are these monitions at all unneeded. For nowadays, the whale-fishery
wof wooof wooooooof wf wof woooooof. Wof woooooof, wof wooof-wooooof

furnishes an asylum for many romantic, melancholy, and absent-minded
wooooooof wf woooof wof woof woooooof, woooooooof, wof woooof-woooof

young men, disgusted with the carking cares of earth, and seeking
wooof wof, wooooooof woof wof wooooof wooof wf wooof, wof wooooof

sentiment in tar and blubber. Childe Harold not unfrequently perches
wooooooof wf wof wof wooooof. Woooof Woooof wof woooooooooof wooooof

himself upon the mast-head of some luckless disappointed whale-ship, and
wooooof woof wof woof-woof wf woof woooooof woooooooooof wooof-woof, wof

in moody phrase ejaculates:--
wf wooof woooof woooooooof:--




"Roll on, thou deep and dark blue ocean, roll! Ten thousand
"Woof wf, woof woof wof woof woof wooof, woof! Wof woooooof

blubber-hunters sweep over thee in vain."
wooooof-wooooof wooof woof woof wf woof."




Very often do the captains of such ships take those absent-minded
Woof wooof wf wof woooooof wf woof wooof woof wooof woooof-woooof

young philosophers to task, upbraiding them with not feeling sufficient
wooof woooooooooof wf woof, woooooooof woof woof wof wooooof woooooooof

"interest" in the voyage; half-hinting that they are so hopelessly lost
"woooooof" wf wof woooof; woof-wooooof woof woof wof wf woooooooof woof

to all honourable ambition, as that in their secret souls they would
wf wof woooooooof woooooof, wf woof wf wooof woooof wooof woof wooof

rather not see whales than otherwise. But all in vain; those young
woooof wof wof woooof woof wooooooof. Wof wof wf woof; wooof wooof

Platonists have a notion that their vision is imperfect; they are
Woooooooof woof w woooof woof wooof woooof wf wooooooof; woof wof

short-sighted; what use, then, to strain the visual nerve? They have
wooof-wooooof; woof wof, woof, wf woooof wof woooof wooof? Woof woof

left their opera-glasses at home.
woof wooof wooof-wooooof wf woof.




"Why, thou monkey," said a harpooneer to one of these lads, "we've been
"Wof, woof woooof," woof w woooooooof wf wof wf wooof woof, "wf'wf woof

cruising now hard upon three years, and thou hast not raised a whale
woooooof wof woof woof wooof wooof, wof woof woof wof woooof w wooof

yet. Whales are scarce as hen's teeth whenever thou art up here."
wof. Woooof wof woooof wf wof'w wooof woooooof woof wof wf woof."

Perhaps they were; or perhaps there might have been shoals of them in
Wooooof woof woof; wf wooooof wooof wooof woof woof woooof wf woof wf

the far horizon; but lulled into such an opium-like listlessness of
wof wof wooooof; wof woooof woof woof wf wooof-woof woooooooooof wf

vacant, unconscious reverie is this absent-minded youth by the blending
woooof, wooooooooof wooooof wf woof woooof-woooof wooof wf wof woooooof

cadence of waves with thoughts, that at last he loses his identity;
wooooof wf wooof woof woooooof, woof wf woof wf wooof wof woooooof;

takes the mystic ocean at his feet for the visible image of that deep,
wooof wof woooof wooof wf wof woof wof wof wooooof wooof wf woof woof,

blue, bottomless soul, pervading mankind and nature; and every
woof, woooooooof woof, wooooooof wooooof wof woooof; wof wooof

strange, half-seen, gliding, beautiful thing that eludes him; every
wooooof, woof-woof, wooooof, wooooooof wooof woof woooof wof; wooof

dimly-discovered, uprising fin of some undiscernible form, seems to him
wooof-woooooooof, woooooof wof wf woof wooooooooooof woof, wooof wf wof

the embodiment of those elusive thoughts that only people the soul by
wof woooooooof wf wooof wooooof woooooof woof woof woooof wof woof wf

continually flitting through it. In this enchanted mood, thy spirit ebbs
wooooooooof woooooof wooooof wf. Wf woof wooooooof woof, wof woooof woof

away to whence it came; becomes diffused through time and space; like
woof wf woooof wf woof; wooooof woooooof wooooof woof wof wooof; woof

Crammer's sprinkled Pantheistic ashes, forming at last a part of every
Wooooof'w wooooooof Wooooooooof wooof, wooooof wf woof w woof wf wooof

shore the round globe over.
wooof wof wooof wooof woof.




There is no life in thee, now, except that rocking life imparted by a
Wooof wf wf woof wf woof, wof, woooof woof wooooof woof woooooof wf w

gently rolling ship; by her, borrowed from the sea; by the sea, from
woooof wooooof woof; wf wof, woooooof woof wof wof; wf wof wof, woof

the inscrutable tides of God. But while this sleep, this dream is on ye,
wof wooooooooof wooof wf Wof. Wof wooof woof wooof, woof wooof wf wf wf,

move your foot or hand an inch; slip your hold at all; and your identity
woof woof woof wf woof wf woof; woof woof woof wf wof; wof woof woooooof

comes back in horror. Over Descartian vortices you hover. And perhaps,
wooof woof wf woooof. Woof Woooooooof woooooof wof wooof. Wof wooooof,

at mid-day, in the fairest weather, with one half-throttled shriek you
wf wof-wof, wf wof wooooof wooooof, woof wof woof-wooooooof woooof wof

drop through that transparent air into the summer sea, no more to rise
woof wooooof woof wooooooooof wof woof wof woooof wof, wf woof wf woof

for ever. Heed it well, ye Pantheists!
wof woof. Woof wf woof, wf Woooooooof!










CHAPTER 36. The Quarter-Deck.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Wooooof-Woof.







(ENTER AHAB: THEN, ALL)
(WOOOF WOOF: WOOF, WOF)







It was not a great while after the affair of the pipe, that one
Wf wof wof w wooof wooof wooof wof woooof wf wof woof, woof wof

morning shortly after breakfast, Ahab, as was his wont, ascended the
wooooof wooooof wooof wooooooof, Woof, wf wof wof woof, woooooof wof

cabin-gangway to the deck. There most sea-captains usually walk at that
wooof-wooooof wf wof woof. Wooof woof wof-woooooof wooooof woof wf woof

hour, as country gentlemen, after the same meal, take a few turns in the
woof, wf wooooof wooooooof, wooof wof woof woof, woof w wof wooof wf wof

garden.
woooof.




Soon his steady, ivory stride was heard, as to and fro he paced his old
Woof wof woooof, wooof woooof wof wooof, wf wf wof wof wf wooof wof wof

rounds, upon planks so familiar to his tread, that they were all over
woooof, woof woooof wf woooooof wf wof wooof, woof woof woof wof woof

dented, like geological stones, with the peculiar mark of his walk. Did
woooof, woof woooooooof woooof, woof wof woooooof woof wf wof woof. Wof

you fixedly gaze, too, upon that ribbed and dented brow; there also,
wof wooooof woof, wof, woof woof woooof wof woooof woof; wooof woof,

you would see still stranger foot-prints--the foot-prints of his one
wof wooof wof wooof woooooof woof-woooof--wof woof-woooof wf wof wof

unsleeping, ever-pacing thought.
woooooooof, woof-woooof wooooof.




But on the occasion in question, those dents looked deeper, even as
Wof wf wof woooooof wf woooooof, wooof wooof woooof woooof, woof wf

his nervous step that morning left a deeper mark. And, so full of his
wof wooooof woof woof wooooof woof w woooof woof. Wof, wf woof wf wof

thought was Ahab, that at every uniform turn that he made, now at the
wooooof wof Woof, woof wf wooof wooooof woof woof wf woof, wof wf wof

main-mast and now at the binnacle, you could almost see that thought
woof-woof wof wof wf wof woooooof, wof wooof woooof wof woof wooooof

turn in him as he turned, and pace in him as he paced; so completely
woof wf wof wf wf woooof, wof woof wf wof wf wf wooof; wf woooooooof

possessing him, indeed, that it all but seemed the inward mould of every
woooooooof wof, woooof, woof wf wof wof woooof wof woooof wooof wf wooof

outer movement.
wooof woooooof.




"D'ye mark him, Flask?" whispered Stubb; "the chick that's in him pecks
"W'wf woof wof, Wooof?" wooooooof Wooof; "wof wooof woof'w wf wof wooof

the shell. 'Twill soon be out."
wof wooof. 'Wooof woof wf wof."




The hours wore on;--Ahab now shut up within his cabin; anon, pacing the
Wof wooof woof wf;--Woof wof woof wf woooof wof wooof; woof, woooof wof

deck, with the same intense bigotry of purpose in his aspect.
woof, woof wof woof wooooof wooooof wf wooooof wf wof woooof.




It drew near the close of day. Suddenly he came to a halt by the
Wf woof woof wof wooof wf wof. Woooooof wf woof wf w woof wf wof

bulwarks, and inserting his bone leg into the auger-hole there, and with
woooooof, wof wooooooof wof woof wof woof wof wooof-woof wooof, wof woof

one hand grasping a shroud, he ordered Starbuck to send everybody aft.
wof woof woooooof w woooof, wf wooooof Woooooof wf woof wooooooof wof.




"Sir!" said the mate, astonished at an order seldom or never given on
"Wof!" woof wof woof, woooooooof wf wf wooof woooof wf wooof wooof wf

ship-board except in some extraordinary case.
woof-wooof woooof wf woof wooooooooooof woof.




"Send everybody aft," repeated Ahab. "Mast-heads, there! come down!"
"Woof wooooooof wof," woooooof Woof. "Woof-wooof, wooof! woof woof!"




When the entire ship's company were assembled, and with curious and not
Woof wof woooof woof'w wooooof woof wooooooof, wof woof wooooof wof wof

wholly unapprehensive faces, were eyeing him, for he looked not unlike
woooof woooooooooooof wooof, woof woooof wof, wof wf woooof wof woooof

the weather horizon when a storm is coming up, Ahab, after rapidly
wof wooooof wooooof woof w wooof wf woooof wf, Woof, wooof wooooof

glancing over the bulwarks, and then darting his eyes among the crew,
woooooof woof wof woooooof, wof woof wooooof wof woof wooof wof woof,

started from his standpoint; and as though not a soul were nigh him
wooooof woof wof woooooooof; wof wf woooof wof w woof woof woof wof

resumed his heavy turns upon the deck. With bent head and half-slouched
wooooof wof wooof wooof woof wof woof. Woof woof woof wof woof-woooooof

hat he continued to pace, unmindful of the wondering whispering among
wof wf wooooooof wf woof, wooooooof wf wof wooooooof woooooooof wooof

the men; till Stubb cautiously whispered to Flask, that Ahab must have
wof wof; woof Wooof woooooooof wooooooof wf Wooof, woof Woof woof woof

summoned them there for the purpose of witnessing a pedestrian feat. But
woooooof woof wooof wof wof wooooof wf woooooooof w woooooooof woof. Wof

this did not last long. Vehemently pausing, he cried:--
woof wof wof woof woof. Woooooooof wooooof, wf wooof:--




"What do ye do when ye see a whale, men?"
"Woof wf wf wf woof wf wof w wooof, wof?"




"Sing out for him!" was the impulsive rejoinder from a score of clubbed
"Woof wof wof wof!" wof wof wooooooof wooooooof woof w wooof wf wooooof

voices.
woooof.




"Good!" cried Ahab, with a wild approval in his tones; observing the
"Woof!" wooof Woof, woof w woof woooooof wf wof wooof; wooooooof wof

hearty animation into which his unexpected question had so magnetically
woooof wooooooof woof wooof wof woooooooof woooooof wof wf woooooooooof

thrown them.
woooof woof.




"And what do ye next, men?"
"Wof woof wf wf woof, wof?"




"Lower away, and after him!"
"Wooof woof, wof wooof wof!"




"And what tune is it ye pull to, men?"
"Wof woof woof wf wf wf woof wf, wof?"




"A dead whale or a stove boat!"
"W woof wooof wf w wooof woof!"




More and more strangely and fiercely glad and approving, grew the
Woof wof woof wooooooof wof woooooof woof wof wooooooof, woof wof

countenance of the old man at every shout; while the mariners began
wooooooooof wf wof wof wof wf wooof wooof; wooof wof woooooof wooof

to gaze curiously at each other, as if marvelling how it was that they
wf woof wooooooof wf woof wooof, wf wf woooooooof wof wf wof woof woof

themselves became so excited at such seemingly purposeless questions.
woooooooof woooof wf wooooof wf woof wooooooof wooooooooof wooooooof.




But, they were all eagerness again, as Ahab, now half-revolving in his
Wof, woof woof wof wooooooof wooof, wf Woof, wof woof-wooooooof wf wof

pivot-hole, with one hand reaching high up a shroud, and tightly, almost
wooof-woof, woof wof woof woooooof woof wf w woooof, wof wooooof, woooof

convulsively grasping it, addressed them thus:--
woooooooooof woooooof wf, wooooooof woof woof:--




"All ye mast-headers have before now heard me give orders about a white
"Wof wf woof-wooooof woof woooof wof wooof wf woof woooof wooof w wooof

whale. Look ye! d'ye see this Spanish ounce of gold?"--holding up a
wooof. Woof wf! w'wf wof woof Wooooof wooof wf woof?"--wooooof wf w

broad bright coin to the sun--"it is a sixteen dollar piece, men. D'ye
wooof woooof woof wf wof wof--"wf wf w wooooof woooof wooof, wof. W'wf

see it? Mr. Starbuck, hand me yon top-maul."
wof wf? Wf. Woooooof, woof wf wof wof-woof."




While the mate was getting the hammer, Ahab, without speaking, was
Wooof wof woof wof wooooof wof woooof, Woof, wooooof woooooof, wof

slowly rubbing the gold piece against the skirts of his jacket, as if
woooof wooooof wof woof wooof wooooof wof woooof wf wof woooof, wf wf

to heighten its lustre, and without using any words was meanwhile
wf woooooof wof woooof, wof wooooof wooof wof wooof wof wooooooof

lowly humming to himself, producing a sound so strangely muffled and
wooof wooooof wf wooooof, wooooooof w wooof wf wooooooof wooooof wof

inarticulate that it seemed the mechanical humming of the wheels of his
woooooooooof woof wf woooof wof woooooooof wooooof wf wof woooof wf wof

vitality in him.
woooooof wf wof.




Receiving the top-maul from Starbuck, he advanced towards the main-mast
Wooooooof wof wof-woof woof Woooooof, wf woooooof wooooof wof woof-woof

with the hammer uplifted in one hand, exhibiting the gold with the
woof wof woooof woooooof wf wof woof, woooooooof wof woof woof wof

other, and with a high raised voice exclaiming: "Whosoever of ye
wooof, wof woof w woof woooof wooof woooooooof: "Wooooooof wf wf

raises me a white-headed whale with a wrinkled brow and a crooked jaw;
woooof wf w wooof-woooof wooof woof w woooooof woof wof w wooooof wof;

whosoever of ye raises me that white-headed whale, with three holes
wooooooof wf wf woooof wf woof wooof-woooof wooof, woof wooof wooof

punctured in his starboard fluke--look ye, whosoever of ye raises me
wooooooof wf wof wooooooof wooof--woof wf, wooooooof wf wf woooof wf

that same white whale, he shall have this gold ounce, my boys!"
woof woof wooof wooof, wf wooof woof woof woof wooof, wf woof!"




"Huzza! huzza!" cried the seamen, as with swinging tarpaulins they
"Wooof! wooof!" wooof wof woooof, wf woof woooooof woooooooof woof

hailed the act of nailing the gold to the mast.
woooof wof wof wf wooooof wof woof wf wof woof.




"It's a white whale, I say," resumed Ahab, as he threw down the topmaul:
"Wf'w w wooof wooof, W wof," wooooof Woof, wf wf wooof woof wof wooooof:

"a white whale. Skin your eyes for him, men; look sharp for white water;
"w wooof wooof. Woof woof woof wof wof, wof; woof wooof wof wooof wooof;

if ye see but a bubble, sing out."
wf wf wof wof w woooof, woof wof."




All this while Tashtego, Daggoo, and Queequeg had looked on with even
Wof woof wooof Woooooof, Woooof, wof Woooooof wof woooof wf woof woof

more intense interest and surprise than the rest, and at the mention
woof wooooof woooooof wof woooooof woof wof woof, wof wf wof wooooof

of the wrinkled brow and crooked jaw they had started as if each was
wf wof woooooof woof wof wooooof wof woof wof wooooof wf wf woof wof

separately touched by some specific recollection.
woooooooof wooooof wf woof woooooof woooooooooof.




"Captain Ahab," said Tashtego, "that white whale must be the same that
"Wooooof Woof," woof Woooooof, "woof wooof wooof woof wf wof woof woof

some call Moby Dick."
woof woof Woof Woof."




"Moby Dick?" shouted Ahab. "Do ye know the white whale then, Tash?"
"Woof Woof?" wooooof Woof. "Wf wf woof wof wooof wooof woof, Woof?"




"Does he fan-tail a little curious, sir, before he goes down?" said the
"Woof wf wof-woof w woooof wooooof, wof, woooof wf woof woof?" woof wof

Gay-Header deliberately.
Wof-Woooof woooooooooof.




"And has he a curious spout, too," said Daggoo, "very bushy, even for a
"Wof wof wf w wooooof wooof, wof," woof Woooof, "woof wooof, woof wof w

parmacetty, and mighty quick, Captain Ahab?"
woooooooof, wof woooof wooof, Wooooof Woof?"




"And he have one, two, three--oh! good many iron in him hide, too,
"Wof wf woof wof, wof, wooof--wf! woof woof woof wf wof woof, wof,

Captain," cried Queequeg disjointedly, "all twiske-tee be-twisk, like
Wooooof," wooof Woooooof woooooooooof, "wof woooof-wof wf-wooof, woof

him--him--" faltering hard for a word, and screwing his hand round and
wof--wof--" wooooooof woof wof w woof, wof woooooof wof woof wooof wof

round as though uncorking a bottle--"like him--him--"
wooof wf woooof wooooooof w woooof--"woof wof--wof--"




"Corkscrew!" cried Ahab, "aye, Queequeg, the harpoons lie all twisted
"Wooooooof!" wooof Woof, "wof, Woooooof, wof woooooof wof wof wooooof

and wrenched in him; aye, Daggoo, his spout is a big one, like a whole
wof woooooof wf wof; wof, Woooof, wof wooof wf w wof wof, woof w wooof

shock of wheat, and white as a pile of our Nantucket wool after the
wooof wf wooof, wof wooof wf w woof wf wof Wooooooof woof wooof wof

great annual sheep-shearing; aye, Tashtego, and he fan-tails like a
wooof woooof wooof-woooooof; wof, Woooooof, wof wf wof-wooof woof w

split jib in a squall. Death and devils! men, it is Moby Dick ye have
wooof wof wf w woooof. Wooof wof woooof! wof, wf wf Woof Woof wf woof

seen--Moby Dick--Moby Dick!"
woof--Woof Woof--Woof Woof!"




"Captain Ahab," said Starbuck, who, with Stubb and Flask, had thus far
"Wooooof Woof," woof Woooooof, wof, woof Wooof wof Wooof, wof woof wof

been eyeing his superior with increasing surprise, but at last seemed
woof woooof wof woooooof woof woooooooof woooooof, wof wf woof woooof

struck with a thought which somewhat explained all the wonder. "Captain
woooof woof w wooooof wooof woooooof wooooooof wof wof woooof. "Wooooof

Ahab, I have heard of Moby Dick--but it was not Moby Dick that took off
Woof, W woof wooof wf Woof Woof--wof wf wof wof Woof Woof woof woof wof

thy leg?"
wof wof?"




"Who told thee that?" cried Ahab; then pausing, "Aye, Starbuck; aye, my
"Wof woof woof woof?" wooof Woof; woof wooooof, "Wof, Woooooof; wof, wf

hearties all round; it was Moby Dick that dismasted me; Moby Dick that
woooooof wof wooof; wf wof Woof Woof woof wooooooof wf; Woof Woof woof

brought me to this dead stump I stand on now. Aye, aye," he shouted with
wooooof wf wf woof woof wooof W wooof wf wof. Wof, wof," wf wooooof woof

a terrific, loud, animal sob, like that of a heart-stricken moose;
w woooooof, woof, woooof wof, woof woof wf w wooof-woooooof wooof;

"Aye, aye! it was that accursed white whale that razeed me; made a poor
"Wof, wof! wf wof woof woooooof wooof wooof woof woooof wf; woof w woof

pegging lubber of me for ever and a day!" Then tossing both arms, with
wooooof woooof wf wf wof woof wof w wof!" Woof wooooof woof woof, woof

measureless imprecations he shouted out: "Aye, aye! and I'll chase him
wooooooooof woooooooooof wf wooooof wof: "Wof, wof! wof W'wf wooof wof

round Good Hope, and round the Horn, and round the Norway Maelstrom, and
wooof Woof Woof, wof wooof wof Woof, wof wooof wof Woooof Wooooooof, wof

round perdition's flames before I give him up. And this is what ye have
wooof wooooooof'w woooof woooof W woof wof wf. Wof woof wf woof wf woof

shipped for, men! to chase that white whale on both sides of land, and
wooooof wof, wof! wf wooof woof wooof wooof wf woof wooof wf woof, wof

over all sides of earth, till he spouts black blood and rolls fin out.
woof wof wooof wf wooof, woof wf woooof wooof wooof wof wooof wof wof.

What say ye, men, will ye splice hands on it, now? I think ye do look
Woof wof wf, wof, woof wf woooof wooof wf wf, wof? W wooof wf wf woof

brave."
wooof."




"Aye, aye!" shouted the harpooneers and seamen, running closer to the
"Wof, wof!" wooooof wof wooooooooof wof woooof, wooooof woooof wf wof

excited old man: "A sharp eye for the white whale; a sharp lance for
wooooof wof wof: "W wooof wof wof wof wooof wooof; w wooof wooof wof

Moby Dick!"
Woof Woof!"




"God bless ye," he seemed to half sob and half shout. "God bless ye,
"Wof wooof wf," wf woooof wf woof wof wof woof wooof. "Wof wooof wf,

men. Steward! go draw the great measure of grog. But what's this long
wof. Wooooof! wf woof wof wooof wooooof wf woof. Wof woof'w woof woof

face about, Mr. Starbuck; wilt thou not chase the white whale? art not
woof wooof, Wf. Woooooof; woof woof wof wooof wof wooof wooof? wof wof

game for Moby Dick?"
woof wof Woof Woof?"




"I am game for his crooked jaw, and for the jaws of Death too, Captain
"W wf woof wof wof wooooof wof, wof wof wof woof wf Wooof wof, Wooooof

Ahab, if it fairly comes in the way of the business we follow; but I
Woof, wf wf woooof wooof wf wof wof wf wof woooooof wf woooof; wof W

came here to hunt whales, not my commander's vengeance. How many barrels
woof woof wf woof woooof, wof wf wooooooof'w wooooooof. Wof woof wooooof

will thy vengeance yield thee even if thou gettest it, Captain Ahab? it
woof wof wooooooof wooof woof woof wf woof wooooof wf, Wooooof Woof? wf

will not fetch thee much in our Nantucket market."
woof wof wooof woof woof wf wof Wooooooof woooof."




"Nantucket market! Hoot! But come closer, Starbuck; thou requirest
"Wooooooof woooof! Woof! Wof woof woooof, Woooooof; woof wooooooof

a little lower layer. If money's to be the measurer, man, and the
w woooof wooof wooof. Wf wooof'w wf wf wof woooooof, wof, wof wof

accountants have computed their great counting-house the globe, by
wooooooooof woof woooooof wooof wooof woooooof-wooof wof wooof, wf

girdling it with guineas, one to every three parts of an inch; then, let
woooooof wf woof wooooof, wof wf wooof wooof wooof wf wf woof; woof, wof

me tell thee, that my vengeance will fetch a great premium HERE!"
wf woof woof, woof wf wooooooof woof wooof w wooof wooooof WOOF!"




"He smites his chest," whispered Stubb, "what's that for? methinks it
"Wf woooof wof wooof," wooooooof Wooof, "woof'w woof wof? woooooof wf

rings most vast, but hollow."
wooof woof woof, wof woooof."




"Vengeance on a dumb brute!" cried Starbuck, "that simply smote thee
"Wooooooof wf w woof wooof!" wooof Woooooof, "woof woooof wooof woof

from blindest instinct! Madness! To be enraged with a dumb thing,
woof woooooof woooooof! Wooooof! Wf wf wooooof woof w woof wooof,

Captain Ahab, seems blasphemous."
Wooooof Woof, wooof wooooooooof."




"Hark ye yet again--the little lower layer. All visible objects, man,
"Woof wf wof wooof--wof woooof wooof wooof. Wof wooooof wooooof, wof,

are but as pasteboard masks. But in each event--in the living act, the
wof wof wf woooooooof wooof. Wof wf woof wooof--wf wof woooof wof, wof

undoubted deed--there, some unknown but still reasoning thing puts forth
wooooooof woof--wooof, woof wooooof wof wooof wooooooof wooof woof wooof

the mouldings of its features from behind the unreasoning mask. If man
wof wooooooof wf wof woooooof woof woooof wof wooooooooof woof. Wf wof

will strike, strike through the mask! How can the prisoner reach outside
woof woooof, woooof wooooof wof woof! Wof wof wof woooooof wooof wooooof

except by thrusting through the wall? To me, the white whale is that
woooof wf wooooooof wooooof wof woof? Wf wf, wof wooof wooof wf woof

wall, shoved near to me. Sometimes I think there's naught beyond. But
woof, woooof woof wf wf. Wooooooof W wooof wooof'w woooof woooof. Wof

'tis enough. He tasks me; he heaps me; I see in him outrageous strength,
'wof woooof. Wf wooof wf; wf wooof wf; W wof wf wof woooooooof woooooof,

with an inscrutable malice sinewing it. That inscrutable thing is
woof wf wooooooooof woooof woooooof wf. Woof wooooooooof wooof wf

chiefly what I hate; and be the white whale agent, or be the white whale
wooooof woof W woof; wof wf wof wooof wooof wooof, wf wf wof wooof wooof

principal, I will wreak that hate upon him. Talk not to me of blasphemy,
wooooooof, W woof wooof woof woof woof wof. Woof wof wf wf wf wooooooof,

man; I'd strike the sun if it insulted me. For could the sun do that,
wof; W'w woooof wof wof wf wf woooooof wf. Wof wooof wof wof wf woof,

then could I do the other; since there is ever a sort of fair play
woof wooof W wf wof wooof; wooof wooof wf woof w woof wf woof woof

herein, jealousy presiding over all creations. But not my master, man,
woooof, woooooof wooooooof woof wof wooooooof. Wof wof wf woooof, wof,

is even that fair play. Who's over me? Truth hath no confines. Take off
wf woof woof woof woof. Wof'w woof wf? Wooof woof wf woooooof. Woof wof

thine eye! more intolerable than fiends' glarings is a doltish
wooof wof! woof wooooooooof woof woooof' woooooof wf w wooooof

stare! So, so; thou reddenest and palest; my heat has melted thee to
wooof! Wf, wf; woof wooooooof wof woooof; wf woof wof woooof woof wf

anger-glow. But look ye, Starbuck, what is said in heat, that thing
wooof-woof. Wof woof wf, Woooooof, woof wf woof wf woof, woof wooof

unsays itself. There are men from whom warm words are small indignity. I
woooof woooof. Wooof wof wof woof woof woof wooof wof wooof wooooooof. W

meant not to incense thee. Let it go. Look! see yonder Turkish cheeks of
wooof wof wf wooooof woof. Wof wf wf. Woof! wof woooof Wooooof woooof wf

spotted tawn--living, breathing pictures painted by the sun. The Pagan
wooooof woof--woooof, wooooooof woooooof wooooof wf wof wof. Wof Wooof

leopards--the unrecking and unworshipping things, that live; and seek,
woooooof--wof wooooooof wof wooooooooooof woooof, woof woof; wof woof,

and give no reasons for the torrid life they feel! The crew, man, the
wof woof wf wooooof wof wof woooof woof woof woof! Wof woof, wof, wof

crew! Are they not one and all with Ahab, in this matter of the whale?
woof! Wof woof wof wof wof wof woof Woof, wf woof woooof wf wof wooof?

See Stubb! he laughs! See yonder Chilian! he snorts to think of it.
Wof Wooof! wf woooof! Wof woooof Wooooof! wf woooof wf wooof wf wf.

Stand up amid the general hurricane, thy one tost sapling cannot,
Wooof wf woof wof wooooof wooooooof, wof wof woof wooooof woooof,

Starbuck! And what is it? Reckon it. 'Tis but to help strike a fin; no
Woooooof! Wof woof wf wf? Woooof wf. 'Wof wof wf woof woooof w wof; wf

wondrous feat for Starbuck. What is it more? From this one poor hunt,
woooooof woof wof Woooooof. Woof wf wf woof? Woof woof wof woof woof,

then, the best lance out of all Nantucket, surely he will not hang back,
woof, wof woof wooof wof wf wof Wooooooof, woooof wf woof wof woof woof,

when every foremast-hand has clutched a whetstone? Ah! constrainings
woof wooof woooooof-woof wof woooooof w wooooooof? Wf! wooooooooooof

seize thee; I see! the billow lifts thee! Speak, but speak!--Aye, aye!
wooof woof; W wof! wof woooof wooof woof! Wooof, wof wooof!--Wof, wof!

thy silence, then, THAT voices thee. (ASIDE) Something shot from my
wof wooooof, woof, WOOF woooof woof. (WOOOF) Wooooooof woof woof wf

dilated nostrils, he has inhaled it in his lungs. Starbuck now is mine;
wooooof woooooof, wf wof wooooof wf wf wof wooof. Woooooof wof wf woof;

cannot oppose me now, without rebellion."
woooof woooof wf wof, wooooof wooooooof."




"God keep me!--keep us all!" murmured Starbuck, lowly.
"Wof woof wf!--woof wf wof!" woooooof Woooooof, wooof.




But in his joy at the enchanted, tacit acquiescence of the mate, Ahab
Wof wf wof wof wf wof wooooooof, wooof woooooooooof wf wof woof, Woof

did not hear his foreboding invocation; nor yet the low laugh from the
wof wof woof wof woooooooof woooooooof; wof wof wof wof wooof woof wof

hold; nor yet the presaging vibrations of the winds in the cordage;
woof; wof wof wof wooooooof woooooooof wf wof wooof wf wof wooooof;

nor yet the hollow flap of the sails against the masts, as for a moment
wof wof wof woooof woof wf wof wooof wooooof wof wooof, wf wof w woooof

their hearts sank in. For again Starbuck's downcast eyes lighted up with
wooof woooof woof wf. Wof wooof Woooooof'w woooooof woof wooooof wf woof

the stubbornness of life; the subterranean laugh died away; the winds
wof woooooooooof wf woof; wof woooooooooof wooof woof woof; wof wooof

blew on; the sails filled out; the ship heaved and rolled as before. Ah,
woof wf; wof wooof woooof wof; wof woof woooof wof woooof wf woooof. Wf,

ye admonitions and warnings! why stay ye not when ye come? But
wf wooooooooof wof woooooof! wof woof wf wof woof wf woof? Wof

rather are ye predictions than warnings, ye shadows! Yet not so much
woooof wof wf wooooooooof woof woooooof, wf wooooof! Wof wof wf woof

predictions from without, as verifications of the foregoing things
wooooooooof woof wooooof, wf wooooooooooof wf wof wooooooof woooof

within. For with little external to constrain us, the innermost
woooof. Wof woof woooof woooooof wf wooooooof wf, wof wooooooof

necessities in our being, these still drive us on.
wooooooooof wf wof wooof, wooof wooof wooof wf wf.




"The measure! the measure!" cried Ahab.
"Wof wooooof! wof wooooof!" wooof Woof.




Receiving the brimming pewter, and turning to the harpooneers, he
Wooooooof wof woooooof woooof, wof wooooof wf wof wooooooooof, wf

ordered them to produce their weapons. Then ranging them before him near
wooooof woof wf wooooof wooof wooooof. Woof wooooof woof woooof wof woof

the capstan, with their harpoons in their hands, while his three mates
wof wooooof, woof wooof woooooof wf wooof wooof, wooof wof wooof wooof

stood at his side with their lances, and the rest of the ship's company
wooof wf wof woof woof wooof woooof, wof wof woof wf wof woof'w wooooof

formed a circle round the group; he stood for an instant searchingly
woooof w woooof wooof wof wooof; wf wooof wof wf wooooof wooooooooof

eyeing every man of his crew. But those wild eyes met his, as the
woooof wooof wof wf wof woof. Wof wooof woof woof wof wof, wf wof

bloodshot eyes of the prairie wolves meet the eye of their leader, ere
wooooooof woof wf wof wooooof woooof woof wof wof wf wooof woooof, wof

he rushes on at their head in the trail of the bison; but, alas! only to
wf woooof wf wf wooof woof wf wof wooof wf wof wooof; wof, woof! woof wf

fall into the hidden snare of the Indian.
woof woof wof woooof wooof wf wof Woooof.




"Drink and pass!" he cried, handing the heavy charged flagon to the
"Wooof wof woof!" wf wooof, wooooof wof wooof wooooof woooof wf wof

nearest seaman. "The crew alone now drink. Round with it, round! Short
wooooof woooof. "Wof woof wooof wof wooof. Wooof woof wf, wooof! Wooof

draughts--long swallows, men; 'tis hot as Satan's hoof. So, so; it
woooooof--woof woooooof, wof; 'wof wof wf Wooof'w woof. Wf, wf; wf

goes round excellently. It spiralizes in ye; forks out at the
woof wooof wooooooooof. Wf woooooooof wf wf; wooof wof wf wof

serpent-snapping eye. Well done; almost drained. That way it went, this
wooooof-woooooof wof. Woof woof; woooof wooooof. Woof wof wf woof, woof

way it comes. Hand it me--here's a hollow! Men, ye seem the years; so
wof wf wooof. Woof wf wf--woof'w w woooof! Wof, wf woof wof wooof; wf

brimming life is gulped and gone. Steward, refill!
woooooof woof wf woooof wof woof. Wooooof, woooof!




"Attend now, my braves. I have mustered ye all round this capstan; and
"Woooof wof, wf woooof. W woof woooooof wf wof wooof woof wooooof; wof

ye mates, flank me with your lances; and ye harpooneers, stand there
wf wooof, wooof wf woof woof woooof; wof wf wooooooooof, wooof wooof

with your irons; and ye, stout mariners, ring me in, that I may in some
woof woof wooof; wof wf, wooof woooooof, woof wf wf, woof W wof wf woof

sort revive a noble custom of my fisherman fathers before me. O men, you
woof woooof w wooof woooof wf wf wooooooof wooooof woooof wf. W wof, wof

will yet see that--Ha! boy, come back? bad pennies come not sooner. Hand
woof wof wof woof--Wf! wof, woof woof? wof wooooof woof wof woooof. Woof

it me. Why, now, this pewter had run brimming again, were't not thou St.
wf wf. Wof, wof, woof woooof wof wof woooooof wooof, woof'w wof woof Wf.

Vitus' imp--away, thou ague!
Wooof' wof--woof, woof woof!




"Advance, ye mates! Cross your lances full before me. Well done! Let
"Wooooof, wf wooof! Wooof woof woooof woof woooof wf. Woof woof! Wof

me touch the axis." So saying, with extended arm, he grasped the
wf wooof wof woof." Wf woooof, woof woooooof wof, wf wooooof wof

three level, radiating lances at their crossed centre; while so doing,
wooof wooof, wooooooof woooof wf wooof wooooof woooof; wooof wf wooof,

suddenly and nervously twitched them; meanwhile, glancing intently from
woooooof wof wooooooof woooooof woof; wooooooof, woooooof woooooof woof

Starbuck to Stubb; from Stubb to Flask. It seemed as though, by some
Woooooof wf Wooof; woof Wooof wf Wooof. Wf woooof wf woooof, wf woof

nameless, interior volition, he would fain have shocked into them the
woooooof, woooooof woooooof, wf wooof woof woof wooooof woof woof wof

same fiery emotion accumulated within the Leyden jar of his own magnetic
woof wooof wooooof wooooooooof woooof wof Woooof wof wf wof wof woooooof

life. The three mates quailed before his strong, sustained, and mystic
woof. Wof wooof wooof wooooof woooof wof woooof, wooooooof, wof woooof

aspect. Stubb and Flask looked sideways from him; the honest eye of
woooof. Wooof wof Wooof woooof woooooof woof wof; wof woooof wof wf

Starbuck fell downright.
Woooooof woof wooooooof.




"In vain!" cried Ahab; "but, maybe, 'tis well. For did ye three but
"Wf woof!" wooof Woof; "wof, wooof, 'wof woof. Wof wof wf wooof wof

once take the full-forced shock, then mine own electric thing, THAT had
woof woof wof woof-woooof wooof, woof woof wof woooooof wooof, WOOF wof

perhaps expired from out me. Perchance, too, it would have dropped ye
wooooof wooooof woof wof wf. Wooooooof, wof, wf wooof woof wooooof wf

dead. Perchance ye need it not. Down lances! And now, ye mates, I do
woof. Wooooooof wf woof wf wof. Woof woooof! Wof wof, wf wooof, W wf

appoint ye three cupbearers to my three pagan kinsmen there--yon three
wooooof wf wooof woooooooof wf wf wooof wooof wooooof wooof--wof wooof

most honourable gentlemen and noblemen, my valiant harpooneers. Disdain
woof woooooooof wooooooof wof woooooof, wf wooooof wooooooooof. Wooooof

the task? What, when the great Pope washes the feet of beggars, using
wof woof? Woof, woof wof wooof Woof woooof wof woof wf wooooof, wooof

his tiara for ewer? Oh, my sweet cardinals! your own condescension, THAT
wof wooof wof woof? Wf, wf wooof wooooooof! woof wof wooooooooooof, WOOF

shall bend ye to it. I do not order ye; ye will it. Cut your seizings
wooof woof wf wf wf. W wf wof wooof wf; wf woof wf. Wof woof woooooof

and draw the poles, ye harpooneers!"
wof woof wof wooof, wf wooooooooof!"




Silently obeying the order, the three harpooneers now stood with the
Woooooof wooooof wof wooof, wof wooof wooooooooof wof wooof woof wof

detached iron part of their harpoons, some three feet long, held, barbs
woooooof woof woof wf wooof woooooof, woof wooof woof woof, woof, wooof

up, before him.
wf, woooof wof.




"Stab me not with that keen steel! Cant them; cant them over! know ye
"Woof wf wof woof woof woof wooof! Woof woof; woof woof woof! woof wf

not the goblet end? Turn up the socket! So, so; now, ye cup-bearers,
wof wof woooof wof? Woof wf wof woooof! Wf, wf; wof, wf wof-wooooof,

advance. The irons! take them; hold them while I fill!" Forthwith,
wooooof. Wof wooof! woof woof; woof woof wooof W woof!" Wooooooof,

slowly going from one officer to the other, he brimmed the harpoon
woooof wooof woof wof wooooof wf wof wooof, wf wooooof wof wooooof

sockets with the fiery waters from the pewter.
wooooof woof wof wooof woooof woof wof woooof.




"Now, three to three, ye stand. Commend the murderous chalices! Bestow
"Wof, wooof wf wooof, wf wooof. Wooooof wof wooooooof woooooof! Woooof

them, ye who are now made parties to this indissoluble league. Ha!
woof, wf wof wof wof woof wooooof wf woof woooooooooof woooof. Wf!

Starbuck! but the deed is done! Yon ratifying sun now waits to sit upon
Woooooof! wof wof woof wf woof! Wof wooooooof wof wof wooof wf wof woof

it. Drink, ye harpooneers! drink and swear, ye men that man the deathful
wf. Wooof, wf wooooooooof! wooof wof wooof, wf wof woof wof wof woooooof

whaleboat's bow--Death to Moby Dick! God hunt us all, if we do not hunt
wooooooof'w wof--Wooof wf Woof Woof! Wof woof wf wof, wf wf wf wof woof

Moby Dick to his death!" The long, barbed steel goblets were lifted;
Woof Woof wf wof wooof!" Wof woof, woooof wooof wooooof woof woooof;

and to cries and maledictions against the white whale, the spirits were
wof wf wooof wof woooooooooof wooooof wof wooof wooof, wof wooooof woof

simultaneously quaffed down with a hiss. Starbuck paled, and turned, and
woooooooooooof wooooof woof woof w woof. Woooooof wooof, wof woooof, wof

shivered. Once more, and finally, the replenished pewter went the rounds
woooooof. Woof woof, wof wooooof, wof wooooooooof woooof woof wof woooof

among the frantic crew; when, waving his free hand to them, they all
wooof wof wooooof woof; woof, woooof wof woof woof wf woof, woof wof

dispersed; and Ahab retired within his cabin.
wooooooof; wof Woof wooooof woooof wof wooof.










CHAPTER 37. Sunset.
WOOOOOF wf. Woooof.







THE CABIN; BY THE STERN WINDOWS; AHAB SITTING ALONE, AND GAZING OUT.
WOF WOOOF; WF WOF WOOOF WOOOOOF; WOOF WOOOOOF WOOOF, WOF WOOOOF WOF.







I leave a white and turbid wake; pale waters, paler cheeks, where'er I
W wooof w wooof wof woooof woof; woof woooof, wooof woooof, wooof'wf W

sail. The envious billows sidelong swell to whelm my track; let them;
woof. Wof wooooof wooooof woooooof wooof wf wooof wf wooof; wof woof;

but first I pass.
wof wooof W woof.




Yonder, by ever-brimming goblet's rim, the warm waves blush like wine.
Woooof, wf woof-woooooof woooof'w wof, wof woof wooof wooof woof woof.

The gold brow plumbs the blue. The diver sun--slow dived from noon--goes
Wof woof woof woooof wof woof. Wof wooof wof--woof wooof woof woof--woof

down; my soul mounts up! she wearies with her endless hill. Is, then,
woof; wf woof woooof wf! wof wooooof woof wof wooooof woof. Wf, woof,

the crown too heavy that I wear? this Iron Crown of Lombardy. Yet is
wof wooof wof wooof woof W woof? woof Woof Wooof wf Woooooof. Wof wf

it bright with many a gem; I the wearer, see not its far flashings; but
wf woooof woof woof w wof; W wof woooof, wof wof wof wof wooooooof; wof

darkly feel that I wear that, that dazzlingly confounds. 'Tis iron--that
woooof woof woof W woof woof, woof woooooooof wooooooof. 'Wof woof--woof

I know--not gold. 'Tis split, too--that I feel; the jagged edge galls
W woof--wof woof. 'Wof wooof, wof--woof W woof; wof woooof woof wooof

me so, my brain seems to beat against the solid metal; aye, steel skull,
wf wf, wf wooof wooof wf woof wooooof wof wooof wooof; wof, wooof wooof,

mine; the sort that needs no helmet in the most brain-battering fight!
woof; wof woof woof wooof wf woooof wf wof woof wooof-wooooooof wooof!




Dry heat upon my brow? Oh! time was, when as the sunrise nobly spurred
Wof woof woof wf woof? Wf! woof wof, woof wf wof wooooof wooof wooooof

me, so the sunset soothed. No more. This lovely light, it lights not me;
wf, wf wof woooof wooooof. Wf woof. Woof woooof wooof, wf woooof wof wf;

all loveliness is anguish to me, since I can ne'er enjoy. Gifted with
wof woooooooof wf wooooof wf wf, wooof W wof wf'wf wooof. Woooof woof

the high perception, I lack the low, enjoying power; damned, most subtly
wof woof woooooooof, W woof wof wof, woooooof wooof; woooof, woof woooof

and most malignantly! damned in the midst of Paradise! Good night--good
wof woof wooooooooof! woooof wf wof wooof wf Woooooof! Woof wooof--woof

night! (WAVING HIS HAND, HE MOVES FROM THE WINDOW.)
wooof! (WOOOOF WOF WOOF, WF WOOOF WOOF WOF WOOOOF.)




'Twas not so hard a task. I thought to find one stubborn, at the least;
'Woof wof wf woof w woof. W wooooof wf woof wof woooooof, wf wof wooof;

but my one cogged circle fits into all their various wheels, and they
wof wf wof woooof woooof woof woof wof wooof wooooof woooof, wof woof

revolve. Or, if you will, like so many ant-hills of powder, they all
wooooof. Wf, wf wof woof, woof wf woof wof-wooof wf woooof, woof wof

stand before me; and I their match. Oh, hard! that to fire others, the
wooof woooof wf; wof W wooof wooof. Wf, woof! woof wf woof woooof, wof

match itself must needs be wasting! What I've dared, I've willed; and
wooof woooof woof wooof wf wooooof! Woof W'wf wooof, W'wf woooof; wof

what I've willed, I'll do! They think me mad--Starbuck does; but I'm
woof W'wf woooof, W'wf wf! Woof wooof wf wof--Woooooof woof; wof W'w

demoniac, I am madness maddened! That wild madness that's only calm
woooooof, W wf wooooof woooooof! Woof woof wooooof woof'w woof woof

to comprehend itself! The prophecy was that I should be dismembered;
wf woooooooof woooof! Wof woooooof wof woof W woooof wf wooooooooof;

and--Aye! I lost this leg. I now prophesy that I will dismember my
wof--Wof! W woof woof wof. W wof woooooof woof W woof wooooooof wf

dismemberer. Now, then, be the prophet and the fulfiller one. That's
wooooooooof. Wof, woof, wf wof wooooof wof wof wooooooof wof. Woof'w

more than ye, ye great gods, ever were. I laugh and hoot at ye, ye
woof woof wf, wf wooof woof, woof woof. W wooof wof woof wf wf, wf

cricket-players, ye pugilists, ye deaf Burkes and blinded Bendigoes!
wooooof-wooooof, wf wooooooof, wf woof Woooof wof wooooof Wooooooof!

I will not say as schoolboys do to bullies--Take some one of your own
W woof wof wof wf woooooooof wf wf wooooof--Woof woof wof wf woof wof

size; don't pommel ME! No, ye've knocked me down, and I am up again; but
woof; wof'w woooof WF! Wf, wf'wf wooooof wf woof, wof W wf wf wooof; wof

YE have run and hidden. Come forth from behind your cotton bags! I have
WF woof wof wof woooof. Woof wooof woof woooof woof woooof woof! W woof

no long gun to reach ye. Come, Ahab's compliments to ye; come and see
wf woof wof wf wooof wf. Woof, Woof'w wooooooooof wf wf; woof wof wof

if ye can swerve me. Swerve me? ye cannot swerve me, else ye swerve
wf wf wof woooof wf. Woooof wf? wf woooof woooof wf, woof wf woooof

yourselves! man has ye there. Swerve me? The path to my fixed purpose is
woooooooof! wof wof wf wooof. Woooof wf? Wof woof wf wf wooof wooooof wf

laid with iron rails, whereon my soul is grooved to run. Over unsounded
woof woof woof wooof, wooooof wf woof wf wooooof wf wof. Woof wooooooof

gorges, through the rifled hearts of mountains, under torrents' beds,
woooof, wooooof wof woooof woooof wf wooooooof, wooof woooooof' woof,

unerringly I rush! Naught's an obstacle, naught's an angle to the iron
woooooooof W woof! Woooof'w wf woooooof, woooof'w wf wooof wf wof woof

way!
wof!










CHAPTER 38. Dusk.
WOOOOOF wf. Woof.







BY THE MAINMAST; STARBUCK LEANING AGAINST IT.
WF WOF WOOOOOOF; WOOOOOOF WOOOOOF WOOOOOF WF.







My soul is more than matched; she's overmanned; and by a madman!
Wf woof wf woof woof wooooof; wof'w woooooooof; wof wf w woooof!

Insufferable sting, that sanity should ground arms on such a field! But
Woooooooooof wooof, woof woooof woooof woooof woof wf woof w wooof! Wof

he drilled deep down, and blasted all my reason out of me! I think I see
wf wooooof woof woof, wof wooooof wof wf woooof wof wf wf! W wooof W wof

his impious end; but feel that I must help him to it. Will I, nill I,
wof wooooof wof; wof woof woof W woof woof wof wf wf. Woof W, woof W,

the ineffable thing has tied me to him; tows me with a cable I have no
wof wooooooof wooof wof woof wf wf wof; woof wf woof w wooof W woof wf

knife to cut. Horrible old man! Who's over him, he cries;--aye, he would
wooof wf wof. Woooooof wof wof! Wof'w woof wof, wf wooof;--wof, wf wooof

be a democrat to all above; look, how he lords it over all below! Oh! I
wf w woooooof wf wof wooof; woof, wof wf wooof wf woof wof wooof! Wf! W

plainly see my miserable office,--to obey, rebelling; and worse yet,
wooooof wof wf wooooooof woooof,--wf woof, wooooooof; wof wooof wof,

to hate with touch of pity! For in his eyes I read some lurid woe would
wf woof woof wooof wf woof! Wof wf wof woof W woof woof wooof wof wooof

shrivel me up, had I it. Yet is there hope. Time and tide flow wide.
wooooof wf wf, wof W wf. Wof wf wooof woof. Woof wof woof woof woof.

The hated whale has the round watery world to swim in, as the small
Wof wooof wooof wof wof wooof woooof wooof wf woof wf, wf wof wooof

gold-fish has its glassy globe. His heaven-insulting purpose, God may
woof-woof wof wof woooof wooof. Wof woooof-wooooooof wooooof, Wof wof

wedge aside. I would up heart, were it not like lead. But my whole
wooof wooof. W wooof wf wooof, woof wf wof woof woof. Wof wf wooof

clock's run down; my heart the all-controlling weight, I have no key to
wooof'w wof woof; wf wooof wof wof-wooooooooof woooof, W woof wf wof wf

lift again.
woof wooof.







[A BURST OF REVELRY FROM THE FORECASTLE.]
[W WOOOF WF WOOOOOF WOOF WOF WOOOOOOOOF.]







Oh, God! to sail with such a heathen crew that have small touch of human
Wf, Wof! wf woof woof woof w wooooof woof woof woof wooof wooof wf wooof

mothers in them! Whelped somewhere by the sharkish sea. The white whale
wooooof wf woof! Wooooof wooooooof wf wof woooooof wof. Wof wooof wooof

is their demigorgon. Hark! the infernal orgies! that revelry is forward!
wf wooof woooooooof. Woof! wof woooooof woooof! woof wooooof wf wooooof!

mark the unfaltering silence aft! Methinks it pictures life. Foremost
woof wof wooooooooof wooooof wof! Woooooof wf woooooof woof. Woooooof

through the sparkling sea shoots on the gay, embattled, bantering
wooooof wof wooooooof wof woooof wf wof wof, wooooooof, wooooooof

bow, but only to drag dark Ahab after it, where he broods within his
wof, wof woof wf woof woof Woof wooof wf, wooof wf woooof woooof wof

sternward cabin, builded over the dead water of the wake, and further
wooooooof wooof, wooooof woof wof woof wooof wf wof woof, wof wooooof

on, hunted by its wolfish gurglings. The long howl thrills me through!
wf, woooof wf wof wooooof wooooooof. Wof woof woof wooooof wf wooooof!

Peace! ye revellers, and set the watch! Oh, life! 'tis in an hour like
Wooof! wf wooooooof, wof wof wof wooof! Wf, woof! 'wof wf wf woof woof

this, with soul beat down and held to knowledge,--as wild, untutored
woof, woof woof woof woof wof woof wf wooooooof,--wf woof, wooooooof

things are forced to feed--Oh, life! 'tis now that I do feel the latent
woooof wof woooof wf woof--Wf, woof! 'wof wof woof W wf woof wof woooof

horror in thee! but 'tis not me! that horror's out of me! and with the
woooof wf woof! wof 'wof wof wf! woof woooof'w wof wf wf! wof woof wof

soft feeling of the human in me, yet will I try to fight ye, ye grim,
woof wooooof wf wof wooof wf wf, wof woof W wof wf wooof wf, wf woof,

phantom futures! Stand by me, hold me, bind me, O ye blessed influences!
wooooof wooooof! Wooof wf wf, woof wf, woof wf, W wf wooooof woooooooof!










CHAPTER 39. First Night Watch.
WOOOOOF wf. Wooof Wooof Wooof.




Fore-Top.
Woof-Wof.




(STUBB SOLUS, AND MENDING A BRACE.)
(WOOOF WOOOF, WOF WOOOOOF W WOOOF.)







Ha! ha! ha! ha! hem! clear my throat!--I've been thinking over it
Wf! wf! wf! wf! wof! wooof wf woooof!--W'wf woof woooooof woof wf

ever since, and that ha, ha's the final consequence. Why so? Because a
woof wooof, wof woof wf, wf'w wof wooof wooooooooof. Wof wf? Wooooof w

laugh's the wisest, easiest answer to all that's queer; and come what
wooof'w wof woooof, wooooof woooof wf wof woof'w wooof; wof woof woof

will, one comfort's always left--that unfailing comfort is, it's all
woof, wof wooooof'w woooof woof--woof wooooooof wooooof wf, wf'w wof

predestinated. I heard not all his talk with Starbuck; but to my poor
wooooooooooof. W wooof wof wof wof woof woof Woooooof; wof wf wf woof

eye Starbuck then looked something as I the other evening felt. Be sure
wof Woooooof woof woooof wooooooof wf W wof wooof wooooof woof. Wf woof

the old Mogul has fixed him, too. I twigged it, knew it; had had the
wof wof Wooof wof wooof wof, wof. W wooooof wf, woof wf; wof wof wof

gift, might readily have prophesied it--for when I clapped my eye upon
woof, wooof wooooof woof woooooooof wf--wof woof W wooooof wf wof woof

his skull I saw it. Well, Stubb, WISE Stubb--that's my title--well,
wof wooof W wof wf. Woof, Wooof, WOOF Wooof--woof'w wf wooof--woof,

Stubb, what of it, Stubb? Here's a carcase. I know not all that may be
Wooof, woof wf wf, Wooof? Woof'w w wooooof. W woof wof wof woof wof wf

coming, but be it what it will, I'll go to it laughing. Such a waggish
woooof, wof wf wf woof wf woof, W'wf wf wf wf woooooof. Woof w wooooof

leering as lurks in all your horribles! I feel funny. Fa, la! lirra,
wooooof wf wooof wf wof woof wooooooof! W woof wooof. Wf, wf! wooof,

skirra! What's my juicy little pear at home doing now? Crying its eyes
woooof! Woof'w wf wooof woooof woof wf woof wooof wof? Woooof wof woof

out?--Giving a party to the last arrived harpooneers, I dare say, gay as
wof?--Woooof w wooof wf wof woof wooooof wooooooooof, W woof wof, wof wf

a frigate's pennant, and so am I--fa, la! lirra, skirra! Oh--
w wooooof'w wooooof, wof wf wf W--wf, wf! wooof, woooof! Wf--




We'll drink to-night with hearts as light, To love, as gay and fleeting
Wf'wf wooof wf-wooof woof woooof wf wooof, Wf woof, wf wof wof woooooof

As bubbles that swim, on the beaker's brim, And break on the lips while
Wf wooooof woof woof, wf wof woooof'w woof, Wof wooof wf wof woof wooof

meeting.
wooooof.







A brave stave that--who calls? Mr. Starbuck? Aye, aye, sir--(ASIDE) he's
W wooof wooof woof--wof wooof? Wf. Woooooof? Wof, wof, wof--(WOOOF) wf'w

my superior, he has his too, if I'm not mistaken.--Aye, aye, sir, just
wf woooooof, wf wof wof wof, wf W'w wof woooooof.--Wof, wof, wof, woof

through with this job--coming.
wooooof woof woof wof--woooof.










CHAPTER 40. Midnight, Forecastle.
WOOOOOF wf. Woooooof, Woooooooof.




HARPOONEERS AND SAILORS.
WOOOOOOOOOF WOF WOOOOOF.




(FORESAIL RISES AND DISCOVERS THE WATCH STANDING, LOUNGING, LEANING, AND
(WOOOOOOF WOOOF WOF WOOOOOOOF WOF WOOOF WOOOOOOF, WOOOOOOF, WOOOOOF, WOF

LYING IN VARIOUS ATTITUDES, ALL SINGING IN CHORUS.)
WOOOF WF WOOOOOF WOOOOOOOF, WOF WOOOOOF WF WOOOOF.)




     Farewell and adieu to you, Spanish ladies!
     Woooooof wof wooof wf wof, Wooooof woooof!

     Farewell and adieu to you, ladies of Spain!
     Woooooof wof wooof wf wof, woooof wf Wooof!

     Our captain's commanded.--
     Wof wooooof'w wooooooof.--




1ST NANTUCKET SAILOR. Oh, boys, don't be sentimental; it's bad for the
WOF WOOOOOOOF WOOOOF. Wf, woof, wof'w wf wooooooooof; wf'w wof wof wof

digestion! Take a tonic, follow me! (SINGS, AND ALL FOLLOW)
wooooooof! Woof w wooof, woooof wf! (WOOOF, WOF WOF WOOOOF)




    Our captain stood upon the deck,
    Wof wooooof wooof woof wof woof,

    A spy-glass in his hand,
    W wof-wooof wf wof woof,

    A viewing of those gallant whales
    W wooooof wf wooof wooooof woooof

    That blew at every strand.
    Woof woof wf wooof woooof.

    Oh, your tubs in your boats, my boys,
    Wf, woof woof wf woof wooof, wf woof,

    And by your braces stand,
    Wof wf woof woooof wooof,

    And we'll have one of those fine whales,
    Wof wf'wf woof wof wf wooof woof woooof,

    Hand, boys, over hand!
    Woof, woof, woof woof!

    So, be cheery, my lads! may your hearts never fail!
    Wf, wf woooof, wf woof! wof woof woooof wooof woof!

    While the bold harpooner is striking the whale!
    Wooof wof woof wooooooof wf woooooof wof wooof!




MATE'S VOICE FROM THE QUARTER-DECK. Eight bells there, forward!
WOOF'W WOOOF WOOF WOF WOOOOOF-WOOF. Wooof wooof wooof, wooooof!




2ND NANTUCKET SAILOR. Avast the chorus! Eight bells there! d'ye hear,
WOF WOOOOOOOF WOOOOF. Wooof wof woooof! Wooof wooof wooof! w'wf woof,

bell-boy? Strike the bell eight, thou Pip! thou blackling! and let me
woof-wof? Woooof wof woof wooof, woof Wof! woof wooooooof! wof wof wf

call the watch. I've the sort of mouth for that--the hogshead mouth.
woof wof wooof. W'wf wof woof wf wooof wof woof--wof woooooof wooof.

So, so, (THRUSTS HIS HEAD DOWN THE SCUTTLE,) Star-bo-l-e-e-n-s, a-h-o-y!
Wf, wf, (WOOOOOF WOF WOOF WOOF WOF WOOOOOF,) Woof-wf-w-w-w-w-w, w-w-w-w!

Eight bells there below! Tumble up!
Wooof wooof wooof wooof! Woooof wf!




DUTCH SAILOR. Grand snoozing to-night, maty; fat night for that. I
WOOOF WOOOOF. Wooof woooooof wf-wooof, woof; wof wooof wof woof. W

mark this in our old Mogul's wine; it's quite as deadening to some as
woof woof wf wof wof Wooof'w woof; wf'w wooof wf wooooooof wf woof wf

filliping to others. We sing; they sleep--aye, lie down there, like
wooooooof wf woooof. Wf woof; woof wooof--wof, wof woof wooof, woof

ground-tier butts. At 'em again! There, take this copper-pump, and hail
woooof-woof wooof. Wf 'wf wooof! Wooof, woof woof woooof-woof, wof woof

'em through it. Tell 'em to avast dreaming of their lasses. Tell 'em
'wf wooooof wf. Woof 'wf wf wooof woooooof wf wooof woooof. Woof 'wf

it's the resurrection; they must kiss their last, and come to judgment.
wf'w wof woooooooooof; woof woof woof wooof woof, wof woof wf woooooof.

That's the way--THAT'S it; thy throat ain't spoiled with eating
Woof'w wof wof--WOOF'W wf; wof woooof wof'w wooooof woof woooof

Amsterdam butter.
Wooooooof woooof.




FRENCH SAILOR. Hist, boys! let's have a jig or two before we ride to
WOOOOF WOOOOF. Woof, woof! wof'w woof w wof wf wof woooof wf woof wf

anchor in Blanket Bay. What say ye? There comes the other watch. Stand
woooof wf Wooooof Wof. Woof wof wf? Wooof wooof wof wooof wooof. Wooof

by all legs! Pip! little Pip! hurrah with your tambourine!
wf wof woof! Wof! woooof Wof! woooof woof woof woooooooof!




PIP. (SULKY AND SLEEPY) Don't know where it is.
WOF. (WOOOF WOF WOOOOF) Wof'w woof wooof wf wf.




FRENCH SAILOR. Beat thy belly, then, and wag thy ears. Jig it, men,
WOOOOF WOOOOF. Woof wof wooof, woof, wof wof wof woof. Wof wf, wof,

I say; merry's the word; hurrah! Damn me, won't you dance? Form, now,
W wof; wooof'w wof woof; woooof! Woof wf, wof'w wof wooof? Woof, wof,

Indian-file, and gallop into the double-shuffle? Throw yourselves! Legs!
Woooof-woof, wof woooof woof wof woooof-wooooof? Wooof woooooooof! Woof!

legs!
woof!




ICELAND SAILOR. I don't like your floor, maty; it's too springy to my
WOOOOOF WOOOOF. W wof'w woof woof wooof, woof; wf'w wof wooooof wf wf

taste. I'm used to ice-floors. I'm sorry to throw cold water on the
wooof. W'w woof wf wof-woooof. W'w wooof wf wooof woof wooof wf wof

subject; but excuse me.
wooooof; wof woooof wf.




MALTESE SAILOR. Me too; where's your girls? Who but a fool would take
WOOOOOF WOOOOF. Wf wof; wooof'w woof wooof? Wof wof w woof wooof woof

his left hand by his right, and say to himself, how d'ye do? Partners! I
wof woof woof wf wof wooof, wof wof wf wooooof, wof w'wf wf? Woooooof! W

must have partners!
woof woof woooooof!




SICILIAN SAILOR. Aye; girls and a green!--then I'll hop with ye; yea,
WOOOOOOF WOOOOF. Wof; wooof wof w wooof!--woof W'wf wof woof wf; wof,

turn grasshopper!
woof wooooooooof!




LONG-ISLAND SAILOR. Well, well, ye sulkies, there's plenty more of us.
WOOF-WOOOOF WOOOOF. Woof, woof, wf wooooof, wooof'w woooof woof wf wf.

Hoe corn when you may, say I. All legs go to harvest soon. Ah! here
Wof woof woof wof wof, wof W. Wof woof wf wf wooooof woof. Wf! woof

comes the music; now for it!
wooof wof wooof; wof wof wf!




AZORE SAILOR. (ASCENDING, AND PITCHING THE TAMBOURINE UP THE SCUTTLE.)
WOOOF WOOOOF. (WOOOOOOOF, WOF WOOOOOOF WOF WOOOOOOOOF WF WOF WOOOOOF.)

Here you are, Pip; and there's the windlass-bitts; up you mount! Now,
Woof wof wof, Wof; wof wooof'w wof woooooof-wooof; wf wof wooof! Wof,

boys! (THE HALF OF THEM DANCE TO THE TAMBOURINE; SOME GO BELOW; SOME
woof! (WOF WOOF WF WOOF WOOOF WF WOF WOOOOOOOOF; WOOF WF WOOOF; WOOF

SLEEP OR LIE AMONG THE COILS OF RIGGING. OATHS A-PLENTY.)
WOOOF WF WOF WOOOF WOF WOOOF WF WOOOOOF. WOOOF W-WOOOOF.)




AZORE SAILOR. (DANCING) Go it, Pip! Bang it, bell-boy! Rig it, dig it,
WOOOF WOOOOF. (WOOOOOF) Wf wf, Wof! Woof wf, woof-wof! Wof wf, wof wf,

stig it, quig it, bell-boy! Make fire-flies; break the jinglers!
woof wf, woof wf, woof-wof! Woof woof-wooof; wooof wof woooooof!




PIP. Jinglers, you say?--there goes another, dropped off; I pound it so.
WOF. Woooooof, wof wof?--wooof woof wooooof, wooooof wof; W wooof wf wf.




CHINA SAILOR. Rattle thy teeth, then, and pound away; make a pagoda of
WOOOF WOOOOF. Woooof wof wooof, woof, wof wooof woof; woof w woooof wf

thyself.
wooooof.







FRENCH SAILOR. Merry-mad! Hold up thy hoop, Pip, till I jump through it!
WOOOOF WOOOOF. Wooof-wof! Woof wf wof woof, Wof, woof W woof wooooof wf!

Split jibs! tear yourselves!
Wooof woof! woof woooooooof!




TASHTEGO. (QUIETLY SMOKING) That's a white man; he calls that fun:
WOOOOOOF. (WOOOOOF WOOOOOF) Woof'w w wooof wof; wf wooof woof wof:

humph! I save my sweat.
wooof! W woof wf wooof.




OLD MANX SAILOR. I wonder whether those jolly lads bethink them of what
WOF WOOF WOOOOF. W woooof wooooof wooof wooof woof wooooof woof wf woof

they are dancing over. I'll dance over your grave, I will--that's
woof wof wooooof woof. W'wf wooof woof woof wooof, W woof--woof'w

the bitterest threat of your night-women, that beat head-winds round
wof wooooooof woooof wf woof wooof-wooof, woof woof woof-wooof wooof

corners. O Christ! to think of the green navies and the green-skulled
wooooof. W Woooof! wf wooof wf wof wooof woooof wof wof wooof-wooooof

crews! Well, well; belike the whole world's a ball, as you scholars have
wooof! Woof, woof; woooof wof wooof wooof'w w woof, wf wof woooooof woof

it; and so 'tis right to make one ballroom of it. Dance on, lads, you're
wf; wof wf 'wof wooof wf woof wof woooooof wf wf. Wooof wf, woof, wof'wf

young; I was once.
wooof; W wof woof.




3D NANTUCKET SAILOR. Spell oh!--whew! this is worse than pulling after
WF WOOOOOOOF WOOOOF. Wooof wf!--woof! woof wf wooof woof wooooof wooof

whales in a calm--give us a whiff, Tash.
woooof wf w woof--woof wf w wooof, Woof.




(THEY CEASE DANCING, AND GATHER IN CLUSTERS. MEANTIME THE SKY
(WOOF WOOOF WOOOOOF, WOF WOOOOF WF WOOOOOOF. WOOOOOOF WOF WOF

DARKENS--THE WIND RISES.)
WOOOOOF--WOF WOOF WOOOF.)




LASCAR SAILOR. By Brahma! boys, it'll be douse sail soon. The sky-born,
WOOOOF WOOOOF. Wf Woooof! woof, wf'wf wf wooof woof woof. Wof wof-woof,

high-tide Ganges turned to wind! Thou showest thy black brow, Seeva!
woof-woof Woooof woooof wf woof! Woof wooooof wof wooof woof, Wooof!




MALTESE SAILOR. (RECLINING AND SHAKING HIS CAP.) It's the waves--the
WOOOOOF WOOOOF. (WOOOOOOOF WOF WOOOOOF WOF WOF.) Wf'w wof wooof--wof

snow's caps turn to jig it now. They'll shake their tassels soon. Now
woof'w woof woof wf wof wf wof. Woof'wf wooof wooof wooooof woof. Wof

would all the waves were women, then I'd go drown, and chassee with them
wooof wof wof wooof woof wooof, woof W'w wf wooof, wof wooooof woof woof

evermore! There's naught so sweet on earth--heaven may not match
woooooof! Wooof'w woooof wf wooof wf wooof--woooof wof wof wooof

it!--as those swift glances of warm, wild bosoms in the dance, when the
wf!--wf wooof wooof wooooof wf woof, woof woooof wf wof wooof, woof wof

over-arboring arms hide such ripe, bursting grapes.
woof-woooooof woof woof woof woof, woooooof woooof.




SICILIAN SAILOR. (RECLINING.) Tell me not of it! Hark ye, lad--fleet
WOOOOOOF WOOOOF. (WOOOOOOOF.) Woof wf wof wf wf! Woof wf, wof--wooof

interlacings of the limbs--lithe swayings--coyings--flutterings! lip!
woooooooooof wf wof wooof--wooof woooooof--wooooof--wooooooooof! wof!

heart! hip! all graze: unceasing touch and go! not taste, observe ye,
wooof! wof! wof wooof: wooooooof wooof wof wf! wof wooof, wooooof wf,

else come satiety. Eh, Pagan? (NUDGING.)
woof woof wooooof. Wf, Wooof? (WOOOOOF.)




TAHITAN SAILOR. (RECLINING ON A MAT.) Hail, holy nakedness of our
WOOOOOF WOOOOF. (WOOOOOOOF WF W WOF.) Woof, woof wooooooof wf wof

dancing girls!--the Heeva-Heeva! Ah! low veiled, high palmed Tahiti! I
wooooof wooof!--wof Wooof-Wooof! Wf! wof woooof, woof woooof Woooof! W

still rest me on thy mat, but the soft soil has slid! I saw thee woven
wooof woof wf wf wof wof, wof wof woof woof wof woof! W wof woof wooof

in the wood, my mat! green the first day I brought ye thence; now worn
wf wof woof, wf wof! wooof wof wooof wof W wooooof wf woooof; wof woof

and wilted quite. Ah me!--not thou nor I can bear the change! How
wof woooof wooof. Wf wf!--wof woof wof W wof woof wof woooof! Wof

then, if so be transplanted to yon sky? Hear I the roaring streams from
woof, wf wf wf woooooooooof wf wof wof? Woof W wof wooooof wooooof woof

Pirohitee's peak of spears, when they leap down the crags and drown the
Wooooooof'w woof wf woooof, woof woof woof woof wof wooof wof wooof wof

villages?--The blast! the blast! Up, spine, and meet it! (LEAPS TO HIS
woooooof?--Wof wooof! wof wooof! Wf, wooof, wof woof wf! (WOOOF WF WOF

FEET.)
WOOF.)




PORTUGUESE SAILOR. How the sea rolls swashing 'gainst the side! Stand
WOOOOOOOOF WOOOOF. Wof wof wof wooof woooooof 'woooof wof woof! Wooof

by for reefing, hearties! the winds are just crossing swords, pell-mell
wf wof wooooof, woooooof! wof wooof wof woof woooooof woooof, woof-woof

they'll go lunging presently.
woof'wf wf wooooof wooooooof.




DANISH SAILOR. Crack, crack, old ship! so long as thou crackest, thou
WOOOOF WOOOOF. Wooof, wooof, wof woof! wf woof wf woof woooooof, woof

holdest! Well done! The mate there holds ye to it stiffly. He's no more
wooooof! Woof woof! Wof woof wooof wooof wf wf wf wooooof. Wf'w wf woof

afraid than the isle fort at Cattegat, put there to fight the Baltic
woooof woof wof woof woof wf Woooooof, wof wooof wf wooof wof Woooof

with storm-lashed guns, on which the sea-salt cakes!
woof wooof-woooof woof, wf wooof wof wof-woof wooof!




4TH NANTUCKET SAILOR. He has his orders, mind ye that. I heard old
WOF WOOOOOOOF WOOOOF. Wf wof wof woooof, woof wf woof. W wooof wof

Ahab tell him he must always kill a squall, something as they burst a
Woof woof wof wf woof woooof woof w woooof, wooooooof wf woof wooof w

waterspout with a pistol--fire your ship right into it!
woooooooof woof w woooof--woof woof woof wooof woof wf!




ENGLISH SAILOR. Blood! but that old man's a grand old cove! We are the
WOOOOOF WOOOOF. Wooof! wof woof wof wof'w w wooof wof woof! Wf wof wof

lads to hunt him up his whale!
woof wf woof wof wf wof wooof!




ALL. Aye! aye!
WOF. Wof! wof!




OLD MANX SAILOR. How the three pines shake! Pines are the hardest sort
WOF WOOF WOOOOF. Wof wof wooof wooof wooof! Wooof wof wof wooooof woof

of tree to live when shifted to any other soil, and here there's none
wf woof wf woof woof wooooof wf wof wooof woof, wof woof wooof'w woof

but the crew's cursed clay. Steady, helmsman! steady. This is the sort
wof wof woof'w woooof woof. Woooof, woooooof! woooof. Woof wf wof woof

of weather when brave hearts snap ashore, and keeled hulls split at sea.
wf wooooof woof wooof woooof woof woooof, wof woooof wooof wooof wf wof.

Our captain has his birthmark; look yonder, boys, there's another in the
Wof wooooof wof wof wooooooof; woof woooof, woof, wooof'w wooooof wf wof

sky--lurid-like, ye see, all else pitch black.
wof--wooof-woof, wf wof, wof woof wooof wooof.




DAGGOO. What of that? Who's afraid of black's afraid of me! I'm quarried
WOOOOF. Woof wf woof? Wof'w woooof wf wooof'w woooof wf wf! W'w woooooof

out of it!
wof wf wf!




SPANISH SAILOR. (ASIDE.) He wants to bully, ah!--the old grudge makes
WOOOOOF WOOOOF. (WOOOF.) Wf wooof wf wooof, wf!--wof wof woooof wooof

me touchy (ADVANCING.) Aye, harpooneer, thy race is the undeniable dark
wf woooof (WOOOOOOOF.) Wof, woooooooof, wof woof wf wof woooooooof woof

side of mankind--devilish dark at that. No offence.
woof wf wooooof--woooooof woof wf woof. Wf wooooof.




DAGGOO (GRIMLY). None.
WOOOOF (WOOOOF). Woof.




ST. JAGO'S SAILOR. That Spaniard's mad or drunk. But that can't be, or
WF. WOOF'W WOOOOF. Woof Woooooof'w wof wf wooof. Wof woof wof'w wf, wf

else in his one case our old Mogul's fire-waters are somewhat long in
woof wf wof wof woof wof wof Wooof'w woof-woooof wof woooooof woof wf

working.
wooooof.




5TH NANTUCKET SAILOR. What's that I saw--lightning? Yes.
WOF WOOOOOOOF WOOOOF. Woof'w woof W wof--wooooooof? Wof.




SPANISH SAILOR. No; Daggoo showing his teeth.
WOOOOOF WOOOOF. Wf; Woooof wooooof wof wooof.




DAGGOO (SPRINGING). Swallow thine, mannikin! White skin, white liver!
WOOOOF (WOOOOOOOF). Wooooof wooof, woooooof! Wooof woof, wooof wooof!




SPANISH SAILOR (MEETING HIM). Knife thee heartily! big frame, small
WOOOOOF WOOOOF (WOOOOOF WOF). Wooof woof woooooof! wof wooof, wooof

spirit!
woooof!




ALL. A row! a row! a row!
WOF. W wof! w wof! w wof!




TASHTEGO (WITH A WHIFF). A row a'low, and a row aloft--Gods and
WOOOOOOF (WOOF W WOOOF). W wof w'wof, wof w wof wooof--Woof wof

men--both brawlers! Humph!
wof--woof woooooof! Wooof!




BELFAST SAILOR. A row! arrah a row! The Virgin be blessed, a row! Plunge
WOOOOOF WOOOOF. W wof! wooof w wof! Wof Woooof wf wooooof, w wof! Woooof

in with ye!
wf woof wf!




ENGLISH SAILOR. Fair play! Snatch the Spaniard's knife! A ring, a ring!
WOOOOOF WOOOOF. Woof woof! Woooof wof Woooooof'w wooof! W woof, w woof!




OLD MANX SAILOR. Ready formed. There! the ringed horizon. In that ring
WOF WOOF WOOOOF. Wooof woooof. Wooof! wof woooof wooooof. Wf woof woof

Cain struck Abel. Sweet work, right work! No? Why then, God, mad'st thou
Woof woooof Woof. Wooof woof, wooof woof! Wf? Wof woof, Wof, wof'wf woof

the ring?
wof woof?




MATE'S VOICE FROM THE QUARTER-DECK. Hands by the halyards! in
WOOF'W WOOOF WOOF WOF WOOOOOF-WOOF. Wooof wf wof woooooof! wf

top-gallant sails! Stand by to reef topsails!
wof-wooooof wooof! Wooof wf wf woof woooooof!




ALL. The squall! the squall! jump, my jollies! (THEY SCATTER.)
WOF. Wof woooof! wof woooof! woof, wf wooooof! (WOOF WOOOOOF.)







PIP (SHRINKING UNDER THE WINDLASS). Jollies? Lord help such jollies!
WOF (WOOOOOOOF WOOOF WOF WOOOOOOF). Wooooof? Woof woof woof wooooof!

Crish, crash! there goes the jib-stay! Blang-whang! God! Duck lower,
Wooof, wooof! wooof woof wof wof-woof! Wooof-wooof! Wof! Woof wooof,

Pip, here comes the royal yard! It's worse than being in the whirled
Wof, woof wooof wof wooof woof! Wf'w wooof woof wooof wf wof wooooof

woods, the last day of the year! Who'd go climbing after chestnuts now?
wooof, wof woof wof wf wof woof! Wof'w wf woooooof wooof wooooooof wof?

But there they go, all cursing, and here I don't. Fine prospects to 'em;
Wof wooof woof wf, wof wooooof, wof woof W wof'w. Woof wooooooof wf 'wf;

they're on the road to heaven. Hold on hard! Jimmini, what a squall!
woof'wf wf wof woof wf woooof. Woof wf woof! Wooooof, woof w woooof!

But those chaps there are worse yet--they are your white squalls, they.
Wof wooof wooof wooof wof wooof wof--woof wof woof wooof wooooof, woof.

White squalls? white whale, shirr! shirr! Here have I heard all their
Wooof wooooof? wooof wooof, wooof! wooof! Woof woof W wooof wof wooof

chat just now, and the white whale--shirr! shirr!--but spoken of
woof woof wof, wof wof wooof wooof--wooof! wooof!--wof woooof wf

once! and only this evening--it makes me jingle all over like my
woof! wof woof woof wooooof--wf wooof wf woooof wof woof woof wf

tambourine--that anaconda of an old man swore 'em in to hunt him! Oh,
woooooooof--woof woooooof wf wf wof wof wooof 'wf wf wf woof wof! Wf,

thou big white God aloft there somewhere in yon darkness, have mercy on
woof wof wooof Wof wooof wooof wooooooof wf wof woooooof, woof wooof wf

this small black boy down here; preserve him from all men that have no
woof wooof wooof wof woof woof; woooooof wof woof wof wof woof woof wf

bowels to feel fear!
woooof wf woof woof!










CHAPTER 41. Moby Dick.
WOOOOOF wf. Woof Woof.







I, Ishmael, was one of that crew; my shouts had gone up with the rest;
W, Wooooof, wof wof wf woof woof; wf woooof wof woof wf woof wof woof;

my oath had been welded with theirs; and stronger I shouted, and more
wf woof wof woof woooof woof woooof; wof woooooof W wooooof, wof woof

did I hammer and clinch my oath, because of the dread in my soul. A
wof W woooof wof woooof wf woof, wooooof wf wof wooof wf wf woof. W

wild, mystical, sympathetical feeling was in me; Ahab's quenchless feud
woof, woooooof, wooooooooooof wooooof wof wf wf; Woof'w woooooooof woof

seemed mine. With greedy ears I learned the history of that murderous
woooof woof. Woof woooof woof W wooooof wof wooooof wf woof wooooooof

monster against whom I and all the others had taken our oaths of
wooooof wooooof woof W wof wof wof woooof wof wooof wof wooof wf

violence and revenge.
woooooof wof wooooof.




For some time past, though at intervals only, the unaccompanied,
Wof woof woof woof, woooof wf wooooooof woof, wof wooooooooooof,

secluded White Whale had haunted those uncivilized seas mostly
woooooof Wooof Wooof wof wooooof wooof wooooooooof woof woooof

frequented by the Sperm Whale fishermen. But not all of them knew of his
woooooooof wf wof Wooof Wooof wooooooof. Wof wof wof wf woof woof wf wof

existence; only a few of them, comparatively, had knowingly seen him;
wooooooof; woof w wof wf woof, wooooooooooof, wof wooooooof woof wof;

while the number who as yet had actually and knowingly given battle to
wooof wof woooof wof wf wof wof woooooof wof wooooooof wooof woooof wf

him, was small indeed. For, owing to the large number of whale-cruisers;
wof, wof wooof woooof. Wof, wooof wf wof wooof woooof wf wooof-woooooof;

the disorderly way they were sprinkled over the entire watery
wof woooooooof wof woof woof wooooooof woof wof woooof woooof

circumference, many of them adventurously pushing their quest along
wooooooooooof, woof wf woof wooooooooooof wooooof wooof wooof wooof

solitary latitudes, so as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth or
woooooof wooooooof, wf wf woooof wf wooof wof w wooof wooooooooof wf

more on a stretch, to encounter a single news-telling sail of any sort;
woof wf w wooooof, wf wooooooof w woooof woof-wooooof woof wf wof woof;

the inordinate length of each separate voyage; the irregularity of the
wof woooooooof woooof wf woof woooooof woooof; wof woooooooooof wf wof

times of sailing from home; all these, with other circumstances, direct
wooof wf wooooof woof woof; wof wooof, woof wooof wooooooooooof, woooof

and indirect, long obstructed the spread through the whole world-wide
wof woooooof, woof woooooooof wof woooof wooooof wof wooof wooof-woof

whaling-fleet of the special individualizing tidings concerning Moby
wooooof-wooof wf wof wooooof wooooooooooooof wooooof woooooooof Woof

Dick. It was hardly to be doubted, that several vessels reported to have
Woof. Wf wof woooof wf wf wooooof, woof wooooof wooooof woooooof wf woof

encountered, at such or such a time, or on such or such a meridian,
wooooooooof, wf woof wf woof w woof, wf wf woof wf woof w woooooof,

a Sperm Whale of uncommon magnitude and malignity, which whale, after
w Wooof Wooof wf woooooof wooooooof wof wooooooof, wooof wooof, wooof

doing great mischief to his assailants, had completely escaped them; to
wooof wooof woooooof wf wof woooooooof, wof woooooooof wooooof woof; wf

some minds it was not an unfair presumption, I say, that the whale in
woof wooof wf wof wof wf woooof wooooooooof, W wof, woof wof wooof wf

question must have been no other than Moby Dick. Yet as of late the
woooooof woof woof woof wf wooof woof Woof Woof. Wof wf wf woof wof

Sperm Whale fishery had been marked by various and not unfrequent
Wooof Wooof wooooof wof woof woooof wf wooooof wof wof woooooooof

instances of great ferocity, cunning, and malice in the monster
wooooooof wf wooof woooooof, wooooof, wof woooof wf wof wooooof

attacked; therefore it was, that those who by accident ignorantly gave
woooooof; wooooooof wf wof, woof wooof wof wf woooooof woooooooof woof

battle to Moby Dick; such hunters, perhaps, for the most part, were
woooof wf Woof Woof; woof wooooof, wooooof, wof wof woof woof, woof

content to ascribe the peculiar terror he bred, more, as it were, to
wooooof wf wooooof wof woooooof woooof wf woof, woof, wf wf woof, wf

the perils of the Sperm Whale fishery at large, than to the individual
wof woooof wf wof Wooof Wooof wooooof wf wooof, woof wf wof woooooooof

cause. In that way, mostly, the disastrous encounter between Ahab and
wooof. Wf woof wof, woooof, wof woooooooof wooooooof wooooof Woof wof

the whale had hitherto been popularly regarded.
wof wooof wof woooooof woof wooooooof woooooof.




And as for those who, previously hearing of the White Whale, by chance
Wof wf wof wooof wof, woooooooof wooooof wf wof Wooof Wooof, wf woooof

caught sight of him; in the beginning of the thing they had every one of
woooof wooof wf wof; wf wof wooooooof wf wof wooof woof wof wooof wof wf

them, almost, as boldly and fearlessly lowered for him, as for any other
woof, woooof, wf woooof wof woooooooof wooooof wof wof, wf wof wof wooof

whale of that species. But at length, such calamities did ensue in these
wooof wf woof wooooof. Wof wf woooof, woof woooooooof wof wooof wf wooof

assaults--not restricted to sprained wrists and ankles, broken limbs, or
woooooof--wof woooooooof wf woooooof woooof wof woooof, woooof wooof, wf

devouring amputations--but fatal to the last degree of fatality; those
wooooooof wooooooooof--wof wooof wf wof woof woooof wf woooooof; wooof

repeated disastrous repulses, all accumulating and piling their terrors
woooooof woooooooof woooooof, wof woooooooooof wof woooof wooof wooooof

upon Moby Dick; those things had gone far to shake the fortitude of many
woof Woof Woof; wooof woooof wof woof wof wf wooof wof wooooooof wf woof

brave hunters, to whom the story of the White Whale had eventually come.
wooof wooooof, wf woof wof wooof wf wof Wooof Wooof wof woooooooof woof.




Nor did wild rumors of all sorts fail to exaggerate, and still the more
Wof wof woof woooof wf wof wooof woof wf woooooooof, wof wooof wof woof

horrify the true histories of these deadly encounters. For not only do
wooooof wof woof wooooooof wf wooof woooof woooooooof. Wof wof woof wf

fabulous rumors naturally grow out of the very body of all surprising
woooooof woooof wooooooof woof wof wf wof woof woof wf wof woooooooof

terrible events,--as the smitten tree gives birth to its fungi; but, in
woooooof woooof,--wf wof wooooof woof wooof wooof wf wof wooof; wof, wf

maritime life, far more than in that of terra firma, wild rumors abound,
woooooof woof, wof woof woof wf woof wf wooof wooof, woof woooof woooof,

wherever there is any adequate reality for them to cling to. And as the
woooooof wooof wf wof woooooof wooooof wof woof wf wooof wf. Wof wf wof

sea surpasses the land in this matter, so the whale fishery surpasses
wof wooooooof wof woof wf woof woooof, wf wof wooof wooooof wooooooof

every other sort of maritime life, in the wonderfulness and fearfulness
wooof wooof woof wf woooooof woof, wf wof wooooooooooof wof wooooooooof

of the rumors which sometimes circulate there. For not only are whalemen
wf wof woooof wooof wooooooof wooooooof wooof. Wof wof woof wof woooooof

as a body unexempt from that ignorance and superstitiousness hereditary
wf w woof woooooof woof woof wooooooof wof wooooooooooooooof woooooooof

to all sailors; but of all sailors, they are by all odds the most
wf wof wooooof; wof wf wof wooooof, woof wof wf wof woof wof woof

directly brought into contact with whatever is appallingly astonishing
woooooof wooooof woof wooooof woof woooooof wf wooooooooof wooooooooof

in the sea; face to face they not only eye its greatest marvels, but,
wf wof wof; woof wf woof woof wof woof wof wof woooooof wooooof, wof,

hand to jaw, give battle to them. Alone, in such remotest waters, that
woof wf wof, woof woooof wf woof. Wooof, wf woof woooooof woooof, woof

though you sailed a thousand miles, and passed a thousand shores, you
woooof wof woooof w woooooof wooof, wof woooof w woooooof woooof, wof

would not come to any chiseled hearth-stone, or aught hospitable beneath
wooof wof woof wf wof woooooof woooof-wooof, wf wooof woooooooof wooooof

that part of the sun; in such latitudes and longitudes, pursuing too
woof woof wf wof wof; wf woof wooooooof wof woooooooof, woooooof wof

such a calling as he does, the whaleman is wrapped by influences all
woof w wooooof wf wf woof, wof woooooof wf wooooof wf woooooooof wof

tending to make his fancy pregnant with many a mighty birth.
wooooof wf woof wof wooof woooooof woof woof w woooof wooof.




No wonder, then, that ever gathering volume from the mere transit over
Wf woooof, woof, woof woof wooooooof woooof woof wof woof wooooof woof

the widest watery spaces, the outblown rumors of the White Whale did
wof woooof woooof woooof, wof woooooof woooof wf wof Wooof Wooof wof

in the end incorporate with themselves all manner of morbid hints,
wf wof wof wooooooooof woof woooooooof wof woooof wf woooof wooof,

and half-formed foetal suggestions of supernatural agencies, which
wof woof-woooof woooof wooooooooof wf woooooooooof woooooof, wooof

eventually invested Moby Dick with new terrors unborrowed from anything
woooooooof woooooof Woof Woof woof wof wooooof woooooooof woof woooooof

that visibly appears. So that in many cases such a panic did he finally
woof wooooof wooooof. Wf woof wf woof wooof woof w wooof wof wf wooooof

strike, that few who by those rumors, at least, had heard of the White
woooof, woof wof wof wf wooof woooof, wf wooof, wof wooof wf wof Wooof

Whale, few of those hunters were willing to encounter the perils of his
Wooof, wof wf wooof wooooof woof wooooof wf wooooooof wof woooof wf wof

jaw.
wof.




But there were still other and more vital practical influences at work.
Wof wooof woof wooof wooof wof woof wooof wooooooof woooooooof wf woof.

Not even at the present day has the original prestige of the Sperm
Wof woof wf wof wooooof wof wof wof woooooof woooooof wf wof Wooof

Whale, as fearfully distinguished from all other species of the
Wooof, wf wooooooof wooooooooooof woof wof wooof wooooof wf wof

leviathan, died out of the minds of the whalemen as a body. There are
wooooooof, woof wof wf wof wooof wf wof woooooof wf w woof. Wooof wof

those this day among them, who, though intelligent and courageous
wooof woof wof wooof woof, wof, woooof wooooooooof wof woooooooof

enough in offering battle to the Greenland or Right whale, would
woooof wf woooooof woooof wf wof Wooooooof wf Wooof wooof, wooof

perhaps--either from professional inexperience, or incompetency, or
wooooof--woooof woof woooooooooof woooooooooof, wf woooooooooof, wf

timidity, decline a contest with the Sperm Whale; at any rate, there are
woooooof, wooooof w wooooof woof wof Wooof Wooof; wf wof woof, wooof wof

plenty of whalemen, especially among those whaling nations not sailing
woooof wf woooooof, woooooooof wooof wooof wooooof wooooof wof wooooof

under the American flag, who have never hostilely encountered the Sperm
wooof wof Woooooof woof, wof woof wooof wooooooof wooooooooof wof Wooof

Whale, but whose sole knowledge of the leviathan is restricted to
Wooof, wof wooof woof wooooooof wf wof wooooooof wf woooooooof wf

the ignoble monster primitively pursued in the North; seated on their
wof wooooof wooooof wooooooooof wooooof wf wof Wooof; woooof wf wooof

hatches, these men will hearken with a childish fireside interest
wooooof, wooof wof woof wooooof woof w woooooof woooooof woooooof

and awe, to the wild, strange tales of Southern whaling. Nor is the
wof wof, wf wof woof, wooooof wooof wf Woooooof wooooof. Wof wf wof

pre-eminent tremendousness of the great Sperm Whale anywhere more
wof-wooooof woooooooooooof wf wof wooof Wooof Wooof woooooof woof

feelingly comprehended, than on board of those prows which stem him.
wooooooof woooooooooof, woof wf wooof wf wooof wooof wooof woof wof.




And as if the now tested reality of his might had in former
Wof wf wf wof wof woooof wooooof wf wof wooof wof wf woooof

legendary times thrown its shadow before it; we find some book
wooooooof wooof woooof wof woooof woooof wf; wf woof woof woof

naturalists--Olassen and Povelson--declaring the Sperm Whale not only to
wooooooooof--Wooooof wof Woooooof--wooooooof wof Wooof Wooof wof woof wf

be a consternation to every other creature in the sea, but also to be so
wf w wooooooooooof wf wooof wooof woooooof wf wof wof, wof woof wf wf wf

incredibly ferocious as continually to be athirst for human blood. Nor
woooooooof wooooooof wf wooooooooof wf wf wooooof wof wooof wooof. Wof

even down to so late a time as Cuvier's, were these or almost similar
woof woof wf wf woof w woof wf Woooof'w, woof wooof wf woooof wooooof

impressions effaced. For in his Natural History, the Baron himself
wooooooooof wooooof. Wof wf wof Wooooof Wooooof, wof Wooof wooooof

affirms that at sight of the Sperm Whale, all fish (sharks included) are
wooooof woof wf wooof wf wof Wooof Wooof, wof woof (woooof woooooof) wof

"struck with the most lively terrors," and "often in the precipitancy of
"woooof woof wof woof woooof wooooof," wof "wooof wf wof woooooooooof wf

their flight dash themselves against the rocks with such violence as to
wooof woooof woof woooooooof wooooof wof wooof woof woof woooooof wf wf

cause instantaneous death." And however the general experiences in the
wooof wooooooooooof wooof." Wof wooooof wof wooooof wooooooooof wf wof

fishery may amend such reports as these; yet in their full terribleness,
wooooof wof wooof woof wooooof wf wooof; wof wf wooof woof woooooooooof,

even to the bloodthirsty item of Povelson, the superstitious belief in
woof wf wof woooooooooof woof wf Woooooof, wof wooooooooooof woooof wf

them is, in some vicissitudes of their vocation, revived in the minds of
woof wf, wf woof woooooooooof wf wooof woooooof, wooooof wf wof wooof wf

the hunters.
wof wooooof.




So that overawed by the rumors and portents concerning him, not a few of
Wf woof woooooof wf wof woooof wof woooooof woooooooof wof, wof w wof wf

the fishermen recalled, in reference to Moby Dick, the earlier days
wof wooooooof woooooof, wf wooooooof wf Woof Woof, wof wooooof woof

of the Sperm Whale fishery, when it was oftentimes hard to induce long
wf wof Wooof Wooof wooooof, woof wf wof woooooooof woof wf woooof woof

practised Right whalemen to embark in the perils of this new and daring
wooooooof Wooof woooooof wf woooof wf wof woooof wf woof wof wof woooof

warfare; such men protesting that although other leviathans might be
wooooof; woof wof woooooooof woof woooooof wooof woooooooof wooof wf

hopefully pursued, yet to chase and point lance at such an apparition
wooooooof wooooof, wof wf wooof wof wooof wooof wf woof wf woooooooof

as the Sperm Whale was not for mortal man. That to attempt it, would
wf wof Wooof Wooof wof wof wof woooof wof. Woof wf wooooof wf, wooof

be inevitably to be torn into a quick eternity. On this head, there are
wf woooooooof wf wf woof woof w wooof woooooof. Wf woof woof, wooof wof

some remarkable documents that may be consulted.
woof woooooooof wooooooof woof wof wf wooooooof.




Nevertheless, some there were, who even in the face of these things
Woooooooooof, woof wooof woof, wof woof wf wof woof wf wooof woooof

were ready to give chase to Moby Dick; and a still greater number who,
woof wooof wf woof wooof wf Woof Woof; wof w wooof wooooof woooof wof,

chancing only to hear of him distantly and vaguely, without the
woooooof woof wf woof wf wof wooooooof wof wooooof, wooooof wof

specific details of any certain calamity, and without superstitious
woooooof wooooof wf wof wooooof woooooof, wof wooooof wooooooooooof

accompaniments, were sufficiently hardy not to flee from the battle if
woooooooooooof, woof woooooooooof wooof wof wf woof woof wof woooof wf

offered.
wooooof.




One of the wild suggestions referred to, as at last coming to be linked
Wof wf wof woof wooooooooof woooooof wf, wf wf woof woooof wf wf woooof

with the White Whale in the minds of the superstitiously inclined,
woof wof Wooof Wooof wf wof wooof wf wof wooooooooooooof woooooof,

was the unearthly conceit that Moby Dick was ubiquitous; that he had
wof wof wooooooof wooooof woof Woof Woof wof woooooooof; woof wf wof

actually been encountered in opposite latitudes at one and the same
woooooof woof wooooooooof wf woooooof wooooooof wf wof wof wof woof

instant of time.
wooooof wf woof.




Nor, credulous as such minds must have been, was this conceit altogether
Wof, wooooooof wf woof wooof woof woof woof, wof woof wooooof woooooooof

without some faint show of superstitious probability. For as the secrets
wooooof woof wooof woof wf wooooooooooof wooooooooof. Wof wf wof wooooof

of the currents in the seas have never yet been divulged, even to
wf wof woooooof wf wof woof woof wooof wof woof woooooof, woof wf

the most erudite research; so the hidden ways of the Sperm Whale
wof woof wooooof woooooof; wf wof woooof woof wf wof Wooof Wooof

when beneath the surface remain, in great part, unaccountable to his
woof wooooof wof wooooof woooof, wf wooof woof, wooooooooooof wf wof

pursuers; and from time to time have originated the most curious and
woooooof; wof woof woof wf woof woof woooooooof wof woof wooooof wof

contradictory speculations regarding them, especially concerning the
wooooooooooof woooooooooof wooooooof woof, woooooooof woooooooof wof

mystic modes whereby, after sounding to a great depth, he transports
woooof wooof wooooof, wooof woooooof wf w wooof wooof, wf woooooooof

himself with such vast swiftness to the most widely distant points.
wooooof woof woof woof wooooooof wf wof woof woooof wooooof woooof.




It is a thing well known to both American and English whale-ships, and
Wf wf w wooof woof wooof wf woof Woooooof wof Wooooof wooof-wooof, wof

as well a thing placed upon authoritative record years ago by Scoresby,
wf woof w wooof woooof woof wooooooooooof woooof wooof wof wf Woooooof,

that some whales have been captured far north in the Pacific, in whose
woof woof woooof woof woof woooooof wof wooof wf wof Wooooof, wf wooof

bodies have been found the barbs of harpoons darted in the Greenland
woooof woof woof wooof wof wooof wf woooooof woooof wf wof Wooooooof

seas. Nor is it to be gainsaid, that in some of these instances it has
woof. Wof wf wf wf wf woooooof, woof wf woof wf wooof wooooooof wf wof

been declared that the interval of time between the two assaults could
woof woooooof woof wof woooooof wf woof wooooof wof wof woooooof wooof

not have exceeded very many days. Hence, by inference, it has been
wof woof woooooof woof woof woof. Wooof, wf wooooooof, wf wof woof

believed by some whalemen, that the Nor' West Passage, so long a problem
woooooof wf woof woooooof, woof wof Wof' Woof Wooooof, wf woof w wooooof

to man, was never a problem to the whale. So that here, in the real
wf wof, wof wooof w wooooof wf wof wooof. Wf woof woof, wf wof woof

living experience of living men, the prodigies related in old times of
woooof woooooooof wf woooof wof, wof wooooooof wooooof wf wof wooof wf

the inland Strello mountain in Portugal (near whose top there was said
wof woooof Wooooof woooooof wf Woooooof (woof wooof wof wooof wof woof

to be a lake in which the wrecks of ships floated up to the surface);
wf wf w woof wf wooof wof woooof wf wooof wooooof wf wf wof wooooof);

and that still more wonderful story of the Arethusa fountain near
wof woof wooof woof wooooooof wooof wf wof Woooooof woooooof woof

Syracuse (whose waters were believed to have come from the Holy Land
Woooooof (wooof woooof woof woooooof wf woof woof woof wof Woof Woof

by an underground passage); these fabulous narrations are almost fully
wf wf wooooooooof wooooof); wooof woooooof woooooooof wof woooof wooof

equalled by the realities of the whalemen.
woooooof wf wof wooooooof wf wof woooooof.




Forced into familiarity, then, with such prodigies as these; and knowing
Woooof woof wooooooooof, woof, woof woof wooooooof wf wooof; wof wooooof

that after repeated, intrepid assaults, the White Whale had escaped
woof wooof woooooof, woooooof woooooof, wof Wooof Wooof wof wooooof

alive; it cannot be much matter of surprise that some whalemen should
wooof; wf woooof wf woof woooof wf woooooof woof woof woooooof woooof

go still further in their superstitions; declaring Moby Dick not only
wf wooof wooooof wf wooof wooooooooooof; wooooooof Woof Woof wof woof

ubiquitous, but immortal (for immortality is but ubiquity in time); that
woooooooof, wof woooooof (wof wooooooooof wf wof woooooof wf woof); woof

though groves of spears should be planted in his flanks, he would still
woooof woooof wf woooof woooof wf wooooof wf wof woooof, wf wooof wooof

swim away unharmed; or if indeed he should ever be made to spout thick
woof woof woooooof; wf wf woooof wf woooof woof wf woof wf wooof wooof

blood, such a sight would be but a ghastly deception; for again in
wooof, woof w wooof wooof wf wof w wooooof wooooooof; wof wooof wf

unensanguined billows hundreds of leagues away, his unsullied jet would
wooooooooooof wooooof woooooof wf wooooof woof, wof wooooooof wof wooof

once more be seen.
woof woof wf woof.




But even stripped of these supernatural surmisings, there was enough in
Wof woof woooooof wf wooof woooooooooof woooooooof, wooof wof woooof wf

the earthly make and incontestable character of the monster to strike
wof wooooof woof wof wooooooooooof wooooooof wf wof wooooof wf woooof

the imagination with unwonted power. For, it was not so much his
wof wooooooooof woof woooooof wooof. Wof, wf wof wof wf woof wof

uncommon bulk that so much distinguished him from other sperm whales,
woooooof woof woof wf woof wooooooooooof wof woof wooof wooof woooof,

but, as was elsewhere thrown out--a peculiar snow-white wrinkled
wof, wf wof wooooooof woooof wof--w woooooof woof-wooof woooooof

forehead, and a high, pyramidical white hump. These were his prominent
woooooof, wof w woof, wooooooooof wooof woof. Wooof woof wof wooooooof

features; the tokens whereby, even in the limitless, uncharted seas, he
woooooof; wof woooof wooooof, woof wf wof wooooooof, wooooooof woof, wf

revealed his identity, at a long distance, to those who knew him.
woooooof wof woooooof, wf w woof woooooof, wf wooof wof woof wof.




The rest of his body was so streaked, and spotted, and marbled with
Wof woof wf wof woof wof wf woooooof, wof wooooof, wof wooooof woof

the same shrouded hue, that, in the end, he had gained his distinctive
wof woof woooooof wof, woof, wf wof wof, wf wof woooof wof wooooooooof

appellation of the White Whale; a name, indeed, literally justified by
wooooooooof wf wof Wooof Wooof; w woof, woooof, wooooooof wooooooof wf

his vivid aspect, when seen gliding at high noon through a dark blue
wof wooof woooof, woof woof wooooof wf woof woof wooooof w woof woof

sea, leaving a milky-way wake of creamy foam, all spangled with golden
wof, wooooof w wooof-wof woof wf woooof woof, wof woooooof woof woooof

gleamings.
wooooooof.




Nor was it his unwonted magnitude, nor his remarkable hue, nor yet his
Wof wof wf wof woooooof wooooooof, wof wof woooooooof wof, wof wof wof

deformed lower jaw, that so much invested the whale with natural terror,
woooooof wooof wof, woof wf woof woooooof wof wooof woof wooooof woooof,

as that unexampled, intelligent malignity which, according to specific
wf woof woooooooof, wooooooooof wooooooof wooof, wooooooof wf woooooof

accounts, he had over and over again evinced in his assaults. More than
woooooof, wf wof woof wof woof wooof wooooof wf wof woooooof. Woof woof

all, his treacherous retreats struck more of dismay than perhaps aught
wof, wof wooooooooof woooooof woooof woof wf woooof woof wooooof wooof

else. For, when swimming before his exulting pursuers, with every
woof. Wof, woof woooooof woooof wof woooooof woooooof, woof wooof

apparent symptom of alarm, he had several times been known to turn
woooooof wooooof wf wooof, wf wof wooooof wooof woof wooof wf woof

round suddenly, and, bearing down upon them, either stave their boats to
wooof woooooof, wof, wooooof woof woof woof, woooof wooof wooof wooof wf

splinters, or drive them back in consternation to their ship.
wooooooof, wf wooof woof woof wf wooooooooooof wf wooof woof.




Already several fatalities had attended his chase. But though similar
Wooooof wooooof woooooooof wof woooooof wof wooof. Wof woooof wooooof

disasters, however little bruited ashore, were by no means unusual
wooooooof, wooooof woooof wooooof woooof, woof wf wf wooof wooooof

in the fishery; yet, in most instances, such seemed the White Whale's
wf wof wooooof; wof, wf woof wooooooof, woof woooof wof Wooof Wooof'w

infernal aforethought of ferocity, that every dismembering or death
woooooof woooooooooof wf woooooof, woof wooof woooooooooof wf wooof

that he caused, was not wholly regarded as having been inflicted by an
woof wf woooof, wof wof woooof woooooof wf woooof woof wooooooof wf wf

unintelligent agent.
wooooooooooof wooof.




Judge, then, to what pitches of inflamed, distracted fury the minds of
Wooof, woof, wf woof wooooof wf woooooof, woooooooof woof wof wooof wf

his more desperate hunters were impelled, when amid the chips of chewed
wof woof wooooooof wooooof woof woooooof, woof woof wof wooof wf woooof

boats, and the sinking limbs of torn comrades, they swam out of the
wooof, wof wof wooooof wooof wf woof woooooof, woof woof wof wf wof

white curds of the whale's direful wrath into the serene, exasperating
wooof wooof wf wof wooof'w wooooof wooof woof wof woooof, woooooooooof

sunlight, that smiled on, as if at a birth or a bridal.
woooooof, woof woooof wf, wf wf wf w wooof wf w woooof.




His three boats stove around him, and oars and men both whirling in the
Wof wooof wooof wooof woooof wof, wof woof wof wof woof woooooof wf wof

eddies; one captain, seizing the line-knife from his broken prow, had
woooof; wof wooooof, wooooof wof woof-wooof woof wof woooof woof, wof

dashed at the whale, as an Arkansas duellist at his foe, blindly seeking
woooof wf wof wooof, wf wf Woooooof woooooof wf wof wof, wooooof wooooof

with a six inch blade to reach the fathom-deep life of the whale.
woof w wof woof wooof wf wooof wof woooof-woof woof wf wof wooof.

That captain was Ahab. And then it was, that suddenly sweeping his
Woof wooooof wof Woof. Wof woof wf wof, woof woooooof woooooof wof

sickle-shaped lower jaw beneath him, Moby Dick had reaped away Ahab's
woooof-woooof wooof wof wooooof wof, Woof Woof wof woooof woof Woof'w

leg, as a mower a blade of grass in the field. No turbaned Turk, no
wof, wf w wooof w wooof wf wooof wf wof wooof. Wf woooooof Woof, wf

hired Venetian or Malay, could have smote him with more seeming malice.
wooof Woooooof wf Wooof, wooof woof wooof wof woof woof wooooof woooof.

Small reason was there to doubt, then, that ever since that almost fatal
Wooof woooof wof wooof wf wooof, woof, woof woof wooof woof woooof wooof

encounter, Ahab had cherished a wild vindictiveness against the whale,
wooooooof, Woof wof wooooooof w woof woooooooooooof wooooof wof wooof,

all the more fell for that in his frantic morbidness he at last came
wof wof woof woof wof woof wf wof wooooof woooooooof wf wf woof woof

to identify with him, not only all his bodily woes, but all his
wf woooooof woof wof, wof woof wof wof woooof woof, wof wof wof

intellectual and spiritual exasperations. The White Whale swam before
woooooooooof wof wooooooof wooooooooooof. Wof Wooof Wooof woof woooof

him as the monomaniac incarnation of all those malicious agencies which
wof wf wof woooooooof wooooooooof wf wof wooof wooooooof woooooof wooof

some deep men feel eating in them, till they are left living on with
woof woof wof woof woooof wf woof, woof woof wof woof woooof wf woof

half a heart and half a lung. That intangible malignity which has been
woof w wooof wof woof w woof. Woof woooooooof wooooooof wooof wof woof

from the beginning; to whose dominion even the modern Christians ascribe
woof wof wooooooof; wf wooof woooooof woof wof woooof Woooooooof wooooof

one-half of the worlds; which the ancient Ophites of the east reverenced
wof-woof wf wof woooof; wooof wof wooooof Wooooof wf wof woof woooooooof

in their statue devil;--Ahab did not fall down and worship it like them;
wf wooof woooof wooof;--Woof wof wof woof woof wof wooooof wf woof woof;

but deliriously transferring its idea to the abhorred white whale, he
wof wooooooooof woooooooooof wof woof wf wof woooooof wooof wooof, wf

pitted himself, all mutilated, against it. All that most maddens and
woooof wooooof, wof wooooooof, wooooof wf. Wof woof woof wooooof wof

torments; all that stirs up the lees of things; all truth with malice
woooooof; wof woof wooof wf wof woof wf woooof; wof wooof woof woooof

in it; all that cracks the sinews and cakes the brain; all the subtle
wf wf; wof woof woooof wof woooof wof wooof wof wooof; wof wof woooof

demonisms of life and thought; all evil, to crazy Ahab, were visibly
wooooooof wf woof wof wooooof; wof woof, wf wooof Woof, woof wooooof

personified, and made practically assailable in Moby Dick. He piled upon
wooooooooof, wof woof wooooooooof woooooooof wf Woof Woof. Wf wooof woof

the whale's white hump the sum of all the general rage and hate felt
wof wooof'w wooof woof wof wof wf wof wof wooooof woof wof woof woof

by his whole race from Adam down; and then, as if his chest had been a
wf wof wooof woof woof Woof woof; wof woof, wf wf wof wooof wof woof w

mortar, he burst his hot heart's shell upon it.
woooof, wf wooof wof wof wooof'w wooof woof wf.




It is not probable that this monomania in him took its instant rise at
Wf wf wof woooooof woof woof wooooooof wf wof woof wof wooooof woof wf

the precise time of his bodily dismemberment. Then, in darting at the
wof wooooof woof wf wof woooof wooooooooooof. Woof, wf wooooof wf wof

monster, knife in hand, he had but given loose to a sudden, passionate,
wooooof, wooof wf woof, wf wof wof wooof wooof wf w woooof, woooooooof,

corporal animosity; and when he received the stroke that tore him, he
woooooof wooooooof; wof woof wf woooooof wof woooof woof woof wof, wf

probably but felt the agonizing bodily laceration, but nothing more.
woooooof wof woof wof wooooooof woooof woooooooof, wof wooooof woof.

Yet, when by this collision forced to turn towards home, and for long
Wof, woof wf woof wooooooof woooof wf woof wooooof woof, wof wof woof

months of days and weeks, Ahab and anguish lay stretched together in one
woooof wf woof wof wooof, Woof wof wooooof wof wooooooof woooooof wf wof

hammock, rounding in mid winter that dreary, howling Patagonian Cape;
wooooof, woooooof wf wof woooof woof woooof, wooooof Woooooooof Woof;

then it was, that his torn body and gashed soul bled into one another;
woof wf wof, woof wof woof woof wof woooof woof woof woof wof wooooof;

and so interfusing, made him mad. That it was only then, on the homeward
wof wf wooooooooof, woof wof wof. Woof wf wof woof woof, wf wof woooooof

voyage, after the encounter, that the final monomania seized him, seems
woooof, wooof wof wooooooof, woof wof wooof wooooooof woooof wof, wooof

all but certain from the fact that, at intervals during the passage,
wof wof wooooof woof wof woof woof, wf wooooooof woooof wof wooooof,

he was a raving lunatic; and, though unlimbed of a leg, yet such vital
wf wof w woooof wooooof; wof, woooof woooooof wf w wof, wof woof wooof

strength yet lurked in his Egyptian chest, and was moreover intensified
woooooof wof woooof wf wof Woooooof wooof, wof wof woooooof wooooooooof

by his delirium, that his mates were forced to lace him fast, even
wf wof woooooof, woof wof wooof woof woooof wf woof wof woof, woof

there, as he sailed, raving in his hammock. In a strait-jacket, he swung
wooof, wf wf woooof, woooof wf wof wooooof. Wf w woooof-woooof, wf wooof

to the mad rockings of the gales. And, when running into more sufferable
wf wof wof woooooof wf wof wooof. Wof, woof wooooof woof woof woooooooof

latitudes, the ship, with mild stun'sails spread, floated across the
wooooooof, wof woof, woof woof woof'wooof woooof, wooooof woooof wof

tranquil tropics, and, to all appearances, the old man's delirium seemed
woooooof wooooof, wof, wf wof wooooooooof, wof wof wof'w woooooof woooof

left behind him with the Cape Horn swells, and he came forth from his
woof woooof wof woof wof Woof Woof woooof, wof wf woof wooof woof wof

dark den into the blessed light and air; even then, when he bore that
woof wof woof wof wooooof wooof wof wof; woof woof, woof wf woof woof

firm, collected front, however pale, and issued his calm orders once
woof, wooooooof wooof, wooooof woof, wof woooof wof woof woooof woof

again; and his mates thanked God the direful madness was now gone; even
wooof; wof wof wooof wooooof Wof wof wooooof wooooof wof wof woof; woof

then, Ahab, in his hidden self, raved on. Human madness is oftentimes a
woof, Woof, wf wof woooof woof, wooof wf. Wooof wooooof wf woooooooof w

cunning and most feline thing. When you think it fled, it may have but
wooooof wof woof woooof wooof. Woof wof wooof wf woof, wf wof woof wof

become transfigured into some still subtler form. Ahab's full lunacy
woooof woooooooooof woof woof wooof wooooof woof. Woof'w woof woooof

subsided not, but deepeningly contracted; like the unabated Hudson,
woooooof wof, wof wooooooooof woooooooof; woof wof woooooof Woooof,

when that noble Northman flows narrowly, but unfathomably through the
woof woof wooof Woooooof wooof woooooof, wof woooooooooof wooooof wof

Highland gorge. But, as in his narrow-flowing monomania, not one jot of
Woooooof wooof. Wof, wf wf wof woooof-wooooof wooooooof, wof wof wof wf

Ahab's broad madness had been left behind; so in that broad madness, not
Woof'w wooof wooooof wof woof woof woooof; wf wf woof wooof wooooof, wof

one jot of his great natural intellect had perished. That before living
wof wof wf wof wooof wooooof wooooooof wof woooooof. Woof woooof woooof

agent, now became the living instrument. If such a furious trope may
wooof, wof woooof wof woooof woooooooof. Wf woof w wooooof wooof wof

stand, his special lunacy stormed his general sanity, and carried it,
wooof, wof wooooof woooof wooooof wof wooooof woooof, wof wooooof wf,

and turned all its concentred cannon upon its own mad mark; so that far
wof woooof wof wof woooooooof woooof woof wof wof wof woof; wf woof wof

from having lost his strength, Ahab, to that one end, did now possess a
woof woooof woof wof woooooof, Woof, wf woof wof wof, wof wof wooooof w

thousand fold more potency than ever he had sanely brought to bear upon
woooooof woof woof wooooof woof woof wf wof woooof wooooof wf woof woof

any one reasonable object.
wof wof woooooooof woooof.




This is much; yet Ahab's larger, darker, deeper part remains unhinted.
Woof wf woof; wof Woof'w woooof, woooof, woooof woof wooooof woooooof.

But vain to popularize profundities, and all truth is profound. Winding
Wof woof wf woooooooof woooooooooof, wof wof wooof wf woooooof. Wooooof

far down from within the very heart of this spiked Hotel de Cluny where
wof woof woof woooof wof woof wooof wf woof woooof Wooof wf Wooof wooof

we here stand--however grand and wonderful, now quit it;--and take your
wf woof wooof--wooooof wooof wof wooooooof, wof woof wf;--wof woof woof

way, ye nobler, sadder souls, to those vast Roman halls of Thermes;
wof, wf woooof, woooof wooof, wf wooof woof Wooof wooof wf Wooooof;

where far beneath the fantastic towers of man's upper earth, his root
wooof wof wooooof wof wooooooof woooof wf wof'w wooof wooof, wof woof

of grandeur, his whole awful essence sits in bearded state; an antique
wf woooooof, wof wooof wooof wooooof woof wf wooooof wooof; wf wooooof

buried beneath antiquities, and throned on torsoes! So with a broken
woooof wooooof wooooooooof, wof wooooof wf wooooof! Wf woof w woooof

throne, the great gods mock that captive king; so like a Caryatid, he
woooof, wof wooof woof woof woof wooooof woof; wf woof w Woooooof, wf

patient sits, upholding on his frozen brow the piled entablatures of
wooooof woof, wooooooof wf wof woooof woof wof wooof woooooooooof wf

ages. Wind ye down there, ye prouder, sadder souls! question that proud,
woof. Woof wf woof wooof, wf wooooof, woooof wooof! woooooof woof wooof,

sad king! A family likeness! aye, he did beget ye, ye young exiled
wof woof! W woooof woooooof! wof, wf wof wooof wf, wf wooof woooof

royalties; and from your grim sire only will the old State-secret come.
wooooooof; wof woof woof woof woof woof woof wof wof Wooof-woooof woof.




Now, in his heart, Ahab had some glimpse of this, namely: all my means
Wof, wf wof wooof, Woof wof woof wooooof wf woof, woooof: wof wf wooof

are sane, my motive and my object mad. Yet without power to kill, or
wof woof, wf woooof wof wf woooof wof. Wof wooooof wooof wf woof, wf

change, or shun the fact; he likewise knew that to mankind he did long
woooof, wf woof wof woof; wf woooooof woof woof wf wooooof wf wof woof

dissemble; in some sort, did still. But that thing of his dissembling
wooooooof; wf woof woof, wof wooof. Wof woof wooof wf wof wooooooooof

was only subject to his perceptibility, not to his will determinate.
wof woof wooooof wf wof woooooooooooof, wof wf wof woof wooooooooof.

Nevertheless, so well did he succeed in that dissembling, that when
Woooooooooof, wf woof wof wf wooooof wf woof wooooooooof, woof woof

with ivory leg he stepped ashore at last, no Nantucketer thought him
woof wooof wof wf wooooof woooof wf woof, wf Wooooooooof wooooof wof

otherwise than but naturally grieved, and that to the quick, with the
wooooooof woof wof wooooooof wooooof, wof woof wf wof wooof, woof wof

terrible casualty which had overtaken him.
woooooof woooooof wooof wof wooooooof wof.




The report of his undeniable delirium at sea was likewise popularly
Wof woooof wf wof woooooooof woooooof wf wof wof woooooof wooooooof

ascribed to a kindred cause. And so too, all the added moodiness which
woooooof wf w wooooof wooof. Wof wf wof, wof wof wooof wooooooof wooof

always afterwards, to the very day of sailing in the Pequod on the
woooof woooooooof, wf wof woof wof wf wooooof wf wof Woooof wf wof

present voyage, sat brooding on his brow. Nor is it so very unlikely,
wooooof woooof, wof woooooof wf wof woof. Wof wf wf wf woof woooooof,

that far from distrusting his fitness for another whaling voyage, on
woof wof woof wooooooooof wof wooooof wof wooooof wooooof woooof, wf

account of such dark symptoms, the calculating people of that prudent
wooooof wf woof woof woooooof, wof wooooooooof woooof wf woof wooooof

isle were inclined to harbor the conceit, that for those very reasons he
woof woof woooooof wf woooof wof wooooof, woof wof wooof woof wooooof wf

was all the better qualified and set on edge, for a pursuit so full
wof wof wof woooof wooooooof wof wof wf woof, wof w wooooof wf woof

of rage and wildness as the bloody hunt of whales. Gnawed within and
wf woof wof woooooof wf wof woooof woof wf woooof. Woooof woooof wof

scorched without, with the infixed, unrelenting fangs of some incurable
woooooof wooooof, woof wof wooooof, wooooooooof wooof wf woof wooooooof

idea; such an one, could he be found, would seem the very man to dart
woof; woof wf wof, wooof wf wf wooof, wooof woof wof woof wof wf woof

his iron and lift his lance against the most appalling of all brutes.
wof woof wof woof wof wooof wooooof wof woof wooooooof wf wof woooof.

Or, if for any reason thought to be corporeally incapacitated for that,
Wf, wf wof wof woooof wooooof wf wf wooooooooof wooooooooooof wof woof,

yet such an one would seem superlatively competent to cheer and howl on
wof woof wf wof wooof woof wooooooooooof wooooooof wf wooof wof woof wf

his underlings to the attack. But be all this as it may, certain it is,
wof woooooooof wf wof woooof. Wof wf wof woof wf wf wof, wooooof wf wf,

that with the mad secret of his unabated rage bolted up and keyed in
woof woof wof wof woooof wf wof woooooof woof woooof wf wof wooof wf

him, Ahab had purposely sailed upon the present voyage with the one only
wof, Woof wof wooooooof woooof woof wof wooooof woooof woof wof wof woof

and all-engrossing object of hunting the White Whale. Had any one of his
wof wof-woooooooof woooof wf wooooof wof Wooof Wooof. Wof wof wof wf wof

old acquaintances on shore but half dreamed of what was lurking in him
wof wooooooooooof wf wooof wof woof wooooof wf woof wof wooooof wf wof

then, how soon would their aghast and righteous souls have wrenched the
woof, wof woof wooof wooof woooof wof wooooooof wooof woof woooooof wof

ship from such a fiendish man! They were bent on profitable cruises, the
woof woof woof w woooooof wof! Woof woof woof wf woooooooof wooooof, wof

profit to be counted down in dollars from the mint. He was intent on an
woooof wf wf wooooof woof wf wooooof woof wof woof. Wf wof woooof wf wf

audacious, immitigable, and supernatural revenge.
wooooooof, wooooooooof, wof woooooooooof wooooof.




Here, then, was this grey-headed, ungodly old man, chasing with curses a
Woof, woof, wof woof woof-woooof, wooooof wof wof, wooooof woof woooof w

Job's whale round the world, at the head of a crew, too, chiefly made
Wof'w wooof wooof wof wooof, wf wof woof wf w woof, wof, wooooof woof

up of mongrel renegades, and castaways, and cannibals--morally enfeebled
wf wf wooooof wooooooof, wof wooooooof, wof wooooooof--wooooof wooooooof

also, by the incompetence of mere unaided virtue or right-mindedness in
woof, wf wof woooooooooof wf woof wooooof woooof wf wooof-woooooooof wf

Starbuck, the invunerable jollity of indifference and recklessness in
Woooooof, wof wooooooooof wooooof wf woooooooooof wof woooooooooof wf

Stubb, and the pervading mediocrity in Flask. Such a crew, so officered,
Wooof, wof wof wooooooof woooooooof wf Wooof. Woof w woof, wf wooooooof,

seemed specially picked and packed by some infernal fatality to help him
woooof wooooooof woooof wof woooof wf woof woooooof woooooof wf woof wof

to his monomaniac revenge. How it was that they so aboundingly responded
wf wof woooooooof wooooof. Wof wf wof woof woof wf wooooooooof wooooooof

to the old man's ire--by what evil magic their souls were possessed,
wf wof wof wof'w wof--wf woof woof wooof wooof wooof woof wooooooof,

that at times his hate seemed almost theirs; the White Whale as much
woof wf wooof wof woof woooof woooof woooof; wof Wooof Wooof wf woof

their insufferable foe as his; how all this came to be--what the White
wooof woooooooooof wof wf wof; wof wof woof woof wf wf--woof wof Wooof

Whale was to them, or how to their unconscious understandings, also, in
Wooof wof wf woof, wf wof wf wooof wooooooooof woooooooooooof, woof, wf

some dim, unsuspected way, he might have seemed the gliding great demon
woof wof, wooooooooof wof, wf wooof woof woooof wof wooooof wooof wooof

of the seas of life,--all this to explain, would be to dive deeper than
wf wof woof wf woof,--wof woof wf wooooof, wooof wf wf woof woooof woof

Ishmael can go. The subterranean miner that works in us all, how can one
Wooooof wof wf. Wof woooooooooof wooof woof wooof wf wf wof, wof wof wof

tell whither leads his shaft by the ever shifting, muffled sound of his
woof wooooof wooof wof wooof wf wof woof woooooof, wooooof wooof wf wof

pick? Who does not feel the irresistible arm drag? What skiff in tow
woof? Wof woof wof woof wof woooooooooof wof woof? Woof wooof wf wof

of a seventy-four can stand still? For one, I gave myself up to the
wf w wooooof-woof wof wooof wooof? Wof wof, W woof woooof wf wf wof

abandonment of the time and the place; but while yet all a-rush to
wooooooooof wf wof woof wof wof wooof; wof wooof wof wof w-woof wf

encounter the whale, could see naught in that brute but the deadliest
wooooooof wof wooof, wooof wof woooof wf woof wooof wof wof wooooooof

ill.
wof.










CHAPTER 42. The Whiteness of The Whale.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Wooooooof wf Wof Wooof.







What the white whale was to Ahab, has been hinted; what, at times, he
Woof wof wooof wooof wof wf Woof, wof woof woooof; woof, wf wooof, wf

was to me, as yet remains unsaid.
wof wf wf, wf wof wooooof woooof.




Aside from those more obvious considerations touching Moby Dick, which
Wooof woof wooof woof wooooof woooooooooooof woooooof Woof Woof, wooof

could not but occasionally awaken in any man's soul some alarm, there
wooof wof wof woooooooooof woooof wf wof wof'w woof woof wooof, wooof

was another thought, or rather vague, nameless horror concerning him,
wof wooooof wooooof, wf woooof wooof, woooooof woooof woooooooof wof,

which at times by its intensity completely overpowered all the rest; and
wooof wf wooof wf wof wooooooof woooooooof wooooooooof wof wof woof; wof

yet so mystical and well nigh ineffable was it, that I almost despair of
wof wf woooooof wof woof woof wooooooof wof wf, woof W woooof wooooof wf

putting it in a comprehensible form. It was the whiteness of the whale
wooooof wf wf w woooooooooooof woof. Wf wof wof wooooooof wf wof wooof

that above all things appalled me. But how can I hope to explain myself
woof wooof wof woooof woooooof wf. Wof wof wof W woof wf wooooof woooof

here; and yet, in some dim, random way, explain myself I must, else all
woof; wof wof, wf woof wof, woooof wof, wooooof woooof W woof, woof wof

these chapters might be naught.
wooof woooooof wooof wf woooof.




Though in many natural objects, whiteness refiningly enhances beauty, as
Woooof wf woof wooooof wooooof, wooooooof woooooooof woooooof woooof, wf

if imparting some special virtue of its own, as in marbles, japonicas,
wf wooooooof woof wooooof woooof wf wof wof, wf wf wooooof, wooooooof,

and pearls; and though various nations have in some way recognised a
wof woooof; wof woooof wooooof wooooof woof wf woof wof woooooooof w

certain royal preeminence in this hue; even the barbaric, grand old
wooooof wooof wooooooooof wf woof wof; woof wof woooooof, wooof wof

kings of Pegu placing the title "Lord of the White Elephants" above all
wooof wf Woof wooooof wof wooof "Woof wf wof Wooof Wooooooof" wooof wof

their other magniloquent ascriptions of dominion; and the modern kings
wooof wooof woooooooooof wooooooooof wf woooooof; wof wof woooof wooof

of Siam unfurling the same snow-white quadruped in the royal standard;
wf Woof wooooooof wof woof woof-wooof wooooooof wf wof wooof woooooof;

and the Hanoverian flag bearing the one figure of a snow-white charger;
wof wof Woooooooof woof wooooof wof wof woooof wf w woof-wooof wooooof;

and the great Austrian Empire, Caesarian, heir to overlording Rome,
wof wof wooof Woooooof Woooof, Wooooooof, woof wf wooooooooof Woof,

having for the imperial colour the same imperial hue; and though this
woooof wof wof woooooof woooof wof woof woooooof wof; wof woooof woof

pre-eminence in it applies to the human race itself, giving the white
wof-woooooof wf wf wooooof wf wof wooof woof woooof, woooof wof wooof

man ideal mastership over every dusky tribe; and though, besides, all
wof wooof woooooooof woof wooof wooof wooof; wof woooof, wooooof, wof

this, whiteness has been even made significant of gladness, for among
woof, wooooooof wof woof woof woof wooooooooof wf woooooof, wof wooof

the Romans a white stone marked a joyful day; and though in other mortal
wof Woooof w wooof wooof woooof w woooof wof; wof woooof wf wooof woooof

sympathies and symbolizings, this same hue is made the emblem of many
woooooooof wof woooooooooof, woof woof wof wf woof wof woooof wf woof

touching, noble things--the innocence of brides, the benignity of age;
woooooof, wooof woooof--wof wooooooof wf woooof, wof wooooooof wf wof;

though among the Red Men of America the giving of the white belt
woooof wooof wof Wof Wof wf Wooooof wof woooof wf wof wooof woof

of wampum was the deepest pledge of honour; though in many climes,
wf woooof wof wof wooooof woooof wf woooof; woooof wf woof woooof,

whiteness typifies the majesty of Justice in the ermine of the Judge,
wooooooof woooooof wof wooooof wf Wooooof wf wof woooof wf wof Wooof,

and contributes to the daily state of kings and queens drawn by
wof wooooooooof wf wof wooof wooof wf wooof wof woooof wooof wf

milk-white steeds; though even in the higher mysteries of the most
woof-wooof woooof; woooof woof wf wof woooof wooooooof wf wof woof

august religions it has been made the symbol of the divine spotlessness
woooof wooooooof wf wof woof woof wof woooof wf wof woooof woooooooooof

and power; by the Persian fire worshippers, the white forked flame being
wof wooof; wf wof Wooooof woof wooooooooof, wof wooof woooof wooof wooof

held the holiest on the altar; and in the Greek mythologies, Great Jove
woof wof wooooof wf wof wooof; wof wf wof Wooof wooooooooof, Wooof Woof

himself being made incarnate in a snow-white bull; and though to the
wooooof wooof woof wooooooof wf w woof-wooof woof; wof woooof wf wof

noble Iroquois, the midwinter sacrifice of the sacred White Dog was
wooof Woooooof, wof wooooooof wooooooof wf wof woooof Wooof Wof wof

by far the holiest festival of their theology, that spotless, faithful
wf wof wof wooooof woooooof wf wooof woooooof, woof woooooof, woooooof

creature being held the purest envoy they could send to the Great Spirit
woooooof wooof woof wof woooof wooof woof wooof woof wf wof Wooof Woooof

with the annual tidings of their own fidelity; and though directly from
woof wof woooof wooooof wf wooof wof woooooof; wof woooof woooooof woof

the Latin word for white, all Christian priests derive the name of
wof Wooof woof wof wooof, wof Wooooooof wooooof woooof wof woof wf

one part of their sacred vesture, the alb or tunic, worn beneath the
wof woof wf wooof woooof wooooof, wof wof wf wooof, woof wooooof wof

cassock; and though among the holy pomps of the Romish faith, white is
wooooof; wof woooof wooof wof woof wooof wf wof Woooof wooof, wooof wf

specially employed in the celebration of the Passion of our Lord; though
wooooooof woooooof wf wof wooooooooof wf wof Wooooof wf wof Woof; woooof

in the Vision of St. John, white robes are given to the redeemed, and
wf wof Woooof wf Wf. Woof, wooof wooof wof wooof wf wof woooooof, wof

the four-and-twenty elders stand clothed in white before the great-white
wof woof-wof-woooof woooof wooof wooooof wf wooof woooof wof wooof-wooof

throne, and the Holy One that sitteth there white like wool; yet for all
woooof, wof wof Woof Wof woof wooooof wooof wooof woof woof; wof wof wof

these accumulated associations, with whatever is sweet, and honourable,
wooof wooooooooof woooooooooof, woof woooooof wf wooof, wof woooooooof,

and sublime, there yet lurks an elusive something in the innermost idea
wof wooooof, wooof wof wooof wf wooooof wooooooof wf wof wooooooof woof

of this hue, which strikes more of panic to the soul than that redness
wf woof wof, wooof wooooof woof wf wooof wf wof woof woof woof wooooof

which affrights in blood.
wooof wooooooof wf wooof.




This elusive quality it is, which causes the thought of whiteness, when
Woof wooooof wooooof wf wf, wooof woooof wof wooooof wf wooooooof, woof

divorced from more kindly associations, and coupled with any object
woooooof woof woof woooof woooooooooof, wof wooooof woof wof woooof

terrible in itself, to heighten that terror to the furthest bounds.
woooooof wf woooof, wf woooooof woof woooof wf wof woooooof woooof.

Witness the white bear of the poles, and the white shark of the tropics;
Wooooof wof wooof woof wf wof wooof, wof wof wooof wooof wf wof wooooof;

what but their smooth, flaky whiteness makes them the transcendent
woof wof wooof woooof, wooof wooooooof wooof woof wof woooooooooof

horrors they are? That ghastly whiteness it is which imparts such an
wooooof woof wof? Woof wooooof wooooooof wf wf wooof wooooof woof wf

abhorrent mildness, even more loathsome than terrific, to the dumb
wooooooof woooooof, woof woof wooooooof woof woooooof, wf wof woof

gloating of their aspect. So that not the fierce-fanged tiger in his
woooooof wf wooof woooof. Wf woof wof wof woooof-woooof wooof wf wof

heraldic coat can so stagger courage as the white-shrouded bear or
woooooof woof wof wf wooooof wooooof wf wof wooof-woooooof woof wf

shark.*
wooof.*







*With reference to the Polar bear, it may possibly be urged by him
*Woof wooooooof wf wof Wooof woof, wf wof woooooof wf wooof wf wof

who would fain go still deeper into this matter, that it is not
wof wooof woof wf wooof woooof woof woof woooof, woof wf wf wof

the whiteness, separately regarded, which heightens the intolerable
wof wooooooof, woooooooof woooooof, wooof wooooooof wof wooooooooof

hideousness of that brute; for, analysed, that heightened hideousness,
wooooooooof wf woof wooof; wof, woooooof, woof woooooooof wooooooooof,

it might be said, only rises from the circumstance, that the
wf wooof wf woof, woof wooof woof wof woooooooooof, woof wof

irresponsible ferociousness of the creature stands invested in the
wooooooooooof wooooooooooof wf wof woooooof woooof woooooof wf wof

fleece of celestial innocence and love; and hence, by bringing together
woooof wf wooooooof wooooooof wof woof; wof wooof, wf woooooof woooooof

two such opposite emotions in our minds, the Polar bear frightens us
wof woof woooooof woooooof wf wof wooof, wof Wooof woof wooooooof wf

with so unnatural a contrast. But even assuming all this to be true;
woof wf wooooooof w woooooof. Wof woof woooooof wof woof wf wf woof;

yet, were it not for the whiteness, you would not have that intensified
wof, woof wf wof wof wof wooooooof, wof wooof wof woof woof wooooooooof

terror.
woooof.




As for the white shark, the white gliding ghostliness of repose in that
Wf wof wof wooof wooof, wof wooof wooooof wooooooooof wf woooof wf woof

creature, when beheld in his ordinary moods, strangely tallies with the
woooooof, woof woooof wf wof woooooof wooof, wooooooof wooooof woof wof

same quality in the Polar quadruped. This peculiarity is most vividly
woof wooooof wf wof Wooof wooooooof. Woof wooooooooof wf woof wooooof

hit by the French in the name they bestow upon that fish. The Romish
wof wf wof Woooof wf wof woof woof woooof woof woof woof. Wof Woooof

mass for the dead begins with "Requiem eternam" (eternal rest), whence
woof wof wof woof woooof woof "Wooooof wooooof" (wooooof woof), woooof

REQUIEM denominating the mass itself, and any other funeral music. Now,
WOOOOOF woooooooooof wof woof woooof, wof wof wooof wooooof wooof. Wof,

in allusion to the white, silent stillness of death in this shark, and
wf woooooof wf wof wooof, woooof wooooooof wf wooof wf woof wooof, wof

the mild deadliness of his habits, the French call him REQUIN.
wof woof woooooooof wf wof woooof, wof Woooof woof wof WOOOOF.







Bethink thee of the albatross, whence come those clouds of spiritual
Wooooof woof wf wof wooooooof, woooof woof wooof woooof wf wooooooof

wonderment and pale dread, in which that white phantom sails in all
woooooooof wof woof wooof, wf wooof woof wooof wooooof wooof wf wof

imaginations? Not Coleridge first threw that spell; but God's great,
woooooooooof? Wof Wooooooof wooof wooof woof wooof; wof Wof'w wooof,

unflattering laureate, Nature.*
woooooooooof woooooof, Woooof.*







*I remember the first albatross I ever saw. It was during a prolonged
*W woooooof wof wooof wooooooof W woof wof. Wf wof woooof w wooooooof

gale, in waters hard upon the Antarctic seas. From my forenoon watch
woof, wf woooof woof woof wof Wooooooof woof. Woof wf woooooof wooof

below, I ascended to the overclouded deck; and there, dashed upon the
wooof, W woooooof wf wof wooooooooof woof; wof wooof, woooof woof wof

main hatches, I saw a regal, feathery thing of unspotted whiteness, and
woof wooooof, W wof w wooof, woooooof wooof wf wooooooof wooooooof, wof

with a hooked, Roman bill sublime. At intervals, it arched forth
woof w woooof, Wooof woof wooooof. Wf wooooooof, wf woooof wooof

its vast archangel wings, as if to embrace some holy ark. Wondrous
wof woof wooooooof wooof, wf wf wf wooooof woof woof wof. Woooooof

flutterings and throbbings shook it. Though bodily unharmed, it uttered
wooooooooof wof woooooooof wooof wf. Woooof woooof woooooof, wf wooooof

cries, as some king's ghost in supernatural distress. Through its
wooof, wf woof woof'w wooof wf woooooooooof woooooof. Wooooof wof

inexpressible, strange eyes, methought I peeped to secrets which took
wooooooooooof, wooooof woof, wooooooof W woooof wf wooooof wooof woof

hold of God. As Abraham before the angels, I bowed myself; the white
woof wf Wof. Wf Wooooof woooof wof woooof, W wooof woooof; wof wooof

thing was so white, its wings so wide, and in those for ever exiled
wooof wof wf wooof, wof wooof wf woof, wof wf wooof wof woof woooof

waters, I had lost the miserable warping memories of traditions and of
woooof, W wof woof wof wooooooof wooooof woooooof wf woooooooof wof wf

towns. Long I gazed at that prodigy of plumage. I cannot tell, can only
wooof. Woof W wooof wf woof wooooof wf wooooof. W woooof woof, wof woof

hint, the things that darted through me then. But at last I awoke; and
woof, wof woooof woof woooof wooooof wf woof. Wof wf woof W wooof; wof

turning, asked a sailor what bird was this. A goney, he replied. Goney!
wooooof, wooof w woooof woof woof wof woof. W wooof, wf wooooof. Wooof!

never had heard that name before; is it conceivable that this glorious
wooof wof wooof woof woof woooof; wf wf wooooooooof woof woof woooooof

thing is utterly unknown to men ashore! never! But some time after, I
wooof wf wooooof wooooof wf wof woooof! wooof! Wof woof woof wooof, W

learned that goney was some seaman's name for albatross. So that by no
wooooof woof wooof wof woof woooof'w woof wof wooooooof. Wf woof wf wf

possibility could Coleridge's wild Rhyme have had aught to do with those
wooooooooof wooof Wooooooof'w woof Wooof woof wof wooof wf wf woof wooof

mystical impressions which were mine, when I saw that bird upon our
woooooof wooooooooof wooof woof woof, woof W wof woof woof woof wof

deck. For neither had I then read the Rhyme, nor knew the bird to be
woof. Wof wooooof wof W woof woof wof Wooof, wof woof wof woof wf wf

an albatross. Yet, in saying this, I do but indirectly burnish a little
wf wooooooof. Wof, wf woooof woof, W wf wof woooooooof wooooof w woooof

brighter the noble merit of the poem and the poet.
woooooof wof wooof wooof wf wof woof wof wof woof.




I assert, then, that in the wondrous bodily whiteness of the bird
W woooof, woof, woof wf wof woooooof woooof wooooooof wf wof woof

chiefly lurks the secret of the spell; a truth the more evinced in this,
wooooof wooof wof woooof wf wof wooof; w wooof wof woof wooooof wf woof,

that by a solecism of terms there are birds called grey albatrosses;
woof wf w woooooof wf wooof wooof wof wooof woooof woof wooooooooof;

and these I have frequently seen, but never with such emotions as when I
wof wooof W woof woooooooof woof, wof wooof woof woof woooooof wf woof W

beheld the Antarctic fowl.
woooof wof Wooooooof woof.




But how had the mystic thing been caught? Whisper it not, and I will
Wof wof wof wof woooof wooof woof woooof? Wooooof wf wof, wof W woof

tell; with a treacherous hook and line, as the fowl floated on the sea.
woof; woof w wooooooooof woof wof woof, wf wof woof wooooof wf wof wof.

At last the Captain made a postman of it; tying a lettered, leathern
Wf woof wof Wooooof woof w wooooof wf wf; wooof w woooooof, woooooof

tally round its neck, with the ship's time and place; and then letting
wooof wooof wof woof, woof wof woof'w woof wof wooof; wof woof wooooof

it escape. But I doubt not, that leathern tally, meant for man, was
wf woooof. Wof W wooof wof, woof woooooof wooof, wooof wof wof, wof

taken off in Heaven, when the white fowl flew to join the wing-folding,
wooof wof wf Woooof, woof wof wooof woof woof wf woof wof woof-wooooof,

the invoking, and adoring cherubim!
wof woooooof, wof wooooof woooooof!







Most famous in our Western annals and Indian traditions is that of
Woof woooof wf wof Wooooof woooof wof Woooof woooooooof wf woof wf

the White Steed of the Prairies; a magnificent milk-white charger,
wof Wooof Wooof wf wof Woooooof; w wooooooooof woof-wooof wooooof,

large-eyed, small-headed, bluff-chested, and with the dignity of a
wooof-woof, wooof-woooof, wooof-wooooof, wof woof wof wooooof wf w

thousand monarchs in his lofty, overscorning carriage. He was the
woooooof woooooof wf wof wooof, woooooooooof woooooof. Wf wof wof

elected Xerxes of vast herds of wild horses, whose pastures in those
wooooof Woooof wf woof wooof wf woof woooof, wooof woooooof wf wooof

days were only fenced by the Rocky Mountains and the Alleghanies. At
woof woof woof woooof wf wof Wooof Wooooooof wof wof Wooooooooof. Wf

their flaming head he westward trooped it like that chosen star which
wooof wooooof woof wf woooooof wooooof wf woof woof woooof woof wooof

every evening leads on the hosts of light. The flashing cascade of his
wooof wooooof wooof wf wof wooof wf wooof. Wof woooooof wooooof wf wof

mane, the curving comet of his tail, invested him with housings more
woof, wof wooooof wooof wf wof woof, woooooof wof woof woooooof woof

resplendent than gold and silver-beaters could have furnished him. A
wooooooooof woof woof wof woooof-wooooof wooof woof wooooooof wof. W

most imperial and archangelical apparition of that unfallen, western
woof woooooof wof wooooooooooof woooooooof wf woof woooooof, wooooof

world, which to the eyes of the old trappers and hunters revived the
wooof, wooof wf wof woof wf wof wof woooooof wof wooooof wooooof wof

glories of those primeval times when Adam walked majestic as a god,
wooooof wf wooof woooooof wooof woof Woof woooof woooooof wf w wof,

bluff-browed and fearless as this mighty steed. Whether marching amid
wooof-woooof wof woooooof wf woof woooof wooof. Wooooof woooooof woof

his aides and marshals in the van of countless cohorts that endlessly
wof wooof wof woooooof wf wof wof wf wooooooof wooooof woof wooooooof

streamed it over the plains, like an Ohio; or whether with his
woooooof wf woof wof woooof, woof wf Woof; wf wooooof woof wof

circumambient subjects browsing all around at the horizon, the White
wooooooooooof woooooof woooooof wof woooof wf wof wooooof, wof Wooof

Steed gallopingly reviewed them with warm nostrils reddening through his
Wooof wooooooooof woooooof woof woof woof woooooof wooooooof wooooof wof

cool milkiness; in whatever aspect he presented himself, always to the
woof wooooooof; wf woooooof woooof wf wooooooof wooooof, woooof wf wof

bravest Indians he was the object of trembling reverence and awe. Nor
wooooof Wooooof wf wof wof woooof wf wooooooof wooooooof wof wof. Wof

can it be questioned from what stands on legendary record of this noble
wof wf wf woooooooof woof woof woooof wf wooooooof woooof wf woof wooof

horse, that it was his spiritual whiteness chiefly, which so clothed him
wooof, woof wf wof wof wooooooof wooooooof wooooof, wooof wf wooooof wof

with divineness; and that this divineness had that in it which, though
woof woooooooof; wof woof woof woooooooof wof woof wf wf wooof, woooof

commanding worship, at the same time enforced a certain nameless terror.
woooooooof wooooof, wf wof woof woof woooooof w wooooof woooooof woooof.




But there are other instances where this whiteness loses all that
Wof wooof wof wooof wooooooof wooof woof wooooooof wooof wof woof

accessory and strange glory which invests it in the White Steed and
wooooooof wof wooooof wooof wooof wooooof wf wf wof Wooof Wooof wof

Albatross.
Wooooooof.




What is it that in the Albino man so peculiarly repels and often shocks
Woof wf wf woof wf wof Woooof wof wf woooooooof woooof wof wooof woooof

the eye, as that sometimes he is loathed by his own kith and kin! It
wof wof, wf woof wooooooof wf wf wooooof wf wof wof woof wof wof! Wf

is that whiteness which invests him, a thing expressed by the name
wf woof wooooooof wooof wooooof wof, w wooof wooooooof wf wof woof

he bears. The Albino is as well made as other men--has no substantive
wf wooof. Wof Woooof wf wf woof woof wf wooof wof--wof wf wooooooooof

deformity--and yet this mere aspect of all-pervading whiteness makes him
wooooooof--wof wof woof woof woooof wf wof-wooooooof wooooooof wooof wof

more strangely hideous than the ugliest abortion. Why should this be so?
woof wooooooof wooooof woof wof wooooof woooooof. Wof woooof woof wf wf?




Nor, in quite other aspects, does Nature in her least palpable but
Wof, wf wooof wooof wooooof, woof Woooof wf wof wooof woooooof wof

not the less malicious agencies, fail to enlist among her forces
wof wof woof wooooooof woooooof, woof wf woooof wooof wof woooof

this crowning attribute of the terrible. From its snowy aspect, the
woof woooooof wooooooof wf wof woooooof. Woof wof wooof woooof, wof

gauntleted ghost of the Southern Seas has been denominated the White
woooooooof wooof wf wof Woooooof Woof wof woof wooooooooof wof Wooof

Squall. Nor, in some historic instances, has the art of human malice
Woooof. Wof, wf woof woooooof wooooooof, wof wof wof wf wooof woooof

omitted so potent an auxiliary. How wildly it heightens the effect of
wooooof wf woooof wf wooooooof. Wof woooof wf wooooooof wof woooof wf

that passage in Froissart, when, masked in the snowy symbol of their
woof wooooof wf Wooooooof, woof, woooof wf wof wooof woooof wf wooof

faction, the desperate White Hoods of Ghent murder their bailiff in the
wooooof, wof wooooooof Wooof Wooof wf Wooof woooof wooof wooooof wf wof

market-place!
woooof-wooof!




Nor, in some things, does the common, hereditary experience of all
Wof, wf woof woooof, woof wof woooof, woooooooof woooooooof wf wof

mankind fail to bear witness to the supernaturalism of this hue. It
wooooof woof wf woof wooooof wf wof wooooooooooooof wf woof wof. Wf

cannot well be doubted, that the one visible quality in the aspect of
woooof woof wf wooooof, woof wof wof wooooof wooooof wf wof woooof wf

the dead which most appals the gazer, is the marble pallor lingering
wof woof wooof woof woooof wof wooof, wf wof woooof woooof wooooooof

there; as if indeed that pallor were as much like the badge of
wooof; wf wf woooof woof woooof woof wf woof woof wof wooof wf

consternation in the other world, as of mortal trepidation here. And
wooooooooooof wf wof wooof wooof, wf wf woooof wooooooooof woof. Wof

from that pallor of the dead, we borrow the expressive hue of the shroud
woof woof woooof wf wof woof, wf woooof wof woooooooof wof wf wof woooof

in which we wrap them. Nor even in our superstitions do we fail to
wf wooof wf woof woof. Wof woof wf wof wooooooooooof wf wf woof wf

throw the same snowy mantle round our phantoms; all ghosts rising in a
wooof wof woof wooof woooof wooof wof woooooof; wof woooof woooof wf w

milk-white fog--Yea, while these terrors seize us, let us add, that even
woof-wooof wof--Wof, wooof wooof wooooof wooof wf, wof wf wof, woof woof

the king of terrors, when personified by the evangelist, rides on his
wof woof wf wooooof, woof wooooooooof wf wof woooooooof, wooof wf wof

pallid horse.
woooof wooof.




Therefore, in his other moods, symbolize whatever grand or gracious
Wooooooof, wf wof wooof wooof, wooooooof woooooof wooof wf woooooof

thing he will by whiteness, no man can deny that in its profoundest
wooof wf woof wf wooooooof, wf wof wof woof woof wf wof wooooooooof

idealized significance it calls up a peculiar apparition to the soul.
wooooooof woooooooooof wf wooof wf w woooooof woooooooof wf wof woof.




But though without dissent this point be fixed, how is mortal man to
Wof woooof wooooof wooooof woof wooof wf wooof, wof wf woooof wof wf

account for it? To analyse it, would seem impossible. Can we, then,
wooooof wof wf? Wf wooooof wf, wooof woof woooooooof. Wof wf, woof,

by the citation of some of those instances wherein this thing of
wf wof woooooof wf woof wf wooof wooooooof wooooof woof wooof wf

whiteness--though for the time either wholly or in great part stripped
wooooooof--woooof wof wof woof woooof woooof wf wf wooof woof woooooof

of all direct associations calculated to impart to it aught fearful,
wf wof woooof woooooooooof woooooooof wf woooof wf wf wooof wooooof,

but nevertheless, is found to exert over us the same sorcery, however
wof woooooooooof, wf wooof wf wooof woof wf wof woof wooooof, wooooof

modified;--can we thus hope to light upon some chance clue to conduct us
woooooof;--wof wf woof woof wf wooof woof woof woooof woof wf wooooof wf

to the hidden cause we seek?
wf wof woooof wooof wf woof?




Let us try. But in a matter like this, subtlety appeals to subtlety,
Wof wf wof. Wof wf w woooof woof woof, woooooof wooooof wf woooooof,

and without imagination no man can follow another into these halls. And
wof wooooof wooooooooof wf wof wof woooof wooooof woof wooof wooof. Wof

though, doubtless, some at least of the imaginative impressions about
woooof, wooooooof, woof wf wooof wf wof wooooooooof wooooooooof wooof

to be presented may have been shared by most men, yet few perhaps were
wf wf wooooooof wof woof woof woooof wf woof wof, wof wof wooooof woof

entirely conscious of them at the time, and therefore may not be able to
woooooof wooooooof wf woof wf wof woof, wof wooooooof wof wof wf woof wf

recall them now.
woooof woof wof.




Why to the man of untutored ideality, who happens to be but loosely
Wof wf wof wof wf wooooooof woooooof, wof wooooof wf wf wof wooooof

acquainted with the peculiar character of the day, does the bare mention
woooooooof woof wof woooooof wooooooof wf wof wof, woof wof woof wooooof

of Whitsuntide marshal in the fancy such long, dreary, speechless
wf Wooooooooof wooooof wf wof wooof woof woof, woooof, woooooooof

processions of slow-pacing pilgrims, down-cast and hooded with
wooooooooof wf woof-woooof woooooof, woof-woof wof woooof woof

new-fallen snow? Or, to the unread, unsophisticated Protestant of the
wof-woooof woof? Wf, wf wof woooof, wooooooooooooof Woooooooof wf wof

Middle American States, why does the passing mention of a White Friar or
Woooof Woooooof Woooof, wof woof wof wooooof wooooof wf w Wooof Wooof wf

a White Nun, evoke such an eyeless statue in the soul?
w Wooof Wof, wooof woof wf wooooof woooof wf wof woof?




Or what is there apart from the traditions of dungeoned warriors and
Wf woof wf wooof wooof woof wof woooooooof wf wooooooof woooooof wof

kings (which will not wholly account for it) that makes the White
wooof (wooof woof wof woooof wooooof wof wf) woof wooof wof Wooof

Tower of London tell so much more strongly on the imagination of
Wooof wf Woooof woof wf woof woof woooooof wf wof wooooooooof wf

an untravelled American, than those other storied structures, its
wf wooooooooof Woooooof, woof wooof wooof wooooof woooooooof, wof

neighbors--the Byward Tower, or even the Bloody? And those sublimer
wooooooof--wof Woooof Wooof, wf woof wof Woooof? Wof wooof woooooof

towers, the White Mountains of New Hampshire, whence, in peculiar moods,
woooof, wof Wooof Wooooooof wf Wof Wooooooof, woooof, wf woooooof wooof,

comes that gigantic ghostliness over the soul at the bare mention of
wooof woof woooooof wooooooooof woof wof woof wf wof woof wooooof wf

that name, while the thought of Virginia's Blue Ridge is full of a soft,
woof woof, wooof wof wooooof wf Woooooof'w Woof Wooof wf woof wf w woof,

dewy, distant dreaminess? Or why, irrespective of all latitudes and
woof, wooooof woooooooof? Wf wof, woooooooooof wf wof wooooooof wof

longitudes, does the name of the White Sea exert such a spectralness
woooooooof, woof wof woof wf wof Wooof Wof wooof woof w woooooooooof

over the fancy, while that of the Yellow Sea lulls us with mortal
woof wof wooof, wooof woof wf wof Woooof Wof wooof wf woof woooof

thoughts of long lacquered mild afternoons on the waves, followed by
woooooof wf woof wooooooof woof woooooooof wf wof wooof, woooooof wf

the gaudiest and yet sleepiest of sunsets? Or, to choose a wholly
wof woooooof wof wof wooooooof wf wooooof? Wf, wf woooof w woooof

unsubstantial instance, purely addressed to the fancy, why, in reading
wooooooooooof woooooof, woooof wooooooof wf wof wooof, wof, wf wooooof

the old fairy tales of Central Europe, does "the tall pale man" of the
wof wof wooof wooof wf Wooooof Woooof, woof "wof woof woof wof" wf wof

Hartz forests, whose changeless pallor unrustlingly glides through the
Wooof wooooof, wooof woooooooof woooof woooooooooof woooof wooooof wof

green of the groves--why is this phantom more terrible than all the
wooof wf wof woooof--wof wf woof wooooof woof woooooof woof wof wof

whooping imps of the Blocksburg?
woooooof woof wf wof Woooooooof?




Nor is it, altogether, the remembrance of her cathedral-toppling
Wof wf wf, woooooooof, wof wooooooooof wf wof wooooooof-woooooof

earthquakes; nor the stampedoes of her frantic seas; nor the
wooooooooof; wof wof woooooooof wf wof wooooof woof; wof wof

tearlessness of arid skies that never rain; nor the sight of her wide
woooooooooof wf woof wooof woof wooof woof; wof wof wooof wf wof woof

field of leaning spires, wrenched cope-stones, and crosses all adroop
wooof wf wooooof woooof, woooooof woof-woooof, wof wooooof wof woooof

(like canted yards of anchored fleets); and her suburban avenues of
(woof woooof wooof wf woooooof woooof); wof wof woooooof wooooof wf

house-walls lying over upon each other, as a tossed pack of cards;--it
wooof-wooof wooof woof woof woof wooof, wf w woooof woof wf wooof;--wf

is not these things alone which make tearless Lima, the strangest,
wf wof wooof woooof wooof wooof woof woooooof Woof, wof wooooooof,

saddest city thou can'st see. For Lima has taken the white veil; and
wooooof woof woof wof'wf wof. Wof Woof wof wooof wof wooof woof; wof

there is a higher horror in this whiteness of her woe. Old as Pizarro,
wooof wf w woooof woooof wf woof wooooooof wf wof wof. Wof wf Wooooof,

this whiteness keeps her ruins for ever new; admits not the cheerful
woof wooooooof wooof wof wooof wof woof wof; woooof wof wof woooooof

greenness of complete decay; spreads over her broken ramparts the rigid
wooooooof wf woooooof wooof; wooooof woof wof woooof woooooof wof wooof

pallor of an apoplexy that fixes its own distortions.
woooof wf wf woooooof woof wooof wof wof wooooooooof.




I know that, to the common apprehension, this phenomenon of whiteness
W woof woof, wf wof woooof woooooooooof, woof woooooooof wf wooooooof

is not confessed to be the prime agent in exaggerating the terror of
wf wof wooooooof wf wf wof wooof wooof wf woooooooooof wof woooof wf

objects otherwise terrible; nor to the unimaginative mind is there aught
wooooof wooooooof woooooof; wof wf wof wooooooooooof woof wf wooof wooof

of terror in those appearances whose awfulness to another mind almost
wf woooof wf wooof wooooooooof wooof wooooooof wf wooooof woof woooof

solely consists in this one phenomenon, especially when exhibited under
woooof woooooof wf woof wof woooooooof, woooooooof woof wooooooof wooof

any form at all approaching to muteness or universality. What I mean
wof woof wf wof wooooooooof wf woooooof wf woooooooooof. Woof W woof

by these two statements may perhaps be respectively elucidated by the
wf wooof wof woooooooof wof wooooof wf woooooooooof woooooooof wf wof

following examples.
wooooooof woooooof.




First: The mariner, when drawing nigh the coasts of foreign lands, if by
Wooof: Wof wooooof, woof wooooof woof wof woooof wf wooooof wooof, wf wf

night he hear the roar of breakers, starts to vigilance, and feels just
wooof wf woof wof woof wf woooooof, woooof wf wooooooof, wof wooof woof

enough of trepidation to sharpen all his faculties; but under precisely
woooof wf wooooooooof wf wooooof wof wof wooooooof; wof wooof wooooooof

similar circumstances, let him be called from his hammock to view his
wooooof wooooooooooof, wof wof wf woooof woof wof wooooof wf woof wof

ship sailing through a midnight sea of milky whiteness--as if from
woof wooooof wooooof w woooooof wof wf wooof wooooooof--wf wf woof

encircling headlands shoals of combed white bears were swimming round
woooooooof wooooooof woooof wf woooof wooof wooof woof woooooof wooof

him, then he feels a silent, superstitious dread; the shrouded phantom
wof, woof wf wooof w woooof, wooooooooooof wooof; wof woooooof wooooof

of the whitened waters is horrible to him as a real ghost; in vain the
wf wof woooooof woooof wf woooooof wf wof wf w woof wooof; wf woof wof

lead assures him he is still off soundings; heart and helm they both go
woof wooooof wof wf wf wooof wof wooooooof; wooof wof woof woof woof wf

down; he never rests till blue water is under him again. Yet where is
woof; wf wooof wooof woof woof wooof wf wooof wof wooof. Wof wooof wf

the mariner who will tell thee, "Sir, it was not so much the fear of
wof wooooof wof woof woof woof, "Wof, wf wof wof wf woof wof woof wf

striking hidden rocks, as the fear of that hideous whiteness that so
woooooof woooof wooof, wf wof woof wf woof wooooof wooooooof woof wf

stirred me?"
wooooof wf?"




Second: To the native Indian of Peru, the continual sight of the
Woooof: Wf wof woooof Woooof wf Woof, wof wooooooof wooof wf wof

snowhowdahed Andes conveys naught of dread, except, perhaps, in the
woooooooooof Wooof wooooof woooof wf wooof, woooof, wooooof, wf wof

mere fancying of the eternal frosted desolateness reigning at such vast
woof woooooof wf wof wooooof wooooof woooooooooof woooooof wf woof woof

altitudes, and the natural conceit of what a fearfulness it would be
wooooooof, wof wof wooooof wooooof wf woof w wooooooooof wf wooof wf

to lose oneself in such inhuman solitudes. Much the same is it with the
wf woof wooooof wf woof wooooof wooooooof. Woof wof woof wf wf woof wof

backwoodsman of the West, who with comparative indifference views an
woooooooooof wf wof Woof, wof woof wooooooooof woooooooooof wooof wf

unbounded prairie sheeted with driven snow, no shadow of tree or twig
wooooooof wooooof wooooof woof woooof woof, wf woooof wf woof wf woof

to break the fixed trance of whiteness. Not so the sailor, beholding the
wf wooof wof wooof woooof wf wooooooof. Wof wf wof woooof, wooooooof wof

scenery of the Antarctic seas; where at times, by some infernal trick
wooooof wf wof Wooooooof woof; wooof wf wooof, wf woof woooooof wooof

of legerdemain in the powers of frost and air, he, shivering and half
wf wooooooooof wf wof woooof wf wooof wof wof, wf, wooooooof wof woof

shipwrecked, instead of rainbows speaking hope and solace to his misery,
wooooooooof, wooooof wf woooooof woooooof woof wof woooof wf wof woooof,

views what seems a boundless churchyard grinning upon him with its lean
wooof woof wooof w wooooooof woooooooof woooooof woof wof woof wof woof

ice monuments and splintered crosses.
wof wooooooof wof woooooooof wooooof.




But thou sayest, methinks that white-lead chapter about whiteness is but
Wof woof woooof, woooooof woof wooof-woof wooooof wooof wooooooof wf wof

a white flag hung out from a craven soul; thou surrenderest to a hypo,
w wooof woof woof wof woof w woooof woof; woof woooooooooof wf w woof,

Ishmael.
Wooooof.




Tell me, why this strong young colt, foaled in some peaceful valley of
Woof wf, wof woof woooof wooof woof, woooof wf woof woooooof woooof wf

Vermont, far removed from all beasts of prey--why is it that upon the
Wooooof, wof wooooof woof wof woooof wf woof--wof wf wf woof woof wof

sunniest day, if you but shake a fresh buffalo robe behind him, so that
woooooof wof, wf wof wof wooof w wooof wooooof woof woooof wof, wf woof

he cannot even see it, but only smells its wild animal muskiness--why
wf woooof woof wof wf, wof woof woooof wof woof woooof wooooooof--wof

will he start, snort, and with bursting eyes paw the ground in phrensies
woof wf wooof, wooof, wof woof woooooof woof wof wof woooof wf wooooooof

of affright? There is no remembrance in him of any gorings of wild
wf woooooof? Wooof wf wf wooooooooof wf wof wf wof wooooof wf woof

creatures in his green northern home, so that the strange muskiness he
wooooooof wf wof wooof woooooof woof, wf woof wof wooooof wooooooof wf

smells cannot recall to him anything associated with the experience of
woooof woooof woooof wf wof woooooof woooooooof woof wof woooooooof wf

former perils; for what knows he, this New England colt, of the black
woooof woooof; wof woof wooof wf, woof Wof Wooooof woof, wf wof wooof

bisons of distant Oregon?
woooof wf wooooof Woooof?




No; but here thou beholdest even in a dumb brute, the instinct of the
Wf; wof woof woof wooooooof woof wf w woof wooof, wof woooooof wf wof

knowledge of the demonism in the world. Though thousands of miles from
wooooooof wf wof woooooof wf wof wooof. Woooof wooooooof wf wooof woof

Oregon, still when he smells that savage musk, the rending, goring bison
Woooof, wooof woof wf woooof woof woooof woof, wof wooooof, woooof wooof

herds are as present as to the deserted wild foal of the prairies, which
wooof wof wf wooooof wf wf wof woooooof woof woof wf wof woooooof, wooof

this instant they may be trampling into dust.
woof wooooof woof wof wf wooooooof woof woof.




Thus, then, the muffled rollings of a milky sea; the bleak rustlings
Woof, woof, wof wooooof woooooof wf w wooof wof; wof wooof wooooooof

of the festooned frosts of mountains; the desolate shiftings of the
wf wof wooooooof woooof wf wooooooof; wof woooooof wooooooof wf wof

windrowed snows of prairies; all these, to Ishmael, are as the shaking
wooooooof wooof wf woooooof; wof wooof, wf Wooooof, wof wf wof wooooof

of that buffalo robe to the frightened colt!
wf woof wooooof woof wf wof woooooooof woof!




Though neither knows where lie the nameless things of which the mystic
Woooof wooooof wooof wooof wof wof woooooof woooof wf wooof wof woooof

sign gives forth such hints; yet with me, as with the colt, somewhere
woof wooof wooof woof wooof; wof woof wf, wf woof wof woof, wooooooof

those things must exist. Though in many of its aspects this visible
wooof woooof woof wooof. Woooof wf woof wf wof wooooof woof wooooof

world seems formed in love, the invisible spheres were formed in fright.
wooof wooof woooof wf woof, wof wooooooof wooooof woof woooof wf woooof.




But not yet have we solved the incantation of this whiteness, and
Wof wof wof woof wf woooof wof wooooooooof wf woof wooooooof, wof

learned why it appeals with such power to the soul; and more strange
wooooof wof wf wooooof woof woof wooof wf wof woof; wof woof wooooof

and far more portentous--why, as we have seen, it is at once the
wof wof woof woooooooof--wof, wf wf woof woof, wf wf wf woof wof

most meaning symbol of spiritual things, nay, the very veil of the
woof wooooof woooof wf wooooooof woooof, wof, wof woof woof wf wof

Christian's Deity; and yet should be as it is, the intensifying agent in
Wooooooof'w Wooof; wof wof woooof wf wf wf wf, wof woooooooooof wooof wf

things the most appalling to mankind.
woooof wof woof wooooooof wf wooooof.




Is it that by its indefiniteness it shadows forth the heartless voids
Wf wf woof wf wof woooooooooooof wf wooooof wooof wof wooooooof wooof

and immensities of the universe, and thus stabs us from behind with the
wof wooooooooof wf wof woooooof, wof woof wooof wf woof woooof woof wof

thought of annihilation, when beholding the white depths of the milky
wooooof wf woooooooooof, woof wooooooof wof wooof woooof wf wof wooof

way? Or is it, that as in essence whiteness is not so much a colour as
wof? Wf wf wf, woof wf wf wooooof wooooooof wf wof wf woof w woooof wf

the visible absence of colour; and at the same time the concrete of all
wof wooooof wooooof wf woooof; wof wf wof woof woof wof woooooof wf wof

colours; is it for these reasons that there is such a dumb blankness,
wooooof; wf wf wof wooof wooooof woof wooof wf woof w woof wooooooof,

full of meaning, in a wide landscape of snows--a colourless, all-colour
woof wf wooooof, wf w woof wooooooof wf wooof--w woooooooof, wof-woooof

of atheism from which we shrink? And when we consider that other theory
wf wooooof woof wooof wf woooof? Wof woof wf woooooof woof wooof woooof

of the natural philosophers, that all other earthly hues--every stately
wf wof wooooof woooooooooof, woof wof wooof wooooof woof--wooof wooooof

or lovely emblazoning--the sweet tinges of sunset skies and woods; yea,
wf woooof wooooooooof--wof wooof woooof wf woooof wooof wof wooof; wof,

and the gilded velvets of butterflies, and the butterfly cheeks of
wof wof woooof wooooof wf wooooooooof, wof wof wooooooof woooof wf

young girls; all these are but subtile deceits, not actually inherent
wooof wooof; wof wooof wof wof wooooof wooooof, wof woooooof woooooof

in substances, but only laid on from without; so that all deified Nature
wf woooooooof, wof woof woof wf woof wooooof; wf woof wof wooooof Woooof

absolutely paints like the harlot, whose allurements cover nothing but
woooooooof woooof woof wof woooof, wooof wooooooooof wooof wooooof wof

the charnel-house within; and when we proceed further, and consider that
wof wooooof-wooof woooof; wof woof wf wooooof wooooof, wof woooooof woof

the mystical cosmetic which produces every one of her hues, the great
wof woooooof woooooof wooof woooooof wooof wof wf wof woof, wof wooof

principle of light, for ever remains white or colourless in itself, and
wooooooof wf wooof, wof woof wooooof wooof wf woooooooof wf woooof, wof

if operating without medium upon matter, would touch all objects, even
wf wooooooof wooooof woooof woof woooof, wooof wooof wof wooooof, woof

tulips and roses, with its own blank tinge--pondering all this, the
woooof wof wooof, woof wof wof wooof wooof--wooooooof wof woof, wof

palsied universe lies before us a leper; and like wilful travellers in
wooooof woooooof woof woooof wf w wooof; wof woof woooof woooooooof wf

Lapland, who refuse to wear coloured and colouring glasses upon their
Wooooof, wof woooof wf woof woooooof wof wooooooof wooooof woof wooof

eyes, so the wretched infidel gazes himself blind at the monumental
woof, wf wof woooooof wooooof wooof wooooof wooof wf wof woooooooof

white shroud that wraps all the prospect around him. And of all these
wooof woooof woof wooof wof wof woooooof woooof wof. Wof wf wof wooof

things the Albino whale was the symbol. Wonder ye then at the fiery
woooof wof Woooof wooof wof wof woooof. Woooof wf woof wf wof wooof

hunt?
woof?










CHAPTER 43. Hark!
WOOOOOF wf. Woof!







"HIST! Did you hear that noise, Cabaco?"
"WOOF! Wof wof woof woof wooof, Woooof?"




It was the middle-watch; a fair moonlight; the seamen were standing in a
Wf wof wof woooof-wooof; w woof wooooooof; wof woooof woof woooooof wf w

cordon, extending from one of the fresh-water butts in the waist, to the
woooof, wooooooof woof wof wf wof wooof-wooof wooof wf wof wooof, wf wof

scuttle-butt near the taffrail. In this manner, they passed the buckets
wooooof-woof woof wof woooooof. Wf woof woooof, woof woooof wof wooooof

to fill the scuttle-butt. Standing, for the most part, on the hallowed
wf woof wof wooooof-woof. Woooooof, wof wof woof woof, wf wof woooooof

precincts of the quarter-deck, they were careful not to speak or rustle
wooooooof wf wof wooooof-woof, woof woof wooooof wof wf wooof wf woooof

their feet. From hand to hand, the buckets went in the deepest silence,
wooof woof. Woof woof wf woof, wof wooooof woof wf wof wooooof wooooof,

only broken by the occasional flap of a sail, and the steady hum of the
woof woooof wf wof woooooooof woof wf w woof, wof wof woooof wof wf wof

unceasingly advancing keel.
wooooooooof wooooooof woof.




It was in the midst of this repose, that Archy, one of the cordon, whose
Wf wof wf wof wooof wf woof woooof, woof Wooof, wof wf wof woooof, wooof

post was near the after-hatches, whispered to his neighbor, a Cholo, the
woof wof woof wof wooof-wooooof, wooooooof wf wof woooooof, w Wooof, wof

words above.
wooof wooof.




"Hist! did you hear that noise, Cabaco?"
"Woof! wof wof woof woof wooof, Woooof?"




"Take the bucket, will ye, Archy? what noise d'ye mean?"
"Woof wof woooof, woof wf, Wooof? woof wooof w'wf woof?"




"There it is again--under the hatches--don't you hear it--a cough--it
"Wooof wf wf wooof--wooof wof wooooof--wof'w wof woof wf--w wooof--wf

sounded like a cough."
wooooof woof w wooof."




"Cough be damned! Pass along that return bucket."
"Wooof wf woooof! Woof wooof woof woooof woooof."




"There again--there it is!--it sounds like two or three sleepers turning
"Wooof wooof--wooof wf wf!--wf woooof woof wof wf wooof woooooof wooooof

over, now!"
woof, wof!"




"Caramba! have done, shipmate, will ye? It's the three soaked biscuits
"Wooooof! woof woof, woooooof, woof wf? Wf'w wof wooof woooof woooooof

ye eat for supper turning over inside of ye--nothing else. Look to the
wf wof wof woooof wooooof woof woooof wf wf--wooooof woof. Woof wf wof

bucket!"
woooof!"




"Say what ye will, shipmate; I've sharp ears."
"Wof woof wf woof, woooooof; W'wf wooof woof."




"Aye, you are the chap, ain't ye, that heard the hum of the old
"Wof, wof wof wof woof, wof'w wf, woof wooof wof wof wf wof wof

Quakeress's knitting-needles fifty miles at sea from Nantucket; you're
Wooooooof'w woooooof-wooooof wooof wooof wf wof woof Wooooooof; wof'wf

the chap."
wof woof."




"Grin away; we'll see what turns up. Hark ye, Cabaco, there is somebody
"Woof woof; wf'wf wof woof wooof wf. Woof wf, Woooof, wooof wf woooooof

down in the after-hold that has not yet been seen on deck; and I suspect
woof wf wof wooof-woof woof wof wof wof woof woof wf woof; wof W wooooof

our old Mogul knows something of it too. I heard Stubb tell Flask, one
wof wof Wooof wooof wooooooof wf wf wof. W wooof Wooof woof Wooof, wof

morning watch, that there was something of that sort in the wind."
wooooof wooof, woof wooof wof wooooooof wf woof woof wf wof woof."




"Tish! the bucket!"
"Woof! wof woooof!"










CHAPTER 44. The Chart.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Wooof.







Had you followed Captain Ahab down into his cabin after the squall that
Wof wof woooooof Wooooof Woof woof woof wof wooof wooof wof woooof woof

took place on the night succeeding that wild ratification of his purpose
woof wooof wf wof wooof woooooooof woof woof woooooooooof wf wof wooooof

with his crew, you would have seen him go to a locker in the transom,
woof wof woof, wof wooof woof woof wof wf wf w woooof wf wof wooooof,

and bringing out a large wrinkled roll of yellowish sea charts, spread
wof woooooof wof w wooof woooooof woof wf wooooooof wof woooof, woooof

them before him on his screwed-down table. Then seating himself before
woof woooof wof wf wof wooooof-woof wooof. Woof wooooof wooooof woooof

it, you would have seen him intently study the various lines and
wf, wof wooof woof woof wof woooooof wooof wof wooooof wooof wof

shadings which there met his eye; and with slow but steady pencil trace
woooooof wooof wooof wof wof wof; wof woof woof wof woooof woooof wooof

additional courses over spaces that before were blank. At intervals, he
woooooooof wooooof woof woooof woof woooof woof wooof. Wf wooooooof, wf

would refer to piles of old log-books beside him, wherein were set down
wooof wooof wf wooof wf wof wof-wooof woooof wof, wooooof woof wof woof

the seasons and places in which, on various former voyages of various
wof wooooof wof woooof wf wooof, wf wooooof woooof wooooof wf wooooof

ships, sperm whales had been captured or seen.
wooof, wooof woooof wof woof woooooof wf woof.




While thus employed, the heavy pewter lamp suspended in chains over his
Wooof woof woooooof, wof wooof woooof woof wooooooof wf woooof woof wof

head, continually rocked with the motion of the ship, and for ever threw
woof, wooooooooof woooof woof wof woooof wf wof woof, wof wof woof wooof

shifting gleams and shadows of lines upon his wrinkled brow, till it
woooooof woooof wof wooooof wf wooof woof wof woooooof woof, woof wf

almost seemed that while he himself was marking out lines and courses
woooof woooof woof wooof wf wooooof wof wooooof wof wooof wof wooooof

on the wrinkled charts, some invisible pencil was also tracing lines and
wf wof woooooof woooof, woof wooooooof woooof wof woof wooooof wooof wof

courses upon the deeply marked chart of his forehead.
wooooof woof wof woooof woooof wooof wf wof woooooof.




But it was not this night in particular that, in the solitude of his
Wof wf wof wof woof wooof wf woooooooof woof, wf wof woooooof wf wof

cabin, Ahab thus pondered over his charts. Almost every night they were
wooof, Woof woof woooooof woof wof woooof. Woooof wooof wooof woof woof

brought out; almost every night some pencil marks were effaced, and
wooooof wof; woooof wooof wooof woof woooof wooof woof wooooof, wof

others were substituted. For with the charts of all four oceans before
woooof woof wooooooooof. Wof woof wof woooof wf wof woof woooof woooof

him, Ahab was threading a maze of currents and eddies, with a view to
wof, Woof wof wooooooof w woof wf woooooof wof woooof, woof w woof wf

the more certain accomplishment of that monomaniac thought of his soul.
wof woof wooooof woooooooooooof wf woof woooooooof wooooof wf wof woof.




Now, to any one not fully acquainted with the ways of the leviathans,
Wof, wf wof wof wof wooof woooooooof woof wof woof wf wof woooooooof,

it might seem an absurdly hopeless task thus to seek out one solitary
wf wooof woof wf woooooof woooooof woof woof wf woof wof wof woooooof

creature in the unhooped oceans of this planet. But not so did it
woooooof wf wof woooooof woooof wf woof woooof. Wof wof wf wof wf

seem to Ahab, who knew the sets of all tides and currents; and thereby
woof wf Woof, wof woof wof woof wf wof wooof wof woooooof; wof wooooof

calculating the driftings of the sperm whale's food; and, also, calling
wooooooooof wof wooooooof wf wof wooof wooof'w woof; wof, woof, wooooof

to mind the regular, ascertained seasons for hunting him in particular
wf woof wof wooooof, wooooooooof wooooof wof wooooof wof wf woooooooof

latitudes; could arrive at reasonable surmises, almost approaching to
wooooooof; wooof woooof wf woooooooof woooooof, woooof wooooooooof wf

certainties, concerning the timeliest day to be upon this or that ground
wooooooooof, woooooooof wof wooooooof wof wf wf woof woof wf woof woooof

in search of his prey.
wf woooof wf wof woof.




So assured, indeed, is the fact concerning the periodicalness of the
Wf wooooof, woooof, wf wof woof woooooooof wof woooooooooooof wf wof

sperm whale's resorting to given waters, that many hunters believe that,
wooof wooof'w wooooooof wf wooof woooof, woof woof wooooof wooooof woof,

could he be closely observed and studied throughout the world; were the
wooof wf wf wooooof woooooof wof wooooof woooooooof wof wooof; woof wof

logs for one voyage of the entire whale fleet carefully collated,
woof wof wof woooof wf wof woooof wooof wooof wooooooof woooooof,

then the migrations of the sperm whale would be found to correspond in
woof wof woooooooof wf wof wooof wooof wooof wf wooof wf woooooooof wf

invariability to those of the herring-shoals or the flights of swallows.
wooooooooooof wf wooof wf wof wooooof-woooof wf wof wooooof wf woooooof.

On this hint, attempts have been made to construct elaborate migratory
Wf woof woof, woooooof woof woof woof wf wooooooof wooooooof wooooooof

charts of the sperm whale.*
woooof wf wof wooof wooof.*




     *Since the above was written, the statement is happily borne
     *Wooof wof wooof wof wooooof, wof wooooooof wf wooooof wooof

     out by an official circular, issued by Lieutenant Maury, of
     wof wf wf woooooof woooooof, woooof wf Woooooooof Wooof, wf

     the National Observatory, Washington, April 16th, 1851. By
     wof Woooooof Wooooooooof, Woooooooof, Wooof woof, woof. Wf

     that circular, it appears that precisely such a chart is in
     woof woooooof, wf wooooof woof wooooooof woof w wooof wf wf

     course of completion; and portions of it are presented in
     woooof wf woooooooof; wof woooooof wf wf wof wooooooof wf

     the circular. "This chart divides the ocean into districts
     wof woooooof. "Woof wooof wooooof wof wooof woof wooooooof

     of five degrees of latitude by five degrees of longitude;
     wf woof wooooof wf woooooof wf woof wooooof wf wooooooof;

     perpendicularly through each of which districts are twelve
     wooooooooooooof wooooof woof wf wooof wooooooof wof woooof

     columns for the twelve months; and horizontally through each
     wooooof wof wof woooof woooof; wof woooooooooof wooooof woof

     of which districts are three lines; one to show the number
     wf wooof wooooooof wof wooof wooof; wof wf woof wof woooof

     of days that have been spent in each month in every
     wf woof woof woof woof wooof wf woof wooof wf wooof

     district, and the two others to show the number of days in
     woooooof, wof wof wof woooof wf woof wof woooof wf woof wf

     which whales, sperm or right, have been seen."
     wooof woooof, wooof wf wooof, woof woof woof."




Besides, when making a passage from one feeding-ground to another, the
Wooooof, woof woooof w wooooof woof wof wooooof-woooof wf wooooof, wof

sperm whales, guided by some infallible instinct--say, rather, secret
wooof woooof, woooof wf woof woooooooof woooooof--wof, woooof, woooof

intelligence from the Deity--mostly swim in VEINS, as they are called;
woooooooooof woof wof Wooof--woooof woof wf WOOOF, wf woof wof woooof;

continuing their way along a given ocean-line with such undeviating
woooooooof wooof wof wooof w wooof wooof-woof woof woof wooooooooof

exactitude, that no ship ever sailed her course, by any chart, with
woooooooof, woof wf woof woof woooof wof woooof, wf wof wooof, woof

one tithe of such marvellous precision. Though, in these cases, the
wof wooof wf woof woooooooof wooooooof. Woooof, wf wooof wooof, wof

direction taken by any one whale be straight as a surveyor's parallel,
wooooooof wooof wf wof wof wooof wf woooooof wf w woooooof'w woooooof,

and though the line of advance be strictly confined to its own
wof woooof wof woof wf wooooof wf woooooof woooooof wf wof wof

unavoidable, straight wake, yet the arbitrary VEIN in which at these
wooooooooof, woooooof woof, wof wof wooooooof WOOF wf wooof wf wooof

times he is said to swim, generally embraces some few miles in width
wooof wf wf woof wf woof, wooooooof woooooof woof wof wooof wf wooof

(more or less, as the vein is presumed to expand or contract); but
(woof wf woof, wf wof woof wf woooooof wf woooof wf woooooof); wof

never exceeds the visual sweep from the whale-ship's mast-heads,
wooof wooooof wof woooof wooof woof wof wooof-woof'w woof-wooof,

when circumspectly gliding along this magic zone. The sum is, that at
woof wooooooooooof wooooof wooof woof wooof woof. Wof wof wf, woof wf

particular seasons within that breadth and along that path, migrating
woooooooof wooooof woooof woof wooooof wof wooof woof woof, wooooooof

whales may with great confidence be looked for.
woooof wof woof wooof woooooooof wf woooof wof.




And hence not only at substantiated times, upon well known separate
Wof wooof wof woof wf wooooooooooof wooof, woof woof wooof woooooof

feeding-grounds, could Ahab hope to encounter his prey; but in crossing
wooooof-wooooof, wooof Woof woof wf wooooooof wof woof; wof wf woooooof

the widest expanses of water between those grounds he could, by his
wof woooof woooooof wf wooof wooooof wooof wooooof wf wooof, wf wof

art, so place and time himself on his way, as even then not to be wholly
wof, wf wooof wof woof wooooof wf wof wof, wf woof woof wof wf wf woooof

without prospect of a meeting.
wooooof woooooof wf w wooooof.




There was a circumstance which at first sight seemed to entangle his
Wooof wof w woooooooooof wooof wf wooof wooof woooof wf woooooof wof

delirious but still methodical scheme. But not so in the reality,
wooooooof wof wooof woooooooof woooof. Wof wof wf wf wof wooooof,

perhaps. Though the gregarious sperm whales have their regular seasons
wooooof. Woooof wof woooooooof wooof woooof woof wooof wooooof wooooof

for particular grounds, yet in general you cannot conclude that the
wof woooooooof wooooof, wof wf wooooof wof woooof woooooof woof wof

herds which haunted such and such a latitude or longitude this year,
wooof wooof wooooof woof wof woof w woooooof wf wooooooof woof woof,

say, will turn out to be identically the same with those that were found
wof, woof woof wof wf wf wooooooooof wof woof woof wooof woof woof wooof

there the preceding season; though there are peculiar and unquestionable
wooof wof wooooooof woooof; woooof wooof wof woooooof wof woooooooooooof

instances where the contrary of this has proved true. In general, the
wooooooof wooof wof woooooof wf woof wof woooof woof. Wf wooooof, wof

same remark, only within a less wide limit, applies to the solitaries
woof woooof, woof woooof w woof woof wooof, wooooof wf wof woooooooof

and hermits among the matured, aged sperm whales. So that though Moby
wof wooooof wooof wof wooooof, woof wooof woooof. Wf woof woooof Woof

Dick had in a former year been seen, for example, on what is called the
Woof wof wf w woooof woof woof woof, wof wooooof, wf woof wf woooof wof

Seychelle ground in the Indian ocean, or Volcano Bay on the Japanese
Wooooooof woooof wf wof Woooof wooof, wf Wooooof Wof wf wof Woooooof

Coast; yet it did not follow, that were the Pequod to visit either of
Wooof; wof wf wof wof woooof, woof woof wof Woooof wf wooof woooof wf

those spots at any subsequent corresponding season, she would infallibly
wooof wooof wf wof woooooooof wooooooooooof woooof, wof wooof woooooooof

encounter him there. So, too, with some other feeding grounds, where
wooooooof wof wooof. Wf, wof, woof woof wooof wooooof wooooof, wooof

he had at times revealed himself. But all these seemed only his casual
wf wof wf wooof woooooof wooooof. Wof wof wooof woooof woof wof woooof

stopping-places and ocean-inns, so to speak, not his places of prolonged
woooooof-woooof wof wooof-woof, wf wf wooof, wof wof woooof wf wooooooof

abode. And where Ahab's chances of accomplishing his object have
wooof. Wof wooof Woof'w wooooof wf wooooooooooof wof woooof woof

hitherto been spoken of, allusion has only been made to whatever
woooooof woof woooof wf, woooooof wof woof woof woof wf woooooof

way-side, antecedent, extra prospects were his, ere a particular
wof-woof, woooooooof, wooof wooooooof woof wof, wof w woooooooof

set time or place were attained, when all possibilities would become
wof woof wf wooof woof woooooof, woof wof wooooooooooof wooof woooof

probabilities, and, as Ahab fondly thought, every possibility the next
wooooooooooof, wof, wf Woof woooof wooooof, wooof wooooooooof wof woof

thing to a certainty. That particular set time and place were conjoined
wooof wf w wooooooof. Woof woooooooof wof woof wof wooof woof wooooooof

in the one technical phrase--the Season-on-the-Line. For there and then,
wf wof wof wooooooof woooof--wof Woooof-wf-wof-Woof. Wof wooof wof woof,

for several consecutive years, Moby Dick had been periodically descried,
wof wooooof wooooooooof wooof, Woof Woof wof woof woooooooooof woooooof,

lingering in those waters for awhile, as the sun, in its annual round,
wooooooof wf wooof woooof wof woooof, wf wof wof, wf wof woooof wooof,

loiters for a predicted interval in any one sign of the Zodiac. There
wooooof wof w wooooooof woooooof wf wof wof woof wf wof Woooof. Wooof

it was, too, that most of the deadly encounters with the white whale had
wf wof, wof, woof woof wf wof woooof woooooooof woof wof wooof wooof wof

taken place; there the waves were storied with his deeds; there also was
wooof wooof; wooof wof wooof woof wooooof woof wof wooof; wooof woof wof

that tragic spot where the monomaniac old man had found the awful motive
woof woooof woof wooof wof woooooooof wof wof wof wooof wof wooof woooof

to his vengeance. But in the cautious comprehensiveness and unloitering
wf wof wooooooof. Wof wf wof woooooof wooooooooooooooof wof wooooooooof

vigilance with which Ahab threw his brooding soul into this unfaltering
wooooooof woof wooof Woof wooof wof woooooof woof woof woof wooooooooof

hunt, he would not permit himself to rest all his hopes upon the one
woof, wf wooof wof woooof wooooof wf woof wof wof wooof woof wof wof

crowning fact above mentioned, however flattering it might be to those
woooooof woof wooof wooooooof, wooooof woooooooof wf wooof wf wf wooof

hopes; nor in the sleeplessness of his vow could he so tranquillize his
wooof; wof wf wof wooooooooooof wf wof wof wooof wf wf woooooooooof wof

unquiet heart as to postpone all intervening quest.
wooooof wooof wf wf woooooof wof wooooooooof wooof.




Now, the Pequod had sailed from Nantucket at the very beginning of the
Wof, wof Woooof wof woooof woof Wooooooof wf wof woof wooooooof wf wof

Season-on-the-Line. No possible endeavor then could enable her commander
Woooof-wf-wof-Woof. Wf woooooof woooooof woof wooof woooof wof wooooooof

to make the great passage southwards, double Cape Horn, and then running
wf woof wof wooof wooooof woooooooof, woooof Woof Woof, wof woof wooooof

down sixty degrees of latitude arrive in the equatorial Pacific in time
woof wooof wooooof wf woooooof woooof wf wof woooooooof Wooooof wf woof

to cruise there. Therefore, he must wait for the next ensuing season.
wf woooof wooof. Wooooooof, wf woof woof wof wof woof wooooof woooof.

Yet the premature hour of the Pequod's sailing had, perhaps, been
Wof wof wooooooof woof wf wof Woooof'w wooooof wof, wooooof, woof

correctly selected by Ahab, with a view to this very complexion of
wooooooof woooooof wf Woof, woof w woof wf woof woof woooooooof wf

things. Because, an interval of three hundred and sixty-five days
woooof. Wooooof, wf woooooof wf wooof wooooof wof wooof-woof woof

and nights was before him; an interval which, instead of impatiently
wof woooof wof woooof wof; wf woooooof wooof, wooooof wf wooooooooof

enduring ashore, he would spend in a miscellaneous hunt; if by chance
woooooof woooof, wf wooof wooof wf w wooooooooooof woof; wf wf woooof

the White Whale, spending his vacation in seas far remote from his
wof Wooof Wooof, woooooof wof woooooof wf woof wof woooof woof wof

periodical feeding-grounds, should turn up his wrinkled brow off the
woooooooof wooooof-wooooof, woooof woof wf wof woooooof woof wof wof

Persian Gulf, or in the Bengal Bay, or China Seas, or in any other
Wooooof Woof, wf wf wof Woooof Wof, wf Wooof Woof, wf wf wof wooof

waters haunted by his race. So that Monsoons, Pampas, Nor'-Westers,
woooof wooooof wf wof woof. Wf woof Woooooof, Woooof, Wof'-Wooooof,

Harmattans, Trades; any wind but the Levanter and Simoon, might
Woooooooof, Woooof; wof woof wof wof Woooooof wof Woooof, wooof

blow Moby Dick into the devious zig-zag world-circle of the Pequod's
woof Woof Woof woof wof wooooof wof-wof wooof-woooof wf wof Woooof'w

circumnavigating wake.
woooooooooooooof woof.




But granting all this; yet, regarded discreetly and coolly, seems it not
Wof woooooof wof woof; wof, woooooof woooooooof wof woooof, wooof wf wof

but a mad idea, this; that in the broad boundless ocean, one solitary
wof w wof woof, woof; woof wf wof wooof wooooooof wooof, wof woooooof

whale, even if encountered, should be thought capable of individual
wooof, woof wf wooooooooof, woooof wf wooooof wooooof wf woooooooof

recognition from his hunter, even as a white-bearded Mufti in the
wooooooooof woof wof woooof, woof wf w wooof-wooooof Wooof wf wof

thronged thoroughfares of Constantinople? Yes. For the peculiar
woooooof wooooooooooof wf Woooooooooooof? Wof. Wof wof woooooof

snow-white brow of Moby Dick, and his snow-white hump, could not but
woof-wooof woof wf Woof Woof, wof wof woof-wooof woof, wooof wof wof

be unmistakable. And have I not tallied the whale, Ahab would mutter
wf woooooooooof. Wof woof W wof wooooof wof wooof, Woof wooof woooof

to himself, as after poring over his charts till long after midnight he
wf wooooof, wf wooof woooof woof wof woooof woof woof wooof woooooof wf

would throw himself back in reveries--tallied him, and shall he escape?
wooof wooof wooooof woof wf woooooof--wooooof wof, wof wooof wf woooof?

His broad fins are bored, and scalloped out like a lost sheep's ear! And
Wof wooof woof wof wooof, wof wooooooof wof woof w woof wooof'w wof! Wof

here, his mad mind would run on in a breathless race; till a weariness
woof, wof wof woof wooof wof wf wf w woooooooof woof; woof w wooooooof

and faintness of pondering came over him; and in the open air of the
wof wooooooof wf wooooooof woof woof wof; wof wf wof woof wof wf wof

deck he would seek to recover his strength. Ah, God! what trances
woof wf wooof woof wf wooooof wof woooooof. Wf, Wof! woof wooooof

of torments does that man endure who is consumed with one unachieved
wf woooooof woof woof wof woooof wof wf woooooof woof wof woooooooof

revengeful desire. He sleeps with clenched hands; and wakes with his own
woooooooof woooof. Wf woooof woof woooooof wooof; wof wooof woof wof wof

bloody nails in his palms.
woooof wooof wf wof wooof.




Often, when forced from his hammock by exhausting and intolerably vivid
Wooof, woof woooof woof wof wooooof wf woooooooof wof wooooooooof wooof

dreams of the night, which, resuming his own intense thoughts through
woooof wf wof wooof, wooof, woooooof wof wof wooooof woooooof wooooof

the day, carried them on amid a clashing of phrensies, and whirled them
wof wof, wooooof woof wf woof w woooooof wf wooooooof, wof wooooof woof

round and round and round in his blazing brain, till the very throbbing
wooof wof wooof wof wooof wf wof wooooof wooof, woof wof woof wooooooof

of his life-spot became insufferable anguish; and when, as was sometimes
wf wof woof-woof woooof woooooooooof wooooof; wof woof, wf wof wooooooof

the case, these spiritual throes in him heaved his being up from its
wof woof, wooof wooooooof woooof wf wof woooof wof wooof wf woof wof

base, and a chasm seemed opening in him, from which forked flames and
woof, wof w wooof woooof wooooof wf wof, woof wooof woooof woooof wof

lightnings shot up, and accursed fiends beckoned him to leap down among
woooooooof woof wf, wof woooooof woooof woooooof wof wf woof woof wooof

them; when this hell in himself yawned beneath him, a wild cry would be
woof; woof woof woof wf wooooof woooof wooooof wof, w woof wof wooof wf

heard through the ship; and with glaring eyes Ahab would burst from his
wooof wooooof wof woof; wof woof wooooof woof Woof wooof wooof woof wof

state room, as though escaping from a bed that was on fire. Yet these,
wooof woof, wf woooof woooooof woof w wof woof wof wf woof. Wof wooof,

perhaps, instead of being the unsuppressable symptoms of some latent
wooooof, wooooof wf wooof wof woooooooooooof woooooof wf woof woooof

weakness, or fright at his own resolve, were but the plainest tokens
woooooof, wf woooof wf wof wof wooooof, woof wof wof woooooof woooof

of its intensity. For, at such times, crazy Ahab, the scheming,
wf wof wooooooof. Wof, wf woof wooof, wooof Woof, wof woooooof,

unappeasedly steadfast hunter of the white whale; this Ahab that had
woooooooooof wooooooof woooof wf wof wooof wooof; woof Woof woof wof

gone to his hammock, was not the agent that so caused him to burst from
woof wf wof wooooof, wof wof wof wooof woof wf woooof wof wf wooof woof

it in horror again. The latter was the eternal, living principle or
wf wf woooof wooof. Wof woooof wof wof wooooof, woooof wooooooof wf

soul in him; and in sleep, being for the time dissociated from the
woof wf wof; wof wf wooof, wooof wof wof woof wooooooooof woof wof

characterizing mind, which at other times employed it for its outer
woooooooooooof woof, wooof wf wooof wooof woooooof wf wof wof wooof

vehicle or agent, it spontaneously sought escape from the scorching
wooooof wf wooof, wf wooooooooooof woooof woooof woof wof wooooooof

contiguity of the frantic thing, of which, for the time, it was no
woooooooof wf wof wooooof wooof, wf wooof, wof wof woof, wf wof wf

longer an integral. But as the mind does not exist unless leagued with
woooof wf woooooof. Wof wf wof woof woof wof wooof woooof wooooof woof

the soul, therefore it must have been that, in Ahab's case, yielding up
wof woof, wooooooof wf woof woof woof woof, wf Woof'w woof, woooooof wf

all his thoughts and fancies to his one supreme purpose; that purpose,
wof wof woooooof wof wooooof wf wof wof wooooof wooooof; woof wooooof,

by its own sheer inveteracy of will, forced itself against gods and
wf wof wof wooof woooooooof wf woof, woooof woooof wooooof woof wof

devils into a kind of self-assumed, independent being of its own. Nay,
woooof woof w woof wf woof-wooooof, wooooooooof wooof wf wof wof. Wof,

could grimly live and burn, while the common vitality to which it was
wooof woooof woof wof woof, wooof wof woooof woooooof wf wooof wf wof

conjoined, fled horror-stricken from the unbidden and unfathered birth.
wooooooof, woof woooof-woooooof woof wof woooooof wof woooooooof wooof.

Therefore, the tormented spirit that glared out of bodily eyes, when
Wooooooof, wof wooooooof woooof woof woooof wof wf woooof woof, woof

what seemed Ahab rushed from his room, was for the time but a vacated
woof woooof Woof woooof woof wof woof, wof wof wof woof wof w wooooof

thing, a formless somnambulistic being, a ray of living light, to be
wooof, w woooooof woooooooooooof wooof, w wof wf woooof wooof, wf wf

sure, but without an object to colour, and therefore a blankness in
woof, wof wooooof wf woooof wf woooof, wof wooooooof w wooooooof wf

itself. God help thee, old man, thy thoughts have created a creature
woooof. Wof woof woof, wof wof, wof woooooof woof wooooof w woooooof

in thee; and he whose intense thinking thus makes him a Prometheus; a
wf woof; wof wf wooof wooooof woooooof woof wooof wof w Woooooooof; w

vulture feeds upon that heart for ever; that vulture the very creature
wooooof wooof woof woof wooof wof woof; woof wooooof wof woof woooooof

he creates.
wf wooooof.










CHAPTER 45. The Affidavit.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Wooooooof.







So far as what there may be of a narrative in this book; and, indeed, as
Wf wof wf woof wooof wof wf wf w wooooooof wf woof woof; wof, woooof, wf

indirectly touching one or two very interesting and curious particulars
woooooooof woooooof wof wf wof woof wooooooooof wof wooooof wooooooooof

in the habits of sperm whales, the foregoing chapter, in its earlier
wf wof woooof wf wooof woooof, wof wooooooof wooooof, wf wof wooooof

part, is as important a one as will be found in this volume; but the
woof, wf wf wooooooof w wof wf woof wf wooof wf woof woooof; wof wof

leading matter of it requires to be still further and more familiarly
wooooof woooof wf wf woooooof wf wf wooof wooooof wof woof woooooooof

enlarged upon, in order to be adequately understood, and moreover to
woooooof woof, wf wooof wf wf woooooooof woooooooof, wof woooooof wf

take away any incredulity which a profound ignorance of the entire
woof woof wof wooooooooof wooof w woooooof wooooooof wf wof woooof

subject may induce in some minds, as to the natural verity of the main
wooooof wof woooof wf woof wooof, wf wf wof wooooof woooof wf wof woof

points of this affair.
woooof wf woof woooof.




I care not to perform this part of my task methodically; but shall
W woof wof wf wooooof woof woof wf wf woof woooooooooof; wof wooof

be content to produce the desired impression by separate citations of
wf wooooof wf wooooof wof wooooof woooooooof wf woooooof wooooooof wf

items, practically or reliably known to me as a whaleman; and from these
wooof, wooooooooof wf woooooof wooof wf wf wf w woooooof; wof woof wooof

citations, I take it--the conclusion aimed at will naturally follow of
wooooooof, W woof wf--wof woooooooof wooof wf woof wooooooof woooof wf

itself.
woooof.




First: I have personally known three instances where a whale, after
Wooof: W woof woooooooof wooof wooof wooooooof wooof w wooof, wooof

receiving a harpoon, has effected a complete escape; and, after an
wooooooof w wooooof, wof woooooof w woooooof woooof; wof, wooof wf

interval (in one instance of three years), has been again struck by
woooooof (wf wof woooooof wf wooof wooof), wof woof wooof woooof wf

the same hand, and slain; when the two irons, both marked by the same
wof woof woof, wof wooof; woof wof wof wooof, woof woooof wf wof woof

private cypher, have been taken from the body. In the instance where
wooooof woooof, woof woof wooof woof wof woof. Wf wof woooooof wooof

three years intervened between the flinging of the two harpoons; and I
wooof wooof woooooooof wooooof wof woooooof wf wof wof woooooof; wof W

think it may have been something more than that; the man who darted
wooof wf wof woof woof wooooooof woof woof woof; wof wof wof woooof

them happening, in the interval, to go in a trading ship on a voyage to
woof wooooooof, wf wof woooooof, wf wf wf w wooooof woof wf w woooof wf

Africa, went ashore there, joined a discovery party, and penetrated far
Woooof, woof woooof wooof, woooof w wooooooof wooof, wof woooooooof wof

into the interior, where he travelled for a period of nearly two years,
woof wof woooooof, wooof wf wooooooof wof w woooof wf woooof wof wooof,

often endangered by serpents, savages, tigers, poisonous miasmas,
wooof woooooooof wf woooooof, wooooof, woooof, wooooooof wooooof,

with all the other common perils incident to wandering in the heart of
woof wof wof wooof woooof woooof woooooof wf wooooooof wf wof wooof wf

unknown regions. Meanwhile, the whale he had struck must also have
wooooof wooooof. Wooooooof, wof wooof wf wof woooof woof woof woof

been on its travels; no doubt it had thrice circumnavigated the globe,
woof wf wof wooooof; wf wooof wf wof woooof wooooooooooooof wof wooof,

brushing with its flanks all the coasts of Africa; but to no purpose.
woooooof woof wof woooof wof wof woooof wf Woooof; wof wf wf wooooof.

This man and this whale again came together, and the one vanquished the
Woof wof wof woof wooof wooof woof woooooof, wof wof wof woooooooof wof

other. I say I, myself, have known three instances similar to this; that
wooof. W wof W, woooof, woof wooof wooof wooooooof wooooof wf woof; woof

is in two of them I saw the whales struck; and, upon the second attack,
wf wf wof wf woof W wof wof woooof woooof; wof, woof wof woooof woooof,

saw the two irons with the respective marks cut in them, afterwards
wof wof wof wooof woof wof woooooooof wooof wof wf woof, woooooooof

taken from the dead fish. In the three-year instance, it so fell out
wooof woof wof woof woof. Wf wof wooof-woof woooooof, wf wf woof wof

that I was in the boat both times, first and last, and the last time
woof W wof wf wof woof woof wooof, wooof wof woof, wof wof woof woof

distinctly recognised a peculiar sort of huge mole under the whale's
woooooooof woooooooof w woooooof woof wf woof woof wooof wof wooof'w

eye, which I had observed there three years previous. I say three years,
wof, wooof W wof woooooof wooof wooof wooof woooooof. W wof wooof wooof,

but I am pretty sure it was more than that. Here are three instances,
wof W wf woooof woof wf wof woof woof woof. Woof wof wooof wooooooof,

then, which I personally know the truth of; but I have heard of many
woof, wooof W woooooooof woof wof wooof wf; wof W woof wooof wf woof

other instances from persons whose veracity in the matter there is no
wooof wooooooof woof wooooof wooof woooooof wf wof woooof wooof wf wf

good ground to impeach.
woof woooof wf wooooof.




Secondly: It is well known in the Sperm Whale Fishery, however ignorant
Woooooof: Wf wf woof wooof wf wof Wooof Wooof Wooooof, wooooof woooooof

the world ashore may be of it, that there have been several memorable
wof wooof woooof wof wf wf wf, woof wooof woof woof wooooof wooooooof

historical instances where a particular whale in the ocean has been at
woooooooof wooooooof wooof w woooooooof wooof wf wof wooof wof woof wf

distant times and places popularly cognisable. Why such a whale became
wooooof wooof wof woooof wooooooof woooooooof. Wof woof w wooof woooof

thus marked was not altogether and originally owing to his bodily
woof woooof wof wof woooooooof wof woooooooof wooof wf wof woooof

peculiarities as distinguished from other whales; for however peculiar
wooooooooooof wf wooooooooooof woof wooof woooof; wof wooooof woooooof

in that respect any chance whale may be, they soon put an end to his
wf woof wooooof wof woooof wooof wof wf, woof woof wof wf wof wf wof

peculiarities by killing him, and boiling him down into a peculiarly
wooooooooooof wf wooooof wof, wof wooooof wof woof woof w woooooooof

valuable oil. No: the reason was this: that from the fatal experiences
woooooof wof. Wf: wof woooof wof woof: woof woof wof wooof wooooooooof

of the fishery there hung a terrible prestige of perilousness about
wf wof wooooof wooof woof w woooooof woooooof wf woooooooooof wooof

such a whale as there did about Rinaldo Rinaldini, insomuch that
woof w wooof wf wooof wof wooof Wooooof Wooooooof, woooooof woof

most fishermen were content to recognise him by merely touching their
woof wooooooof woof wooooof wf wooooooof wof wf woooof woooooof wooof

tarpaulins when he would be discovered lounging by them on the sea,
woooooooof woof wf wooof wf woooooooof woooooof wf woof wf wof wof,

without seeking to cultivate a more intimate acquaintance. Like some
wooooof wooooof wf wooooooof w woof woooooof woooooooooof. Woof woof

poor devils ashore that happen to know an irascible great man, they
woof woooof woooof woof woooof wf woof wf wooooooof wooof wof, woof

make distant unobtrusive salutations to him in the street, lest if they
woof wooooof wooooooooof wooooooooof wf wof wf wof woooof, woof wf woof

pursued the acquaintance further, they might receive a summary thump for
wooooof wof woooooooooof wooooof, woof wooof wooooof w wooooof wooof wof

their presumption.
wooof wooooooooof.




But not only did each of these famous whales enjoy great individual
Wof wof woof wof woof wf wooof woooof woooof wooof wooof woooooooof

celebrity--Nay, you may call it an ocean-wide renown; not only was he
wooooooof--Wof, wof wof woof wf wf wooof-woof woooof; wof woof wof wf

famous in life and now is immortal in forecastle stories after death,
woooof wf woof wof wof wf woooooof wf woooooooof wooooof wooof wooof,

but he was admitted into all the rights, privileges, and distinctions of
wof wf wof woooooof woof wof wof woooof, woooooooof, wof woooooooooof wf

a name; had as much a name indeed as Cambyses or Caesar. Was it not so,
w woof; wof wf woof w woof woooof wf Woooooof wf Woooof. Wof wf wof wf,

O Timor Tom! thou famed leviathan, scarred like an iceberg, who so long
W Wooof Wof! woof wooof wooooooof, wooooof woof wf wooooof, wof wf woof

did'st lurk in the Oriental straits of that name, whose spout was oft
wof'wf woof wf wof Woooooof wooooof wf woof woof, wooof wooof wof wof

seen from the palmy beach of Ombay? Was it not so, O New Zealand Jack!
woof woof wof wooof wooof wf Wooof? Wof wf wof wf, W Wof Wooooof Woof!

thou terror of all cruisers that crossed their wakes in the vicinity of
woof woooof wf wof woooooof woof wooooof wooof wooof wf wof woooooof wf

the Tattoo Land? Was it not so, O Morquan! King of Japan, whose lofty
wof Woooof Woof? Wof wf wof wf, W Wooooof! Woof wf Wooof, wooof wooof

jet they say at times assumed the semblance of a snow-white cross
wof woof wof wf wooof wooooof wof wooooooof wf w woof-wooof wooof

against the sky? Was it not so, O Don Miguel! thou Chilian whale, marked
wooooof wof wof? Wof wf wof wf, W Wof Woooof! woof Wooooof wooof, woooof

like an old tortoise with mystic hieroglyphics upon the back! In plain
woof wf wof woooooof woof woooof wooooooooooof woof wof woof! Wf wooof

prose, here are four whales as well known to the students of Cetacean
wooof, woof wof woof woooof wf woof wooof wf wof woooooof wf Woooooof

History as Marius or Sylla to the classic scholar.
Wooooof wf Woooof wf Wooof wf wof wooooof wooooof.




But this is not all. New Zealand Tom and Don Miguel, after at various
Wof woof wf wof wof. Wof Wooooof Wof wof Wof Woooof, wooof wf wooooof

times creating great havoc among the boats of different vessels, were
wooof woooooof wooof wooof wooof wof wooof wf wooooooof wooooof, woof

finally gone in quest of, systematically hunted out, chased and killed
wooooof woof wf wooof wf, woooooooooooof woooof wof, woooof wof woooof

by valiant whaling captains, who heaved up their anchors with
wf wooooof wooooof woooooof, wof woooof wf wooof wooooof woof

that express object as much in view, as in setting out through the
woof wooooof woooof wf woof wf woof, wf wf wooooof wof wooooof wof

Narragansett Woods, Captain Butler of old had it in his mind to capture
Woooooooooof Wooof, Wooooof Woooof wf wof wof wf wf wof woof wf wooooof

that notorious murderous savage Annawon, the headmost warrior of the
woof wooooooof wooooooof woooof Wooooof, wof woooooof wooooof wf wof

Indian King Philip.
Woooof Woof Woooof.




I do not know where I can find a better place than just here, to make
W wf wof woof wooof W wof woof w woooof wooof woof woof woof, wf woof

mention of one or two other things, which to me seem important, as in
wooooof wf wof wf wof wooof woooof, wooof wf wf woof wooooooof, wf wf

printed form establishing in all respects the reasonableness of the
wooooof woof woooooooooof wf wof woooooof wof woooooooooooof wf wof

whole story of the White Whale, more especially the catastrophe. For
wooof wooof wf wof Wooof Wooof, woof woooooooof wof wooooooooof. Wof

this is one of those disheartening instances where truth requires full
woof wf wof wf wooof wooooooooooof wooooooof wooof wooof woooooof woof

as much bolstering as error. So ignorant are most landsmen of some of
wf woof woooooooof wf wooof. Wf woooooof wof woof woooooof wf woof wf

the plainest and most palpable wonders of the world, that without
wof woooooof wof woof woooooof wooooof wf wof wooof, woof wooooof

some hints touching the plain facts, historical and otherwise, of the
woof wooof woooooof wof wooof wooof, woooooooof wof wooooooof, wf wof

fishery, they might scout at Moby Dick as a monstrous fable, or still
wooooof, woof wooof wooof wf Woof Woof wf w wooooooof wooof, wf wooof

worse and more detestable, a hideous and intolerable allegory.
wooof wof woof woooooooof, w wooooof wof wooooooooof woooooof.




First: Though most men have some vague flitting ideas of the general
Wooof: Woooof woof wof woof woof wooof woooooof wooof wf wof wooooof

perils of the grand fishery, yet they have nothing like a fixed, vivid
woooof wf wof wooof wooooof, wof woof woof wooooof woof w wooof, wooof

conception of those perils, and the frequency with which they recur.
woooooooof wf wooof woooof, wof wof wooooooof woof wooof woof wooof.

One reason perhaps is, that not one in fifty of the actual disasters and
Wof woooof wooooof wf, woof wof wof wf wooof wf wof woooof wooooooof wof

deaths by casualties in the fishery, ever finds a public record at home,
woooof wf woooooooof wf wof wooooof, woof wooof w woooof woooof wf woof,

however transient and immediately forgotten that record. Do you suppose
wooooof wooooooof wof wooooooooof wooooooof woof woooof. Wf wof wooooof

that that poor fellow there, who this moment perhaps caught by the
woof woof woof woooof wooof, wof woof woooof wooooof woooof wf wof

whale-line off the coast of New Guinea, is being carried down to the
wooof-woof wof wof wooof wf Wof Woooof, wf wooof wooooof woof wf wof

bottom of the sea by the sounding leviathan--do you suppose that that
woooof wf wof wof wf wof woooooof wooooooof--wf wof wooooof woof woof

poor fellow's name will appear in the newspaper obituary you will read
woof woooof'w woof woof woooof wf wof wooooooof woooooof wof woof woof

to-morrow at your breakfast? No: because the mails are very irregular
wf-woooof wf woof wooooooof? Wf: wooooof wof wooof wof woof wooooooof

between here and New Guinea. In fact, did you ever hear what might be
wooooof woof wof Wof Woooof. Wf woof, wof wof woof woof woof wooof wf

called regular news direct or indirect from New Guinea? Yet I tell you
woooof wooooof woof woooof wf woooooof woof Wof Woooof? Wof W woof wof

that upon one particular voyage which I made to the Pacific, among many
woof woof wof woooooooof woooof wooof W woof wf wof Wooooof, wooof woof

others we spoke thirty different ships, every one of which had had a
woooof wf wooof woooof wooooooof wooof, wooof wof wf wooof wof wof w

death by a whale, some of them more than one, and three that had each
wooof wf w wooof, woof wf woof woof woof wof, wof wooof woof wof woof

lost a boat's crew. For God's sake, be economical with your lamps and
woof w woof'w woof. Wof Wof'w woof, wf woooooooof woof woof wooof wof

candles! not a gallon you burn, but at least one drop of man's blood was
wooooof! wof w woooof wof woof, wof wf wooof wof woof wf wof'w wooof wof

spilled for it.
wooooof wof wf.




Secondly: People ashore have indeed some indefinite idea that a whale is
Woooooof: Woooof woooof woof woooof woof woooooooof woof woof w wooof wf

an enormous creature of enormous power; but I have ever found that when
wf woooooof woooooof wf woooooof wooof; wof W woof woof wooof woof woof

narrating to them some specific example of this two-fold enormousness,
wooooooof wf woof woof woooooof wooooof wf woof wof-woof woooooooooof,

they have significantly complimented me upon my facetiousness; when, I
woof woof wooooooooooof woooooooooof wf woof wf wooooooooooof; woof, W

declare upon my soul, I had no more idea of being facetious than Moses,
wooooof woof wf woof, W wof wf woof woof wf wooof wooooooof woof Wooof,

when he wrote the history of the plagues of Egypt.
woof wf wooof wof wooooof wf wof wooooof wf Wooof.




But fortunately the special point I here seek can be established upon
Wof wooooooooof wof wooooof wooof W woof woof wof wf wooooooooof woof

testimony entirely independent of my own. That point is this: The Sperm
wooooooof woooooof wooooooooof wf wf wof. Woof wooof wf woof: Wof Wooof

Whale is in some cases sufficiently powerful, knowing, and judiciously
Wooof wf wf woof wooof woooooooooof woooooof, wooooof, wof wooooooooof

malicious, as with direct aforethought to stave in, utterly destroy, and
wooooooof, wf woof woooof woooooooooof wf wooof wf, wooooof wooooof, wof

sink a large ship; and what is more, the Sperm Whale HAS done it.
woof w wooof woof; wof woof wf woof, wof Wooof Wooof WOF woof wf.




First: In the year 1820 the ship Essex, Captain Pollard, of Nantucket,
Wooof: Wf wof woof woof wof woof Wooof, Wooooof Wooooof, wf Wooooooof,

was cruising in the Pacific Ocean. One day she saw spouts, lowered her
wof woooooof wf wof Wooooof Wooof. Wof wof wof wof woooof, wooooof wof

boats, and gave chase to a shoal of sperm whales. Ere long, several of
wooof, wof woof wooof wf w wooof wf wooof woooof. Wof woof, wooooof wf

the whales were wounded; when, suddenly, a very large whale escaping
wof woooof woof wooooof; woof, woooooof, w woof wooof wooof woooooof

from the boats, issued from the shoal, and bore directly down upon the
woof wof wooof, woooof woof wof wooof, wof woof woooooof woof woof wof

ship. Dashing his forehead against her hull, he so stove her in, that in
woof. Wooooof wof woooooof wooooof wof woof, wf wf wooof wof wf, woof wf

less than "ten minutes" she settled down and fell over. Not a surviving
woof woof "wof wooooof" wof wooooof woof wof woof woof. Wof w wooooooof

plank of her has been seen since. After the severest exposure, part of
wooof wf wof wof woof woof wooof. Wooof wof woooooof woooooof, woof wf

the crew reached the land in their boats. Being returned home at last,
wof woof wooooof wof woof wf wooof wooof. Wooof woooooof woof wf woof,

Captain Pollard once more sailed for the Pacific in command of another
Wooooof Wooooof woof woof woooof wof wof Wooooof wf wooooof wf wooooof

ship, but the gods shipwrecked him again upon unknown rocks and
woof, wof wof woof wooooooooof wof wooof woof wooooof wooof wof

breakers; for the second time his ship was utterly lost, and forthwith
woooooof; wof wof woooof woof wof woof wof wooooof woof, wof wooooooof

forswearing the sea, he has never tempted it since. At this day Captain
wooooooooof wof wof, wf wof wooof wooooof wf wooof. Wf woof wof Wooooof

Pollard is a resident of Nantucket. I have seen Owen Chace, who was
Wooooof wf w woooooof wf Wooooooof. W woof woof Woof Wooof, wof wof

chief mate of the Essex at the time of the tragedy; I have read his
wooof woof wf wof Wooof wf wof woof wf wof wooooof; W woof woof wof

plain and faithful narrative; I have conversed with his son; and all
wooof wof woooooof wooooooof; W woof wooooooof woof wof wof; wof wof

this within a few miles of the scene of the catastrophe.*
woof woooof w wof wooof wf wof wooof wf wof wooooooooof.*







*The following are extracts from Chace's narrative: "Every fact seemed
*Wof wooooooof wof woooooof woof Wooof'w wooooooof: "Wooof woof woooof

to warrant me in concluding that it was anything but chance which
wf wooooof wf wf woooooooof woof wf wof woooooof wof woooof wooof

directed his operations; he made two several attacks upon the ship, at
woooooof wof woooooooof; wf woof wof wooooof wooooof woof wof woof, wf

a short interval between them, both of which, according to their
w wooof woooooof wooooof woof, woof wf wooof, wooooooof wf wooof

direction, were calculated to do us the most injury, by being made
wooooooof, woof woooooooof wf wf wf wof woof woooof, wf wooof woof

ahead, and thereby combining the speed of the two objects for the shock;
wooof, wof wooooof wooooooof wof wooof wf wof wof wooooof wof wof wooof;

to effect which, the exact manoeuvres which he made were necessary. His
wf woooof wooof, wof wooof woooooooof wooof wf woof woof wooooooof. Wof

aspect was most horrible, and such as indicated resentment and fury. He
woooof wof woof woooooof, wof woof wf wooooooof woooooooof wof woof. Wf

came directly from the shoal which we had just before entered, and in
woof woooooof woof wof wooof wooof wf wof woof woooof wooooof, wof wf

which we had struck three of his companions, as if fired with revenge
wooof wf wof woooof wooof wf wof woooooooof, wf wf wooof woof wooooof

for their sufferings." Again: "At all events, the whole circumstances
wof wooof woooooooof." Wooof: "Wf wof woooof, wof wooof wooooooooooof

taken together, all happening before my own eyes, and producing, at the
wooof woooooof, wof wooooooof woooof wf wof woof, wof wooooooof, wf wof

time, impressions in my mind of decided, calculating mischief, on the
woof, wooooooooof wf wf woof wf wooooof, wooooooooof woooooof, wf wof

part of the whale (many of which impressions I cannot now recall),
woof wf wof wooof (woof wf wooof wooooooooof W woooof wof woooof),

induce me to be satisfied that I am correct in my opinion."
woooof wf wf wf wooooooof woof W wf wooooof wf wf wooooof."




Here are his reflections some time after quitting the ship, during
Woof wof wof wooooooooof woof woof wooof woooooof wof woof, woooof

a black night in an open boat, when almost despairing of reaching any
w wooof wooof wf wf woof woof, woof woooof woooooooof wf woooooof wof

hospitable shore. "The dark ocean and swelling waters were nothing; the
woooooooof wooof. "Wof woof wooof wof woooooof woooof woof wooooof; wof

fears of being swallowed up by some dreadful tempest, or dashed
wooof wf wooof wooooooof wf wf woof woooooof wooooof, wf woooof

upon hidden rocks, with all the other ordinary subjects of fearful
woof woooof wooof, woof wof wof wooof woooooof woooooof wf wooooof

contemplation, seemed scarcely entitled to a moment's thought; the
wooooooooooof, woooof woooooof woooooof wf w woooof'w wooooof; wof

dismal looking wreck, and THE HORRID ASPECT AND REVENGE OF THE WHALE,
woooof wooooof wooof, wof WOF WOOOOF WOOOOF WOF WOOOOOF WF WOF WOOOF,

wholly engrossed my reflections, until day again made its appearance."
woooof wooooooof wf wooooooooof, wooof wof wooof woof wof woooooooof."




In another place--p. 45,--he speaks of "THE MYSTERIOUS AND MORTAL ATTACK
Wf wooooof wooof--w. wf,--wf woooof wf "WOF WOOOOOOOOF WOF WOOOOF WOOOOF

OF THE ANIMAL."
WF WOF WOOOOF."







Secondly: The ship Union, also of Nantucket, was in the year 1807
Woooooof: Wof woof Wooof, woof wf Wooooooof, wof wf wof woof woof

totally lost off the Azores by a similar onset, but the authentic
wooooof woof wof wof Woooof wf w wooooof wooof, wof wof wooooooof

particulars of this catastrophe I have never chanced to encounter,
wooooooooof wf woof wooooooooof W woof wooof wooooof wf wooooooof,

though from the whale hunters I have now and then heard casual allusions
woooof woof wof wooof wooooof W woof wof wof woof wooof woooof wooooooof

to it.
wf wf.




Thirdly: Some eighteen or twenty years ago Commodore J---, then
Wooooof: Woof woooooof wf woooof wooof wof Wooooooof W---, woof

commanding an American sloop-of-war of the first class, happened to be
woooooooof wf Woooooof wooof-wf-wof wf wof wooof wooof, woooooof wf wf

dining with a party of whaling captains, on board a Nantucket ship in
woooof woof w wooof wf wooooof woooooof, wf wooof w Wooooooof woof wf

the harbor of Oahu, Sandwich Islands. Conversation turning upon whales,
wof woooof wf Woof, Woooooof Wooooof. Woooooooooof wooooof woof woooof,

the Commodore was pleased to be sceptical touching the amazing strength
wof Wooooooof wof wooooof wf wf wooooooof woooooof wof wooooof woooooof

ascribed to them by the professional gentlemen present. He peremptorily
woooooof wf woof wf wof woooooooooof wooooooof wooooof. Wf woooooooooof

denied for example, that any whale could so smite his stout sloop-of-war
woooof wof wooooof, woof wof wooof wooof wf wooof wof wooof wooof-wf-wof

as to cause her to leak so much as a thimbleful. Very good; but there
wf wf wooof wof wf woof wf woof wf w woooooooof. Woof woof; wof wooof

is more coming. Some weeks after, the Commodore set sail in this
wf woof woooof. Woof wooof wooof, wof Wooooooof wof woof wf woof

impregnable craft for Valparaiso. But he was stopped on the way by a
wooooooooof wooof wof Woooooooof. Wof wf wof wooooof wf wof wof wf w

portly sperm whale, that begged a few moments' confidential business
woooof wooof wooof, woof woooof w wof wooooof' woooooooooof woooooof

with him. That business consisted in fetching the Commodore's craft such
woof wof. Woof woooooof wooooooof wf woooooof wof Wooooooof'w wooof woof

a thwack, that with all his pumps going he made straight for the nearest
w woooof, woof woof wof wof wooof wooof wf woof woooooof wof wof wooooof

port to heave down and repair. I am not superstitious, but I consider
woof wf wooof woof wof woooof. W wf wof wooooooooooof, wof W woooooof

the Commodore's interview with that whale as providential. Was not Saul
wof Wooooooof'w wooooooof woof woof wooof wf woooooooooof. Wof wof Woof

of Tarsus converted from unbelief by a similar fright? I tell you, the
wf Woooof wooooooof woof woooooof wf w wooooof woooof? W woof wof, wof

sperm whale will stand no nonsense.
wooof wooof woof wooof wf woooooof.




I will now refer you to Langsdorff's Voyages for a little circumstance
W woof wof wooof wof wf Woooooooof'w Wooooof wof w woooof woooooooooof

in point, peculiarly interesting to the writer hereof. Langsdorff, you
wf wooof, woooooooof wooooooooof wf wof woooof woooof. Woooooooof, wof

must know by the way, was attached to the Russian Admiral Krusenstern's
woof woof wf wof wof, wof woooooof wf wof Wooooof Wooooof Wooooooooof'w

famous Discovery Expedition in the beginning of the present century.
woooof Wooooooof Woooooooof wf wof wooooooof wf wof wooooof wooooof.

Captain Langsdorff thus begins his seventeenth chapter:
Wooooof Woooooooof woof woooof wof wooooooooof wooooof:




"By the thirteenth of May our ship was ready to sail, and the next day
"Wf wof woooooooof wf Wof wof woof wof wooof wf woof, wof wof woof wof

we were out in the open sea, on our way to Ochotsh. The weather was very
wf woof wof wf wof woof wof, wf wof wof wf Wooooof. Wof wooooof wof woof

clear and fine, but so intolerably cold that we were obliged to keep on
wooof wof woof, wof wf wooooooooof woof woof wf woof wooooof wf woof wf

our fur clothing. For some days we had very little wind; it was not
wof wof woooooof. Wof woof woof wf wof woof woooof woof; wf wof wof

till the nineteenth that a brisk gale from the northwest sprang up. An
woof wof woooooooof woof w wooof woof woof wof wooooooof woooof wf. Wf

uncommon large whale, the body of which was larger than the ship itself,
woooooof wooof wooof, wof woof wf wooof wof woooof woof wof woof woooof,

lay almost at the surface of the water, but was not perceived by any
wof woooof wf wof wooooof wf wof wooof, wof wof wof wooooooof wf wof

one on board till the moment when the ship, which was in full sail,
wof wf wooof woof wof woooof woof wof woof, wooof wof wf woof woof,

was almost upon him, so that it was impossible to prevent its striking
wof woooof woof wof, wf woof wf wof woooooooof wf wooooof wof woooooof

against him. We were thus placed in the most imminent danger, as this
wooooof wof. Wf woof woof woooof wf wof woof woooooof woooof, wf woof

gigantic creature, setting up its back, raised the ship three feet at
woooooof woooooof, wooooof wf wof woof, woooof wof woof wooof woof wf

least out of the water. The masts reeled, and the sails fell altogether,
wooof wof wf wof wooof. Wof wooof woooof, wof wof wooof woof woooooooof,

while we who were below all sprang instantly upon the deck, concluding
wooof wf wof woof wooof wof woooof wooooooof woof wof woof, woooooooof

that we had struck upon some rock; instead of this we saw the monster
woof wf wof woooof woof woof woof; wooooof wf woof wf wof wof wooooof

sailing off with the utmost gravity and solemnity. Captain D'Wolf
wooooof wof woof wof woooof wooooof wof wooooooof. Wooooof W'Woof

applied immediately to the pumps to examine whether or not the vessel
wooooof wooooooooof wf wof wooof wf wooooof wooooof wf wof wof woooof

had received any damage from the shock, but we found that very happily
wof woooooof wof woooof woof wof wooof, wof wf wooof woof woof wooooof

it had escaped entirely uninjured."
wf wof wooooof woooooof wooooooof."




Now, the Captain D'Wolf here alluded to as commanding the ship in
Wof, wof Wooooof W'Woof woof wooooof wf wf woooooooof wof woof wf

question, is a New Englander, who, after a long life of unusual
woooooof, wf w Wof Wooooooof, wof, wooof w woof woof wf wooooof

adventures as a sea-captain, this day resides in the village of
woooooooof wf w wof-wooooof, woof wof wooooof wf wof wooooof wf

Dorchester near Boston. I have the honour of being a nephew of his. I
Woooooooof woof Woooof. W woof wof woooof wf wooof w woooof wf wof. W

have particularly questioned him concerning this passage in Langsdorff.
woof woooooooooof woooooooof wof woooooooof woof wooooof wf Woooooooof.

He substantiates every word. The ship, however, was by no means a large
Wf wooooooooooof wooof woof. Wof woof, wooooof, wof wf wf wooof w wooof

one: a Russian craft built on the Siberian coast, and purchased by my
wof: w Wooooof wooof wooof wf wof Woooooof wooof, wof wooooooof wf wf

uncle after bartering away the vessel in which he sailed from home.
wooof wooof wooooooof woof wof woooof wf wooof wf woooof woof woof.




In that up and down manly book of old-fashioned adventure, so full, too,
Wf woof wf wof woof wooof woof wf wof-wooooooof wooooooof, wf woof, wof,

of honest wonders--the voyage of Lionel Wafer, one of ancient Dampier's
wf woooof wooooof--wof woooof wf Woooof Wooof, wof wf wooooof Wooooof'w

old chums--I found a little matter set down so like that just quoted
wof wooof--W wooof w woooof woooof wof woof wf woof woof woof woooof

from Langsdorff, that I cannot forbear inserting it here for a
woof Woooooooof, woof W woooof wooooof wooooooof wf woof wof w

corroborative example, if such be needed.
wooooooooooof wooooof, wf woof wf woooof.




Lionel, it seems, was on his way to "John Ferdinando," as he calls
Woooof, wf wooof, wof wf wof wof wf "Woof Woooooooof," wf wf wooof

the modern Juan Fernandes. "In our way thither," he says, "about four
wof woooof Woof Wooooooof. "Wf wof wof wooooof," wf woof, "wooof woof

o'clock in the morning, when we were about one hundred and fifty leagues
w'wooof wf wof wooooof, woof wf woof wooof wof wooooof wof wooof wooooof

from the Main of America, our ship felt a terrible shock, which put our
woof wof Woof wf Wooooof, wof woof woof w woooooof wooof, wooof wof wof

men in such consternation that they could hardly tell where they were
wof wf woof wooooooooooof woof woof wooof woooof woof wooof woof woof

or what to think; but every one began to prepare for death. And, indeed,
wf woof wf wooof; wof wooof wof wooof wf wooooof wof wooof. Wof, woooof,

the shock was so sudden and violent, that we took it for granted the
wof wooof wof wf woooof wof wooooof, woof wf woof wf wof wooooof wof

ship had struck against a rock; but when the amazement was a little
woof wof woooof wooooof w woof; wof woof wof wooooooof wof w woooof

over, we cast the lead, and sounded, but found no ground..... The
woof, wf woof wof woof, wof wooooof, wof wooof wf woooof..... Wof

suddenness of the shock made the guns leap in their carriages, and
woooooooof wf wof wooof woof wof woof woof wf wooof wooooooof, wof

several of the men were shaken out of their hammocks. Captain Davis, who
wooooof wf wof wof woof woooof wof wf wooof woooooof. Wooooof Wooof, wof

lay with his head on a gun, was thrown out of his cabin!" Lionel then
wof woof wof woof wf w wof, wof woooof wof wf wof wooof!" Woooof woof

goes on to impute the shock to an earthquake, and seems to substantiate
woof wf wf woooof wof wooof wf wf woooooooof, wof wooof wf woooooooooof

the imputation by stating that a great earthquake, somewhere about
wof woooooooof wf wooooof woof w wooof woooooooof, wooooooof wooof

that time, did actually do great mischief along the Spanish land. But
woof woof, wof woooooof wf wooof woooooof wooof wof Wooooof woof. Wof

I should not much wonder if, in the darkness of that early hour of the
W woooof wof woof woooof wf, wf wof woooooof wf woof wooof woof wf wof

morning, the shock was after all caused by an unseen whale vertically
wooooof, wof wooof wof wooof wof woooof wf wf woooof wooof woooooooof

bumping the hull from beneath.
wooooof wof woof woof wooooof.




I might proceed with several more examples, one way or another known to
W wooof wooooof woof wooooof woof woooooof, wof wof wf wooooof wooof wf

me, of the great power and malice at times of the sperm whale. In more
wf, wf wof wooof wooof wof woooof wf wooof wf wof wooof wooof. Wf woof

than one instance, he has been known, not only to chase the assailing
woof wof woooooof, wf wof woof wooof, wof woof wf wooof wof wooooooof

boats back to their ships, but to pursue the ship itself, and long
wooof woof wf wooof wooof, wof wf woooof wof woof woooof, wof woof

withstand all the lances hurled at him from its decks. The English ship
wooooooof wof wof woooof woooof wf wof woof wof wooof. Wof Wooooof woof

Pusie Hall can tell a story on that head; and, as for his strength,
Wooof Woof wof woof w wooof wf woof woof; wof, wf wof wof woooooof,

let me say, that there have been examples where the lines attached to a
wof wf wof, woof wooof woof woof woooooof wooof wof wooof woooooof wf w

running sperm whale have, in a calm, been transferred to the ship, and
wooooof wooof wooof woof, wf w woof, woof wooooooooof wf wof woof, wof

secured there; the whale towing her great hull through the water, as a
wooooof wooof; wof wooof woooof wof wooof woof wooooof wof wooof, wf w

horse walks off with a cart. Again, it is very often observed that, if
wooof wooof wof woof w woof. Wooof, wf wf woof wooof woooooof woof, wf

the sperm whale, once struck, is allowed time to rally, he then acts,
wof wooof wooof, woof woooof, wf wooooof woof wf wooof, wf woof woof,

not so often with blind rage, as with wilful, deliberate designs of
wof wf wooof woof wooof woof, wf woof woooof, woooooooof wooooof wf

destruction to his pursuers; nor is it without conveying some eloquent
wooooooooof wf wof woooooof; wof wf wf wooooof wooooooof woof woooooof

indication of his character, that upon being attacked he will frequently
woooooooof wf wof wooooooof, woof woof wooof woooooof wf woof woooooooof

open his mouth, and retain it in that dread expansion for several
woof wof wooof, wof woooof wf wf woof wooof wooooooof wof wooooof

consecutive minutes. But I must be content with only one more and a
wooooooooof wooooof. Wof W woof wf wooooof woof woof wof woof wof w

concluding illustration; a remarkable and most significant one, by which
woooooooof woooooooooof; w woooooooof wof woof wooooooooof wof, wf wooof

you will not fail to see, that not only is the most marvellous event in
wof woof wof woof wf wof, woof wof woof wf wof woof woooooooof wooof wf

this book corroborated by plain facts of the present day, but that these
woof woof woooooooooof wf wooof wooof wf wof wooooof wof, wof woof wooof

marvels (like all marvels) are mere repetitions of the ages; so that for
wooooof (woof wof wooooof) wof woof wooooooooof wf wof woof; wf woof wof

the millionth time we say amen with Solomon--Verily there is nothing new
wof wooooooof woof wf wof woof woof Wooooof--Woooof wooof wf wooooof wof

under the sun.
wooof wof wof.




In the sixth Christian century lived Procopius, a Christian magistrate
Wf wof wooof Wooooooof wooooof wooof Wooooooof, w Wooooooof woooooooof

of Constantinople, in the days when Justinian was Emperor and Belisarius
wf Woooooooooooof, wf wof woof woof Wooooooof wof Wooooof wof Woooooooof

general. As many know, he wrote the history of his own times, a work
wooooof. Wf woof woof, wf wooof wof wooooof wf wof wof wooof, w woof

every way of uncommon value. By the best authorities, he has always been
wooof wof wf woooooof wooof. Wf wof woof wooooooooof, wf wof woooof woof

considered a most trustworthy and unexaggerating historian, except in
woooooooof w woof wooooooooof wof woooooooooooof wooooooof, woooof wf

some one or two particulars, not at all affecting the matter presently
woof wof wf wof wooooooooof, wof wf wof wooooooof wof woooof wooooooof

to be mentioned.
wf wf wooooooof.




Now, in this history of his, Procopius mentions that, during the term
Wof, wf woof wooooof wf wof, Wooooooof woooooof woof, woooof wof woof

of his prefecture at Constantinople, a great sea-monster was captured
wf wof woooooooof wf Woooooooooooof, w wooof wof-wooooof wof woooooof

in the neighboring Propontis, or Sea of Marmora, after having destroyed
wf wof wooooooooof Wooooooof, wf Wof wf Wooooof, wooof woooof wooooooof

vessels at intervals in those waters for a period of more than fifty
wooooof wf wooooooof wf wooof woooof wof w woooof wf woof woof wooof

years. A fact thus set down in substantial history cannot easily be
wooof. W woof woof wof woof wf wooooooooof wooooof woooof woooof wf

gainsaid. Nor is there any reason it should be. Of what precise species
woooooof. Wof wf wooof wof woooof wf woooof wf. Wf woof wooooof wooooof

this sea-monster was, is not mentioned. But as he destroyed ships, as
woof wof-wooooof wof, wf wof wooooooof. Wof wf wf wooooooof wooof, wf

well as for other reasons, he must have been a whale; and I am strongly
woof wf wof wooof wooooof, wf woof woof woof w wooof; wof W wf woooooof

inclined to think a sperm whale. And I will tell you why. For a long
woooooof wf wooof w wooof wooof. Wof W woof woof wof wof. Wof w woof

time I fancied that the sperm whale had been always unknown in the
woof W wooooof woof wof wooof wooof wof woof woooof wooooof wf wof

Mediterranean and the deep waters connecting with it. Even now I am
Wooooooooooof wof wof woof woooof woooooooof woof wf. Woof wof W wf

certain that those seas are not, and perhaps never can be, in the
wooooof woof wooof woof wof wof, wof wooooof wooof wof wf, wf wof

present constitution of things, a place for his habitual gregarious
wooooof woooooooooof wf woooof, w wooof wof wof woooooof woooooooof

resort. But further investigations have recently proved to me, that in
woooof. Wof wooooof woooooooooooof woof woooooof woooof wf wf, woof wf

modern times there have been isolated instances of the presence of the
woooof wooof wooof woof woof woooooof wooooooof wf wof woooooof wf wof

sperm whale in the Mediterranean. I am told, on good authority, that
wooof wooof wf wof Wooooooooooof. W wf woof, wf woof wooooooof, woof

on the Barbary coast, a Commodore Davis of the British navy found
wf wof Wooooof wooof, w Wooooooof Wooof wf wof Wooooof woof wooof

the skeleton of a sperm whale. Now, as a vessel of war readily passes
wof woooooof wf w wooof wooof. Wof, wf w woooof wf wof wooooof woooof

through the Dardanelles, hence a sperm whale could, by the same route,
wooooof wof Wooooooooof, wooof w wooof wooof wooof, wf wof woof wooof,

pass out of the Mediterranean into the Propontis.
woof wof wf wof Wooooooooooof woof wof Wooooooof.




In the Propontis, as far as I can learn, none of that peculiar substance
Wf wof Wooooooof, wf wof wf W wof wooof, woof wf woof woooooof wooooooof

called BRIT is to be found, the aliment of the right whale. But I have
woooof WOOF wf wf wf wooof, wof wooooof wf wof wooof wooof. Wof W woof

every reason to believe that the food of the sperm whale--squid or
wooof woooof wf wooooof woof wof woof wf wof wooof wooof--wooof wf

cuttle-fish--lurks at the bottom of that sea, because large creatures,
woooof-woof--wooof wf wof woooof wf woof wof, wooooof wooof wooooooof,

but by no means the largest of that sort, have been found at its
wof wf wf wooof wof wooooof wf woof woof, woof woof wooof wf wof

surface. If, then, you properly put these statements together, and
wooooof. Wf, woof, wof woooooof wof wooof woooooooof woooooof, wof

reason upon them a bit, you will clearly perceive that, according to all
woooof woof woof w wof, wof woof wooooof woooooof woof, wooooooof wf wof

human reasoning, Procopius's sea-monster, that for half a century stove
wooof wooooooof, Wooooooof'w wof-wooooof, woof wof woof w wooooof wooof

the ships of a Roman Emperor, must in all probability have been a sperm
wof wooof wf w Wooof Wooooof, woof wf wof wooooooooof woof woof w wooof

whale.
wooof.










CHAPTER 46. Surmises.
WOOOOOF wf. Woooooof.







Though, consumed with the hot fire of his purpose, Ahab in all his
Woooof, woooooof woof wof wof woof wf wof wooooof, Woof wf wof wof

thoughts and actions ever had in view the ultimate capture of Moby Dick;
woooooof wof wooooof woof wof wf woof wof woooooof wooooof wf Woof Woof;

though he seemed ready to sacrifice all mortal interests to that one
woooof wf woooof wooof wf wooooooof wof woooof wooooooof wf woof wof

passion; nevertheless it may have been that he was by nature and long
wooooof; woooooooooof wf wof woof woof woof wf wof wf woooof wof woof

habituation far too wedded to a fiery whaleman's ways, altogether to
wooooooooof wof wof woooof wf w wooof woooooof'w woof, woooooooof wf

abandon the collateral prosecution of the voyage. Or at least if
wooooof wof woooooooof wooooooooof wf wof woooof. Wf wf wooof wf

this were otherwise, there were not wanting other motives much more
woof woof wooooooof, wooof woof wof wooooof wooof wooooof woof woof

influential with him. It would be refining too much, perhaps, even
wooooooooof woof wof. Wf wooof wf woooooof wof woof, wooooof, woof

considering his monomania, to hint that his vindictiveness towards the
wooooooooof wof wooooooof, wf woof woof wof woooooooooooof wooooof wof

White Whale might have possibly extended itself in some degree to all
Wooof Wooof wooof woof woooooof woooooof woooof wf woof woooof wf wof

sperm whales, and that the more monsters he slew by so much the more he
wooof woooof, wof woof wof woof woooooof wf woof wf wf woof wof woof wf

multiplied the chances that each subsequently encountered whale would
woooooooof wof wooooof woof woof woooooooooof wooooooooof wooof wooof

prove to be the hated one he hunted. But if such an hypothesis be indeed
wooof wf wf wof wooof wof wf woooof. Wof wf woof wf woooooooof wf woooof

exceptionable, there were still additional considerations which, though
wooooooooooof, wooof woof wooof woooooooof woooooooooooof wooof, woooof

not so strictly according with the wildness of his ruling passion, yet
wof wf woooooof wooooooof woof wof woooooof wf wof woooof wooooof, wof

were by no means incapable of swaying him.
woof wf wf wooof wooooooof wf wooooof wof.




To accomplish his object Ahab must use tools; and of all tools used in
Wf woooooooof wof woooof Woof woof wof wooof; wof wf wof wooof woof wf

the shadow of the moon, men are most apt to get out of order. He knew,
wof woooof wf wof woof, wof wof woof wof wf wof wof wf wooof. Wf woof,

for example, that however magnetic his ascendency in some respects was
wof wooooof, woof wooooof woooooof wof woooooooof wf woof woooooof wof

over Starbuck, yet that ascendency did not cover the complete spiritual
woof Woooooof, wof woof woooooooof wof wof wooof wof woooooof wooooooof

man any more than mere corporeal superiority involves intellectual
wof wof woof woof woof wooooooof wooooooooof woooooof woooooooooof

mastership; for to the purely spiritual, the intellectual but stand in a
woooooooof; wof wf wof woooof wooooooof, wof woooooooooof wof wooof wf w

sort of corporeal relation. Starbuck's body and Starbuck's coerced will
woof wf wooooooof woooooof. Woooooof'w woof wof Woooooof'w wooooof woof

were Ahab's, so long as Ahab kept his magnet at Starbuck's brain; still
woof Woof'w, wf woof wf Woof woof wof woooof wf Woooooof'w wooof; wooof

he knew that for all this the chief mate, in his soul, abhorred his
wf woof woof wof wof woof wof wooof woof, wf wof woof, woooooof wof

captain's quest, and could he, would joyfully disintegrate himself from
wooooof'w wooof, wof wooof wf, wooof woooooof woooooooooof wooooof woof

it, or even frustrate it. It might be that a long interval would elapse
wf, wf woof wooooooof wf. Wf wooof wf woof w woof woooooof wooof woooof

ere the White Whale was seen. During that long interval Starbuck
wof wof Wooof Wooof wof woof. Woooof woof woof woooooof Woooooof

would ever be apt to fall into open relapses of rebellion against his
wooof woof wf wof wf woof woof woof woooooof wf wooooooof wooooof wof

captain's leadership, unless some ordinary, prudential, circumstantial
wooooof'w woooooooof, woooof woof woooooof, woooooooof, woooooooooooof

influences were brought to bear upon him. Not only that, but the subtle
woooooooof woof wooooof wf woof woof wof. Wof woof woof, wof wof woooof

insanity of Ahab respecting Moby Dick was noways more significantly
woooooof wf Woof woooooooof Woof Woof wof woooof woof wooooooooooof

manifested than in his superlative sense and shrewdness in foreseeing
woooooooof woof wf wof wooooooooof wooof wof woooooooof wf woooooooof

that, for the present, the hunt should in some way be stripped of that
woof, wof wof wooooof, wof woof woooof wf woof wof wf woooooof wf woof

strange imaginative impiousness which naturally invested it; that
wooooof wooooooooof wooooooooof wooof wooooooof woooooof wf; woof

the full terror of the voyage must be kept withdrawn into the obscure
wof woof woooof wf wof woooof woof wf woof wooooooof woof wof wooooof

background (for few men's courage is proof against protracted meditation
woooooooof (wof wof wof'w wooooof wf wooof wooooof woooooooof woooooooof

unrelieved by action); that when they stood their long night watches,
woooooooof wf woooof); woof woof woof wooof wooof woof wooof wooooof,

his officers and men must have some nearer things to think of than Moby
wof woooooof wof wof woof woof woof woooof woooof wf wooof wf woof Woof

Dick. For however eagerly and impetuously the savage crew had hailed the
Woof. Wof wooooof wooooof wof wooooooooof wof woooof woof wof woooof wof

announcement of his quest; yet all sailors of all sorts are more or less
woooooooooof wf wof wooof; wof wof wooooof wf wof wooof wof woof wf woof

capricious and unreliable--they live in the varying outer weather, and
woooooooof wof woooooooof--woof woof wf wof wooooof wooof wooooof, wof

they inhale its fickleness--and when retained for any object remote and
woof woooof wof woooooooof--wof woof woooooof wof wof woooof woooof wof

blank in the pursuit, however promissory of life and passion in the
wooof wf wof wooooof, wooooof woooooooof wf woof wof wooooof wf wof

end, it is above all things requisite that temporary interests and
wof, wf wf wooof wof woooof wooooooof woof wooooooof wooooooof wof

employments should intervene and hold them healthily suspended for the
wooooooooof woooof wooooooof wof woof woof wooooooof wooooooof wof wof

final dash.
wooof woof.




Nor was Ahab unmindful of another thing. In times of strong emotion
Wof wof Woof wooooooof wf wooooof wooof. Wf wooof wf woooof wooooof

mankind disdain all base considerations; but such times are evanescent.
wooooof wooooof wof woof woooooooooooof; wof woof wooof wof woooooooof.

The permanent constitutional condition of the manufactured man, thought
Wof wooooooof woooooooooooof wooooooof wf wof woooooooooof wof, wooooof

Ahab, is sordidness. Granting that the White Whale fully incites the
Woof, wf woooooooof. Woooooof woof wof Wooof Wooof wooof wooooof wof

hearts of this my savage crew, and playing round their savageness even
woooof wf woof wf woooof woof, wof wooooof wooof wooof woooooooof woof

breeds a certain generous knight-errantism in them, still, while for the
woooof w wooooof woooooof woooof-wooooooof wf woof, wooof, wooof wof wof

love of it they give chase to Moby Dick, they must also have food
woof wf wf woof woof wooof wf Woof Woof, woof woof woof woof woof

for their more common, daily appetites. For even the high lifted and
wof wooof woof woooof, wooof wooooooof. Wof woof wof woof woooof wof

chivalric Crusaders of old times were not content to traverse two
wooooooof Wooooooof wf wof wooof woof wof wooooof wf woooooof wof

thousand miles of land to fight for their holy sepulchre, without
woooooof wooof wf woof wf wooof wof wooof woof wooooooof, wooooof

committing burglaries, picking pockets, and gaining other pious
woooooooof woooooooof, wooooof wooooof, wof wooooof wooof wooof

perquisites by the way. Had they been strictly held to their one final
wooooooooof wf wof wof. Wof woof woof woooooof woof wf wooof wof wooof

and romantic object--that final and romantic object, too many would have
wof woooooof woooof--woof wooof wof woooooof woooof, wof woof wooof woof

turned from in disgust. I will not strip these men, thought Ahab, of all
woooof woof wf wooooof. W woof wof wooof wooof wof, wooooof Woof, wf wof

hopes of cash--aye, cash. They may scorn cash now; but let some months
wooof wf woof--wof, woof. Woof wof wooof woof wof; wof wof woof woooof

go by, and no perspective promise of it to them, and then this same
wf wf, wof wf wooooooooof wooooof wf wf wf woof, wof woof woof woof

quiescent cash all at once mutinying in them, this same cash would soon
wooooooof woof wof wf woof wooooooof wf woof, woof woof woof wooof woof

cashier Ahab.
wooooof Woof.




Nor was there wanting still another precautionary motive more related
Wof wof wooof wooooof wooof wooooof wooooooooooof woooof woof wooooof

to Ahab personally. Having impulsively, it is probable, and perhaps
wf Woof woooooooof. Woooof wooooooooof, wf wf woooooof, wof wooooof

somewhat prematurely revealed the prime but private purpose of the
woooooof wooooooooof woooooof wof wooof wof wooooof wooooof wf wof

Pequod's voyage, Ahab was now entirely conscious that, in so doing,
Woooof'w woooof, Woof wof wof woooooof wooooooof woof, wf wf wooof,

he had indirectly laid himself open to the unanswerable charge of
wf wof woooooooof woof wooooof woof wf wof woooooooooof woooof wf

usurpation; and with perfect impunity, both moral and legal, his crew
woooooooof; wof woof wooooof woooooof, woof wooof wof wooof, wof woof

if so disposed, and to that end competent, could refuse all further
wf wf woooooof, wof wf woof wof wooooooof, wooof woooof wof wooooof

obedience to him, and even violently wrest from him the command. From
wooooooof wf wof, wof woof wooooooof wooof woof wof wof wooooof. Woof

even the barely hinted imputation of usurpation, and the possible
woof wof woooof woooof woooooooof wf woooooooof, wof wof woooooof

consequences of such a suppressed impression gaining ground, Ahab must
woooooooooof wf woof w woooooooof woooooooof wooooof woooof, Woof woof

of course have been most anxious to protect himself. That protection
wf woooof woof woof woof wooooof wf wooooof wooooof. Woof woooooooof

could only consist in his own predominating brain and heart and hand,
wooof woof wooooof wf wof wof wooooooooooof wooof wof wooof wof woof,

backed by a heedful, closely calculating attention to every minute
woooof wf w wooooof, wooooof wooooooooof wooooooof wf wooof woooof

atmospheric influence which it was possible for his crew to be subjected
wooooooooof wooooooof wooof wf wof woooooof wof wof woof wf wf wooooooof

to.
wf.




For all these reasons then, and others perhaps too analytic to be
Wof wof wooof wooooof woof, wof woooof wooooof wof woooooof wf wf

verbally developed here, Ahab plainly saw that he must still in a good
woooooof wooooooof woof, Woof wooooof wof woof wf woof wooof wf w woof

degree continue true to the natural, nominal purpose of the Pequod's
woooof woooooof woof wf wof wooooof, wooooof wooooof wf wof Woooof'w

voyage; observe all customary usages; and not only that, but force
woooof; wooooof wof wooooooof woooof; wof wof woof woof, wof wooof

himself to evince all his well known passionate interest in the general
wooooof wf woooof wof wof woof wooof woooooooof woooooof wf wof wooooof

pursuit of his profession.
wooooof wf wof woooooooof.




Be all this as it may, his voice was now often heard hailing the three
Wf wof woof wf wf wof, wof wooof wof wof wooof wooof wooooof wof wooof

mast-heads and admonishing them to keep a bright look-out, and not omit
woof-wooof wof wooooooooof woof wf woof w woooof woof-wof, wof wof woof

reporting even a porpoise. This vigilance was not long without reward.
wooooooof woof w woooooof. Woof wooooooof wof wof woof wooooof woooof.










CHAPTER 47. The Mat-Maker.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Wof-Wooof.







It was a cloudy, sultry afternoon; the seamen were lazily lounging
Wf wof w woooof, woooof wooooooof; wof woooof woof woooof woooooof

about the decks, or vacantly gazing over into the lead-coloured waters.
wooof wof wooof, wf woooooof woooof woof woof wof woof-woooooof woooof.

Queequeg and I were mildly employed weaving what is called a sword-mat,
Woooooof wof W woof woooof woooooof wooooof woof wf woooof w wooof-wof,

for an additional lashing to our boat. So still and subdued and yet
wof wf woooooooof wooooof wf wof woof. Wf wooof wof wooooof wof wof

somehow preluding was all the scene, and such an incantation of reverie
wooooof wooooooof wof wof wof wooof, wof woof wf wooooooooof wf wooooof

lurked in the air, that each silent sailor seemed resolved into his own
woooof wf wof wof, woof woof woooof woooof woooof woooooof woof wof wof

invisible self.
wooooooof woof.




I was the attendant or page of Queequeg, while busy at the mat. As I
W wof wof wooooooof wf woof wf Woooooof, wooof woof wf wof wof. Wf W

kept passing and repassing the filling or woof of marline between
woof wooooof wof wooooooof wof wooooof wf woof wf wooooof wooooof

the long yarns of the warp, using my own hand for the shuttle, and as
wof woof wooof wf wof woof, wooof wf wof woof wof wof wooooof, wof wf

Queequeg, standing sideways, ever and anon slid his heavy oaken sword
Woooooof, woooooof woooooof, woof wof woof woof wof wooof wooof wooof

between the threads, and idly looking off upon the water, carelessly and
wooooof wof wooooof, wof woof wooooof wof woof wof wooof, woooooooof wof

unthinkingly drove home every yarn: I say so strange a dreaminess did
woooooooooof wooof woof wooof woof: W wof wf wooooof w woooooooof wof

there then reign all over the ship and all over the sea, only broken by
wooof woof wooof wof woof wof woof wof wof woof wof wof, woof woooof wf

the intermitting dull sound of the sword, that it seemed as if this were
wof woooooooooof woof wooof wf wof wooof, woof wf woooof wf wf woof woof

the Loom of Time, and I myself were a shuttle mechanically weaving
wof Woof wf Woof, wof W woooof woof w wooooof woooooooooof wooooof

and weaving away at the Fates. There lay the fixed threads of the warp
wof wooooof woof wf wof Wooof. Wooof wof wof wooof wooooof wf wof woof

subject to but one single, ever returning, unchanging vibration, and
wooooof wf wof wof woooof, woof wooooooof, woooooooof wooooooof, wof

that vibration merely enough to admit of the crosswise interblending
woof wooooooof woooof woooof wf wooof wf wof wooooooof wooooooooooof

of other threads with its own. This warp seemed necessity; and here,
wf wooof wooooof woof wof wof. Woof woof woooof wooooooof; wof woof,

thought I, with my own hand I ply my own shuttle and weave my own
wooooof W, woof wf wof woof W wof wf wof wooooof wof wooof wf wof

destiny into these unalterable threads. Meantime, Queequeg's impulsive,
wooooof woof wooof wooooooooof wooooof. Woooooof, Woooooof'w wooooooof,

indifferent sword, sometimes hitting the woof slantingly, or crookedly,
wooooooooof wooof, wooooooof wooooof wof woof woooooooof, wf wooooooof,

or strongly, or weakly, as the case might be; and by this difference
wf woooooof, wf woooof, wf wof woof wooof wf; wof wf woof woooooooof

in the concluding blow producing a corresponding contrast in the final
wf wof woooooooof woof wooooooof w wooooooooooof woooooof wf wof wooof

aspect of the completed fabric; this savage's sword, thought I,
woooof wf wof wooooooof woooof; woof woooof'w wooof, wooooof W,

which thus finally shapes and fashions both warp and woof; this
wooof woof wooooof woooof wof woooooof woof woof wof woof; woof

easy, indifferent sword must be chance--aye, chance, free will, and
woof, wooooooooof wooof woof wf woooof--wof, woooof, woof woof, wof

necessity--nowise incompatible--all interweavingly working together.
wooooooof--woooof woooooooooof--wof woooooooooooof wooooof woooooof.

The straight warp of necessity, not to be swerved from its ultimate
Wof woooooof woof wf wooooooof, wof wf wf wooooof woof wof woooooof

course--its every alternating vibration, indeed, only tending to that;
woooof--wof wooof wooooooooof wooooooof, woooof, woof wooooof wf woof;

free will still free to ply her shuttle between given threads; and
woof woof wooof woof wf wof wof wooooof wooooof wooof wooooof; wof

chance, though restrained in its play within the right lines of
woooof, woooof woooooooof wf wof woof woooof wof wooof wooof wf

necessity, and sideways in its motions directed by free will, though
wooooooof, wof woooooof wf wof wooooof woooooof wf woof woof, woooof

thus prescribed to by both, chance by turns rules either, and has the
woof woooooooof wf wf woof, woooof wf wooof wooof woooof, wof wof wof

last featuring blow at events.
woof wooooooof woof wf woooof.







Thus we were weaving and weaving away when I started at a sound so
Woof wf woof wooooof wof wooooof woof woof W wooooof wf w wooof wf

strange, long drawn, and musically wild and unearthly, that the ball
wooooof, woof wooof, wof wooooooof woof wof wooooooof, woof wof woof

of free will dropped from my hand, and I stood gazing up at the clouds
wf woof woof wooooof woof wf woof, wof W wooof woooof wf wf wof woooof

whence that voice dropped like a wing. High aloft in the cross-trees was
woooof woof wooof wooooof woof w woof. Woof wooof wf wof wooof-wooof wof

that mad Gay-Header, Tashtego. His body was reaching eagerly forward,
woof wof Wof-Woooof, Woooooof. Wof woof wof woooooof wooooof wooooof,

his hand stretched out like a wand, and at brief sudden intervals he
wof woof wooooooof wof woof w woof, wof wf wooof woooof wooooooof wf

continued his cries. To be sure the same sound was that very moment
wooooooof wof wooof. Wf wf woof wof woof wooof wof woof woof woooof

perhaps being heard all over the seas, from hundreds of whalemen's
wooooof wooof wooof wof woof wof woof, woof woooooof wf woooooof'w

look-outs perched as high in the air; but from few of those lungs could
woof-woof wooooof wf woof wf wof wof; wof woof wof wf wooof wooof wooof

that accustomed old cry have derived such a marvellous cadence as from
woof woooooooof wof wof woof wooooof woof w woooooooof wooooof wf woof

Tashtego the Indian's.
Woooooof wof Woooof'w.




As he stood hovering over you half suspended in air, so wildly and
Wf wf wooof woooooof woof wof woof wooooooof wf wof, wf woooof wof

eagerly peering towards the horizon, you would have thought him some
wooooof wooooof wooooof wof wooooof, wof wooof woof wooooof wof woof

prophet or seer beholding the shadows of Fate, and by those wild cries
wooooof wf woof wooooooof wof wooooof wf Woof, wof wf wooof woof wooof

announcing their coming.
woooooooof wooof woooof.




"There she blows! there! there! there! she blows! she blows!"
"Wooof wof wooof! wooof! wooof! wooof! wof wooof! wof wooof!"




"Where-away?"
"Wooof-woof?"




"On the lee-beam, about two miles off! a school of them!"
"Wf wof wof-woof, wooof wof wooof wof! w woooof wf woof!"




Instantly all was commotion.
Wooooooof wof wof wooooooof.




The Sperm Whale blows as a clock ticks, with the same undeviating and
Wof Wooof Wooof wooof wf w wooof wooof, woof wof woof wooooooooof wof

reliable uniformity. And thereby whalemen distinguish this fish from
woooooof woooooooof. Wof wooooof woooooof wooooooooof woof woof woof

other tribes of his genus.
wooof woooof wf wof wooof.




"There go flukes!" was now the cry from Tashtego; and the whales
"Wooof wf woooof!" wof wof wof wof woof Woooooof; wof wof woooof

disappeared.
wooooooooof.




"Quick, steward!" cried Ahab. "Time! time!"
"Wooof, wooooof!" wooof Woof. "Woof! woof!"




Dough-Boy hurried below, glanced at the watch, and reported the exact
Wooof-Wof wooooof wooof, wooooof wf wof wooof, wof woooooof wof wooof

minute to Ahab.
woooof wf Woof.




The ship was now kept away from the wind, and she went gently rolling
Wof woof wof wof woof woof woof wof woof, wof wof woof woooof wooooof

before it. Tashtego reporting that the whales had gone down heading to
woooof wf. Woooooof wooooooof woof wof woooof wof woof woof wooooof wf

leeward, we confidently looked to see them again directly in advance of
wooooof, wf wooooooooof woooof wf wof woof wooof woooooof wf wooooof wf

our bows. For that singular craft at times evinced by the Sperm Whale
wof woof. Wof woof woooooof wooof wf wooof wooooof wf wof Wooof Wooof

when, sounding with his head in one direction, he nevertheless, while
woof, woooooof woof wof woof wf wof wooooooof, wf woooooooooof, wooof

concealed beneath the surface, mills round, and swiftly swims off in the
wooooooof wooooof wof wooooof, wooof wooof, wof wooooof wooof wof wf wof

opposite quarter--this deceitfulness of his could not now be in action;
woooooof wooooof--woof wooooooooooof wf wof wooof wof wof wf wf woooof;

for there was no reason to suppose that the fish seen by Tashtego had
wof wooof wof wf woooof wf wooooof woof wof woof woof wf Woooooof wof

been in any way alarmed, or indeed knew at all of our vicinity. One of
woof wf wof wof wooooof, wf woooof woof wf wof wf wof woooooof. Wof wf

the men selected for shipkeepers--that is, those not appointed to the
wof wof woooooof wof wooooooooof--woof wf, wooof wof wooooooof wf wof

boats, by this time relieved the Indian at the main-mast head. The
wooof, wf woof woof woooooof wof Woooof wf wof woof-woof woof. Wof

sailors at the fore and mizzen had come down; the line tubs were fixed
wooooof wf wof woof wof woooof wof woof woof; wof woof woof woof wooof

in their places; the cranes were thrust out; the mainyard was backed,
wf wooof woooof; wof woooof woof woooof wof; wof woooooof wof woooof,

and the three boats swung over the sea like three samphire baskets over
wof wof wooof wooof wooof woof wof wof woof wooof woooooof wooooof woof

high cliffs. Outside of the bulwarks their eager crews with one hand
woof woooof. Wooooof wf wof woooooof wooof wooof wooof woof wof woof

clung to the rail, while one foot was expectantly poised on the gunwale.
wooof wf wof woof, wooof wof woof wof wooooooooof woooof wf wof wooooof.

So look the long line of man-of-war's men about to throw themselves on
Wf woof wof woof woof wf wof-wf-wof'w wof wooof wf wooof woooooooof wf

board an enemy's ship.
wooof wf wooof'w woof.




But at this critical instant a sudden exclamation was heard that took
Wof wf woof woooooof wooooof w woooof wooooooooof wof wooof woof woof

every eye from the whale. With a start all glared at dark Ahab, who was
wooof wof woof wof wooof. Woof w wooof wof woooof wf woof Woof, wof wof

surrounded by five dusky phantoms that seemed fresh formed out of air.
woooooooof wf woof wooof woooooof woof woooof wooof woooof wof wf wof.










CHAPTER 48. The First Lowering.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Wooof Woooooof.







The phantoms, for so they then seemed, were flitting on the other side
Wof woooooof, wof wf woof woof woooof, woof woooooof wf wof wooof woof

of the deck, and, with a noiseless celerity, were casting loose the
wf wof woof, wof, woof w wooooooof woooooof, woof wooooof wooof wof

tackles and bands of the boat which swung there. This boat had always
wooooof wof wooof wf wof woof wooof wooof wooof. Woof woof wof woooof

been deemed one of the spare boats, though technically called the
woof woooof wof wf wof wooof wooof, woooof wooooooooof woooof wof

captain's, on account of its hanging from the starboard quarter. The
wooooof'w, wf wooooof wf wof wooooof woof wof wooooooof wooooof. Wof

figure that now stood by its bows was tall and swart, with one white
woooof woof wof wooof wf wof woof wof woof wof wooof, woof wof wooof

tooth evilly protruding from its steel-like lips. A rumpled Chinese
wooof woooof woooooooof woof wof wooof-woof woof. W wooooof Wooooof

jacket of black cotton funereally invested him, with wide black trowsers
woooof wf wooof woooof woooooooof woooooof wof, woof woof wooof woooooof

of the same dark stuff. But strangely crowning this ebonness was a
wf wof woof woof wooof. Wof wooooooof woooooof woof woooooof wof w

glistening white plaited turban, the living hair braided and coiled
woooooooof wooof wooooof woooof, wof woooof woof wooooof wof woooof

round and round upon his head. Less swart in aspect, the companions of
wooof wof wooof woof wof woof. Woof wooof wf woooof, wof woooooooof wf

this figure were of that vivid, tiger-yellow complexion peculiar to
woof woooof woof wf woof wooof, wooof-woooof woooooooof woooooof wf

some of the aboriginal natives of the Manillas;--a race notorious for
woof wf wof woooooooof wooooof wf wof Woooooof;--w woof wooooooof wof

a certain diabolism of subtilty, and by some honest white mariners
w wooooof wooooooof wf woooooof, wof wf woof woooof wooof woooooof

supposed to be the paid spies and secret confidential agents on the
woooooof wf wf wof woof wooof wof woooof woooooooooof woooof wf wof

water of the devil, their lord, whose counting-room they suppose to be
wooof wf wof wooof, wooof woof, wooof woooooof-woof woof wooooof wf wf

elsewhere.
wooooooof.




While yet the wondering ship's company were gazing upon these strangers,
Wooof wof wof wooooooof woof'w wooooof woof woooof woof wooof wooooooof,

Ahab cried out to the white-turbaned old man at their head, "All ready
Woof wooof wof wf wof wooof-woooooof wof wof wf wooof woof, "Wof wooof

there, Fedallah?"
wooof, Woooooof?"




"Ready," was the half-hissed reply.
"Wooof," wof wof woof-woooof wooof.




"Lower away then; d'ye hear?" shouting across the deck. "Lower away
"Wooof woof woof; w'wf woof?" woooooof woooof wof woof. "Wooof woof

there, I say."
wooof, W wof."




Such was the thunder of his voice, that spite of their amazement the men
Woof wof wof wooooof wf wof wooof, woof wooof wf wooof wooooooof wof wof

sprang over the rail; the sheaves whirled round in the blocks; with a
woooof woof wof woof; wof wooooof wooooof wooof wf wof woooof; woof w

wallow, the three boats dropped into the sea; while, with a dexterous,
woooof, wof wooof wooof wooooof woof wof wof; wooof, woof w wooooooof,

off-handed daring, unknown in any other vocation, the sailors,
wof-woooof woooof, wooooof wf wof wooof woooooof, wof wooooof,

goat-like, leaped down the rolling ship's side into the tossed boats
woof-woof, woooof woof wof wooooof woof'w woof woof wof woooof wooof

below.
wooof.




Hardly had they pulled out from under the ship's lee, when a fourth
Woooof wof woof woooof wof woof wooof wof woof'w wof, woof w woooof

keel, coming from the windward side, pulled round under the stern, and
woof, woooof woof wof woooooof woof, woooof wooof wooof wof wooof, wof

showed the five strangers rowing Ahab, who, standing erect in the stern,
woooof wof woof wooooooof woooof Woof, wof, woooooof wooof wf wof wooof,

loudly hailed Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask, to spread themselves widely,
woooof woooof Woooooof, Wooof, wof Wooof, wf woooof woooooooof woooof,

so as to cover a large expanse of water. But with all their eyes again
wf wf wf wooof w wooof wooooof wf wooof. Wof woof wof wooof woof wooof

riveted upon the swart Fedallah and his crew, the inmates of the other
wooooof woof wof wooof Woooooof wof wof woof, wof wooooof wf wof wooof

boats obeyed not the command.
wooof woooof wof wof wooooof.




"Captain Ahab?--" said Starbuck.
"Wooooof Woof?--" woof Woooooof.




"Spread yourselves," cried Ahab; "give way, all four boats. Thou, Flask,
"Woooof woooooooof," wooof Woof; "woof wof, wof woof wooof. Woof, Wooof,

pull out more to leeward!"
woof wof woof wf wooooof!"




"Aye, aye, sir," cheerily cried little King-Post, sweeping round
"Wof, wof, wof," woooooof wooof woooof Woof-Woof, woooooof wooof

his great steering oar. "Lay back!" addressing his crew.
wof wooof woooooof wof. "Wof woof!" woooooooof wof woof.

"There!--there!--there again! There she blows right ahead, boys!--lay
"Wooof!--wooof!--wooof wooof! Wooof wof wooof wooof wooof, woof!--wof

back!"
woof!"




"Never heed yonder yellow boys, Archy."
"Wooof woof woooof woooof woof, Wooof."




"Oh, I don't mind'em, sir," said Archy; "I knew it all before now.
"Wf, W wof'w woof'wf, wof," woof Wooof; "W woof wf wof woooof wof.

Didn't I hear 'em in the hold? And didn't I tell Cabaco here of it? What
Woof'w W woof 'wf wf wof woof? Wof woof'w W woof Woooof woof wf wf? Woof

say ye, Cabaco? They are stowaways, Mr. Flask."
wof wf, Woooof? Woof wof wooooooof, Wf. Wooof."




"Pull, pull, my fine hearts-alive; pull, my children; pull, my little
"Woof, woof, wf woof woooof-wooof; woof, wf woooooof; woof, wf woooof

ones," drawlingly and soothingly sighed Stubb to his crew, some of whom
woof," woooooooof wof woooooooof woooof Wooof wf wof woof, woof wf woof

still showed signs of uneasiness. "Why don't you break your backbones,
wooof woooof wooof wf woooooooof. "Wof wof'w wof wooof woof wooooooof,

my boys? What is it you stare at? Those chaps in yonder boat? Tut! They
wf woof? Woof wf wf wof wooof wf? Wooof wooof wf woooof woof? Wof! Woof

are only five more hands come to help us--never mind from where--the
wof woof woof woof wooof woof wf woof wf--wooof woof woof wooof--wof

more the merrier. Pull, then, do pull; never mind the brimstone--devils
woof wof wooooof. Woof, woof, wf woof; wooof woof wof wooooooof--woooof

are good fellows enough. So, so; there you are now; that's the stroke
wof woof wooooof woooof. Wf, wf; wooof wof wof wof; woof'w wof woooof

for a thousand pounds; that's the stroke to sweep the stakes! Hurrah
wof w woooooof woooof; woof'w wof woooof wf wooof wof woooof! Woooof

for the gold cup of sperm oil, my heroes! Three cheers, men--all hearts
wof wof woof wof wf wooof wof, wf woooof! Wooof woooof, wof--wof woooof

alive! Easy, easy; don't be in a hurry--don't be in a hurry. Why don't
wooof! Woof, woof; wof'w wf wf w wooof--wof'w wf wf w wooof. Wof wof'w

you snap your oars, you rascals? Bite something, you dogs! So, so, so,
wof woof woof woof, wof wooooof? Woof wooooooof, wof woof! Wf, wf, wf,

then:--softly, softly! That's it--that's it! long and strong. Give way
woof:--woooof, woooof! Woof'w wf--woof'w wf! woof wof woooof. Woof wof

there, give way! The devil fetch ye, ye ragamuffin rapscallions; ye are
wooof, woof wof! Wof wooof wooof wf, wf woooooooof woooooooooof; wf wof

all asleep. Stop snoring, ye sleepers, and pull. Pull, will ye? pull,
wof woooof. Woof wooooof, wf woooooof, wof woof. Woof, woof wf? woof,

can't ye? pull, won't ye? Why in the name of gudgeons and ginger-cakes
wof'w wf? woof, wof'w wf? Wof wf wof woof wf woooooof wof woooof-wooof

don't ye pull?--pull and break something! pull, and start your eyes out!
wof'w wf woof?--woof wof wooof wooooooof! woof, wof wooof woof woof wof!

Here!" whipping out the sharp knife from his girdle; "every mother's son
Woof!" woooooof wof wof wooof wooof woof wof woooof; "wooof woooof'w wof

of ye draw his knife, and pull with the blade between his teeth. That's
wf wf woof wof wooof, wof woof woof wof wooof wooooof wof wooof. Woof'w

it--that's it. Now ye do something; that looks like it, my steel-bits.
wf--woof'w wf. Wof wf wf wooooooof; woof wooof woof wf, wf wooof-woof.

Start her--start her, my silver-spoons! Start her, marling-spikes!"
Wooof wof--wooof wof, wf woooof-woooof! Wooof wof, wooooof-woooof!"




Stubb's exordium to his crew is given here at large, because he had
Wooof'w woooooof wf wof woof wf wooof woof wf wooof, wooooof wf wof

rather a peculiar way of talking to them in general, and especially in
woooof w woooooof wof wf wooooof wf woof wf wooooof, wof woooooooof wf

inculcating the religion of rowing. But you must not suppose from this
wooooooooof wof woooooof wf woooof. Wof wof woof wof wooooof woof woof

specimen of his sermonizings that he ever flew into downright passions
woooooof wf wof woooooooooof woof wf woof woof woof wooooooof woooooof

with his congregation. Not at all; and therein consisted his chief
woof wof woooooooooof. Wof wf wof; wof wooooof wooooooof wof wooof

peculiarity. He would say the most terrific things to his crew, in a
wooooooooof. Wf wooof wof wof woof woooooof woooof wf wof woof, wf w

tone so strangely compounded of fun and fury, and the fury seemed so
woof wf wooooooof woooooooof wf wof wof woof, wof wof woof woooof wf

calculated merely as a spice to the fun, that no oarsman could hear such
woooooooof woooof wf w wooof wf wof wof, woof wf wooooof wooof woof woof

queer invocations without pulling for dear life, and yet pulling for
wooof wooooooooof wooooof wooooof wof woof woof, wof wof wooooof wof

the mere joke of the thing. Besides he all the time looked so easy and
wof woof woof wf wof wooof. Wooooof wf wof wof woof woooof wf woof wof

indolent himself, so loungingly managed his steering-oar, and so broadly
woooooof wooooof, wf woooooooof wooooof wof woooooof-wof, wof wf wooooof

gaped--open-mouthed at times--that the mere sight of such a yawning
wooof--woof-wooooof wf wooof--woof wof woof wooof wf woof w wooooof

commander, by sheer force of contrast, acted like a charm upon the crew.
wooooooof, wf wooof wooof wf woooooof, wooof woof w wooof woof wof woof.

Then again, Stubb was one of those odd sort of humorists, whose jollity
Woof wooof, Wooof wof wof wf wooof wof woof wf wooooooof, wooof wooooof

is sometimes so curiously ambiguous, as to put all inferiors on their
wf wooooooof wf wooooooof wooooooof, wf wf wof wof wooooooof wf wooof

guard in the matter of obeying them.
wooof wf wof woooof wf wooooof woof.




In obedience to a sign from Ahab, Starbuck was now pulling obliquely
Wf wooooooof wf w woof woof Woof, Woooooof wof wof wooooof wooooooof

across Stubb's bow; and when for a minute or so the two boats were
woooof Wooof'w wof; wof woof wof w woooof wf wf wof wof wooof woof

pretty near to each other, Stubb hailed the mate.
woooof woof wf woof wooof, Wooof woooof wof woof.




"Mr. Starbuck! larboard boat there, ahoy! a word with ye, sir, if ye
"Wf. Woooooof! woooooof woof wooof, woof! w woof woof wf, wof, wf wf

please!"
woooof!"




"Halloa!" returned Starbuck, turning round not a single inch as he
"Woooof!" woooooof Woooooof, wooooof wooof wof w woooof woof wf wf

spoke; still earnestly but whisperingly urging his crew; his face set
wooof; wooof wooooooof wof woooooooooof woooof wof woof; wof woof wof

like a flint from Stubb's.
woof w wooof woof Wooof'w.




"What think ye of those yellow boys, sir!
"Woof wooof wf wf wooof woooof woof, wof!




"Smuggled on board, somehow, before the ship sailed. (Strong, strong,
"Woooooof wf wooof, wooooof, woooof wof woof woooof. (Woooof, woooof,

boys!)" in a whisper to his crew, then speaking out loud again: "A sad
woof!)" wf w wooooof wf wof woof, woof woooooof wof woof wooof: "W wof

business, Mr. Stubb! (seethe her, seethe her, my lads!) but never mind,
woooooof, Wf. Wooof! (woooof wof, woooof wof, wf woof!) wof wooof woof,

Mr. Stubb, all for the best. Let all your crew pull strong, come what
Wf. Wooof, wof wof wof woof. Wof wof woof woof woof woooof, woof woof

will. (Spring, my men, spring!) There's hogsheads of sperm ahead, Mr.
woof. (Woooof, wf wof, woooof!) Wooof'w wooooooof wf wooof wooof, Wf.

Stubb, and that's what ye came for. (Pull, my boys!) Sperm, sperm's the
Wooof, wof woof'w woof wf woof wof. (Woof, wf woof!) Wooof, wooof'w wof

play! This at least is duty; duty and profit hand in hand."
woof! Woof wf wooof wf woof; woof wof woooof woof wf woof."




"Aye, aye, I thought as much," soliloquized Stubb, when the boats
"Wof, wof, W wooooof wf woof," woooooooooof Wooof, woof wof wooof

diverged, "as soon as I clapt eye on 'em, I thought so. Aye, and that's
woooooof, "wf woof wf W wooof wof wf 'wf, W wooooof wf. Wof, wof woof'w

what he went into the after hold for, so often, as Dough-Boy long
woof wf woof woof wof wooof woof wof, wf wooof, wf Wooof-Wof woof

suspected. They were hidden down there. The White Whale's at the bottom
wooooooof. Woof woof woooof woof wooof. Wof Wooof Wooof'w wf wof woooof

of it. Well, well, so be it! Can't be helped! All right! Give way, men!
wf wf. Woof, woof, wf wf wf! Wof'w wf woooof! Wof wooof! Woof wof, wof!

It ain't the White Whale to-day! Give way!"
Wf wof'w wof Wooof Wooof wf-wof! Woof wof!"




Now the advent of these outlandish strangers at such a critical instant
Wof wof woooof wf wooof woooooooof wooooooof wf woof w woooooof wooooof

as the lowering of the boats from the deck, this had not unreasonably
wf wof woooooof wf wof wooof woof wof woof, woof wof wof woooooooooof

awakened a sort of superstitious amazement in some of the ship's
woooooof w woof wf wooooooooooof wooooooof wf woof wf wof woof'w

company; but Archy's fancied discovery having some time previous got
wooooof; wof Wooof'w wooooof wooooooof woooof woof woof woooooof wof

abroad among them, though indeed not credited then, this had in some
woooof wooof woof, woooof woooof wof woooooof woof, woof wof wf woof

small measure prepared them for the event. It took off the extreme edge
wooof wooooof woooooof woof wof wof wooof. Wf woof wof wof wooooof woof

of their wonder; and so what with all this and Stubb's confident way
wf wooof woooof; wof wf woof woof wof woof wof Wooof'w wooooooof wof

of accounting for their appearance, they were for the time freed from
wf woooooooof wof wooof woooooooof, woof woof wof wof woof wooof woof

superstitious surmisings; though the affair still left abundant room for
wooooooooooof woooooooof; woooof wof woooof wooof woof woooooof woof wof

all manner of wild conjectures as to dark Ahab's precise agency in the
wof woooof wf woof wooooooooof wf wf woof Woof'w wooooof woooof wf wof

matter from the beginning. For me, I silently recalled the mysterious
woooof woof wof wooooooof. Wof wf, W woooooof woooooof wof woooooooof

shadows I had seen creeping on board the Pequod during the dim Nantucket
wooooof W wof woof woooooof wf wooof wof Woooof woooof wof wof Wooooooof

dawn, as well as the enigmatical hintings of the unaccountable Elijah.
woof, wf woof wf wof wooooooooof woooooof wf wof wooooooooooof Woooof.




Meantime, Ahab, out of hearing of his officers, having sided the
Woooooof, Woof, wof wf wooooof wf wof woooooof, woooof wooof wof

furthest to windward, was still ranging ahead of the other boats; a
woooooof wf woooooof, wof wooof wooooof wooof wf wof wooof wooof; w

circumstance bespeaking how potent a crew was pulling him. Those tiger
woooooooooof woooooooof wof woooof w woof wof wooooof wof. Wooof wooof

yellow creatures of his seemed all steel and whalebone; like five
woooof wooooooof wf wof woooof wof wooof wof wooooooof; woof woof

trip-hammers they rose and fell with regular strokes of strength, which
woof-wooooof woof woof wof woof woof wooooof wooooof wf woooooof, wooof

periodically started the boat along the water like a horizontal burst
woooooooooof wooooof wof woof wooof wof wooof woof w woooooooof wooof

boiler out of a Mississippi steamer. As for Fedallah, who was seen
woooof wof wf w Wooooooooof wooooof. Wf wof Woooooof, wof wof woof

pulling the harpooneer oar, he had thrown aside his black jacket, and
wooooof wof woooooooof wof, wf wof woooof wooof wof wooof woooof, wof

displayed his naked chest with the whole part of his body above the
wooooooof wof wooof wooof woof wof wooof woof wf wof woof wooof wof

gunwale, clearly cut against the alternating depressions of the watery
wooooof, wooooof wof wooooof wof wooooooooof wooooooooof wf wof woooof

horizon; while at the other end of the boat Ahab, with one arm, like a
wooooof; wooof wf wof wooof wof wf wof woof Woof, woof wof wof, woof w

fencer's, thrown half backward into the air, as if to counterbalance any
woooof'w, woooof woof woooooof woof wof wof, wf wf wf woooooooooooof wof

tendency to trip; Ahab was seen steadily managing his steering oar as in
woooooof wf woof; Woof wof woof woooooof woooooof wof woooooof wof wf wf

a thousand boat lowerings ere the White Whale had torn him. All at once
w woooooof woof wooooooof wof wof Wooof Wooof wof woof wof. Wof wf woof

the outstretched arm gave a peculiar motion and then remained fixed,
wof woooooooooof wof woof w woooooof woooof wof woof woooooof wooof,

while the boat's five oars were seen simultaneously peaked. Boat and
wooof wof woof'w woof woof woof woof woooooooooooof woooof. Woof wof

crew sat motionless on the sea. Instantly the three spread boats in the
woof wof woooooooof wf wof wof. Wooooooof wof wooof woooof wooof wf wof

rear paused on their way. The whales had irregularly settled bodily
woof woooof wf wooof wof. Wof woooof wof wooooooooof wooooof woooof

down into the blue, thus giving no distantly discernible token of the
woof woof wof woof, woof woooof wf wooooooof wooooooooof wooof wf wof

movement, though from his closer vicinity Ahab had observed it.
woooooof, woooof woof wof woooof woooooof Woof wof woooooof wf.




"Every man look out along his oars!" cried Starbuck. "Thou, Queequeg,
"Wooof wof woof wof wooof wof woof!" wooof Woooooof. "Woof, Woooooof,

stand up!"
wooof wf!"




Nimbly springing up on the triangular raised box in the bow, the savage
Woooof wooooooof wf wf wof woooooooof woooof wof wf wof wof, wof woooof

stood erect there, and with intensely eager eyes gazed off towards the
wooof wooof wooof, wof woof wooooooof wooof woof wooof wof wooooof wof

spot where the chase had last been descried. Likewise upon the extreme
woof wooof wof wooof wof woof woof woooooof. Woooooof woof wof wooooof

stern of the boat where it was also triangularly platformed level with
wooof wf wof woof wooof wf wof woof woooooooooof woooooooof wooof woof

the gunwale, Starbuck himself was seen coolly and adroitly balancing
wof wooooof, Woooooof wooooof wof woof woooof wof woooooof wooooooof

himself to the jerking tossings of his chip of a craft, and silently
wooooof wf wof wooooof woooooof wf wof woof wf w wooof, wof woooooof

eyeing the vast blue eye of the sea.
woooof wof woof woof wof wf wof wof.




Not very far distant Flask's boat was also lying breathlessly still; its
Wof woof wof wooooof Wooof'w woof wof woof wooof woooooooooof wooof; wof

commander recklessly standing upon the top of the loggerhead, a stout
wooooooof woooooooof woooooof woof wof wof wf wof woooooooof, w wooof

sort of post rooted in the keel, and rising some two feet above the
woof wf woof woooof wf wof woof, wof woooof woof wof woof wooof wof

level of the stern platform. It is used for catching turns with the
wooof wf wof wooof woooooof. Wf wf woof wof woooooof wooof woof wof

whale line. Its top is not more spacious than the palm of a man's hand,
wooof woof. Wof wof wf wof woof woooooof woof wof woof wf w wof'w woof,

and standing upon such a base as that, Flask seemed perched at the
wof woooooof woof woof w woof wf woof, Wooof woooof wooooof wf wof

mast-head of some ship which had sunk to all but her trucks. But little
woof-woof wf woof woof wooof wof woof wf wof wof wof woooof. Wof woooof

King-Post was small and short, and at the same time little King-Post was
Woof-Woof wof wooof wof wooof, wof wf wof woof woof woooof Woof-Woof wof

full of a large and tall ambition, so that this loggerhead stand-point
woof wf w wooof wof woof woooooof, wf woof woof woooooooof wooof-wooof

of his did by no means satisfy King-Post.
wf wof wof wf wf wooof wooooof Woof-Woof.




"I can't see three seas off; tip us up an oar there, and let me on to
"W wof'w wof wooof woof wof; wof wf wf wf wof wooof, wof wof wf wf wf

that."
woof."




Upon this, Daggoo, with either hand upon the gunwale to steady his
Woof woof, Woooof, woof woooof woof woof wof wooooof wf woooof wof

way, swiftly slid aft, and then erecting himself volunteered his lofty
wof, wooooof woof wof, wof woof woooooof wooooof wooooooooof wof wooof

shoulders for a pedestal.
wooooooof wof w woooooof.




"Good a mast-head as any, sir. Will you mount?"
"Woof w woof-woof wf wof, wof. Woof wof wooof?"




"That I will, and thank ye very much, my fine fellow; only I wish you
"Woof W woof, wof wooof wf woof woof, wf woof woooof; woof W woof wof

fifty feet taller."
wooof woof woooof."




Whereupon planting his feet firmly against two opposite planks of the
Wooooooof woooooof wof woof woooof wooooof wof woooooof woooof wf wof

boat, the gigantic negro, stooping a little, presented his flat palm to
woof, wof woooooof wooof, woooooof w woooof, wooooooof wof woof woof wf

Flask's foot, and then putting Flask's hand on his hearse-plumed head
Wooof'w woof, wof woof wooooof Wooof'w woof wf wof woooof-woooof woof

and bidding him spring as he himself should toss, with one dexterous
wof wooooof wof woooof wf wf wooooof woooof woof, woof wof wooooooof

fling landed the little man high and dry on his shoulders. And here was
wooof woooof wof woooof wof woof wof wof wf wof wooooooof. Wof woof wof

Flask now standing, Daggoo with one lifted arm furnishing him with a
Wooof wof woooooof, Woooof woof wof woooof wof woooooooof wof woof w

breastband to lean against and steady himself by.
woooooooof wf woof wooooof wof woooof wooooof wf.




At any time it is a strange sight to the tyro to see with what wondrous
Wf wof woof wf wf w wooooof wooof wf wof woof wf wof woof woof woooooof

habitude of unconscious skill the whaleman will maintain an erect
woooooof wf wooooooooof wooof wof woooooof woof woooooof wf wooof

posture in his boat, even when pitched about by the most riotously
wooooof wf wof woof, woof woof wooooof wooof wf wof woof wooooooof

perverse and cross-running seas. Still more strange to see him giddily
woooooof wof wooof-wooooof woof. Wooof woof wooooof wf wof wof wooooof

perched upon the loggerhead itself, under such circumstances. But the
wooooof woof wof woooooooof woooof, wooof woof wooooooooooof. Wof wof

sight of little Flask mounted upon gigantic Daggoo was yet more curious;
wooof wf woooof Wooof wooooof woof woooooof Woooof wof wof woof wooooof;

for sustaining himself with a cool, indifferent, easy, unthought of,
wof woooooooof wooooof woof w woof, wooooooooof, woof, wooooooof wf,

barbaric majesty, the noble negro to every roll of the sea harmoniously
woooooof wooooof, wof wooof wooof wf wooof woof wf wof wof woooooooooof

rolled his fine form. On his broad back, flaxen-haired Flask seemed
woooof wof woof woof. Wf wof wooof woof, woooof-woooof Wooof woooof

a snow-flake. The bearer looked nobler than the rider. Though truly
w woof-wooof. Wof woooof woooof woooof woof wof wooof. Woooof wooof

vivacious, tumultuous, ostentatious little Flask would now and then
wooooooof, woooooooof, woooooooooof woooof Wooof wooof wof wof woof

stamp with impatience; but not one added heave did he thereby give to
wooof woof woooooooof; wof wof wof wooof wooof wof wf wooooof woof wf

the negro's lordly chest. So have I seen Passion and Vanity stamping the
wof wooof'w woooof wooof. Wf woof W woof Wooooof wof Woooof woooooof wof

living magnanimous earth, but the earth did not alter her tides and her
woooof wooooooooof wooof, wof wof wooof wof wof wooof wof wooof wof wof

seasons for that.
wooooof wof woof.




Meanwhile Stubb, the third mate, betrayed no such far-gazing
Wooooooof Wooof, wof wooof woof, woooooof wf woof wof-woooof

solicitudes. The whales might have made one of their regular soundings,
wooooooooof. Wof woooof wooof woof woof wof wf wooof wooooof wooooooof,

not a temporary dive from mere fright; and if that were the case,
wof w wooooooof woof woof woof woooof; wof wf woof woof wof woof,

Stubb, as his wont in such cases, it seems, was resolved to solace the
Wooof, wf wof woof wf woof wooof, wf wooof, wof woooooof wf woooof wof

languishing interval with his pipe. He withdrew it from his hatband,
wooooooooof woooooof woof wof woof. Wf woooooof wf woof wof wooooof,

where he always wore it aslant like a feather. He loaded it, and rammed
wooof wf woooof woof wf woooof woof w wooooof. Wf woooof wf, wof woooof

home the loading with his thumb-end; but hardly had he ignited his match
woof wof wooooof woof wof wooof-wof; wof woooof wof wf wooooof wof wooof

across the rough sandpaper of his hand, when Tashtego, his harpooneer,
woooof wof wooof wooooooof wf wof woof, woof Woooooof, wof woooooooof,

whose eyes had been setting to windward like two fixed stars, suddenly
wooof woof wof woof wooooof wf woooooof woof wof wooof wooof, woooooof

dropped like light from his erect attitude to his seat, crying out in a
wooooof woof wooof woof wof wooof woooooof wf wof woof, woooof wof wf w

quick phrensy of hurry, "Down, down all, and give way!--there they are!"
wooof wooooof wf wooof, "Woof, woof wof, wof woof wof!--wooof woof wof!"




To a landsman, no whale, nor any sign of a herring, would have been
Wf w woooooof, wf wooof, wof wof woof wf w wooooof, wooof woof woof

visible at that moment; nothing but a troubled bit of greenish white
wooooof wf woof woooof; wooooof wof w woooooof wof wf woooooof wooof

water, and thin scattered puffs of vapour hovering over it, and
wooof, wof woof wooooooof wooof wf woooof woooooof woof wf, wof

suffusingly blowing off to leeward, like the confused scud from white
wooooooooof wooooof wof wf wooooof, woof wof woooooof woof woof wooof

rolling billows. The air around suddenly vibrated and tingled, as it
wooooof wooooof. Wof wof woooof woooooof woooooof wof wooooof, wf wf

were, like the air over intensely heated plates of iron. Beneath this
woof, woof wof wof woof wooooooof woooof woooof wf woof. Wooooof woof

atmospheric waving and curling, and partially beneath a thin layer of
wooooooooof woooof wof wooooof, wof wooooooof wooooof w woof wooof wf

water, also, the whales were swimming. Seen in advance of all the other
wooof, woof, wof woooof woof woooooof. Woof wf wooooof wf wof wof wooof

indications, the puffs of vapour they spouted, seemed their forerunning
wooooooooof, wof wooof wf woooof woof wooooof, woooof wooof wooooooooof

couriers and detached flying outriders.
woooooof wof woooooof woooof wooooooof.




All four boats were now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubled
Wof woof wooof woof wof wf woof wooooof wf woof wof woof wf woooooof

water and air. But it bade fair to outstrip them; it flew on and on,
wooof wof wof. Wof wf woof woof wf woooooof woof; wf woof wf wof wf,

as a mass of interblending bubbles borne down a rapid stream from the
wf w woof wf wooooooooooof wooooof wooof woof w wooof woooof woof wof

hills.
wooof.




"Pull, pull, my good boys," said Starbuck, in the lowest possible but
"Woof, woof, wf woof woof," woof Woooooof, wf wof woooof woooooof wof

intensest concentrated whisper to his men; while the sharp fixed glance
wooooooof woooooooooof wooooof wf wof wof; wooof wof wooof wooof woooof

from his eyes darted straight ahead of the bow, almost seemed as two
woof wof woof woooof woooooof wooof wf wof wof, woooof woooof wf wof

visible needles in two unerring binnacle compasses. He did not say much
wooooof wooooof wf wof woooooof woooooof wooooooof. Wf wof wof wof woof

to his crew, though, nor did his crew say anything to him. Only the
wf wof woof, woooof, wof wof wof woof wof woooooof wf wof. Woof wof

silence of the boat was at intervals startlingly pierced by one of his
wooooof wf wof woof wof wf wooooooof wooooooooof wooooof wf wof wf wof

peculiar whispers, now harsh with command, now soft with entreaty.
woooooof woooooof, wof wooof woof wooooof, wof woof woof woooooof.




How different the loud little King-Post. "Sing out and say something,
Wof wooooooof wof woof woooof Woof-Woof. "Woof wof wof wof wooooooof,

my hearties. Roar and pull, my thunderbolts! Beach me, beach me on their
wf woooooof. Woof wof woof, wf woooooooooof! Wooof wf, wooof wf wf wooof

black backs, boys; only do that for me, and I'll sign over to you my
wooof wooof, woof; woof wf woof wof wf, wof W'wf woof woof wf wof wf

Martha's Vineyard plantation, boys; including wife and children, boys.
Woooof'w Woooooof woooooooof, woof; wooooooof woof wof woooooof, woof.

Lay me on--lay me on! O Lord, Lord! but I shall go stark, staring mad!
Wof wf wf--wof wf wf! W Woof, Woof! wof W wooof wf wooof, wooooof wof!

See! see that white water!" And so shouting, he pulled his hat from his
Wof! wof woof wooof wooof!" Wof wf woooooof, wf woooof wof wof woof wof

head, and stamped up and down on it; then picking it up, flirted it far
woof, wof wooooof wf wof woof wf wf; woof wooooof wf wf, wooooof wf wof

off upon the sea; and finally fell to rearing and plunging in the boat's
wof woof wof wof; wof wooooof woof wf wooooof wof woooooof wf wof woof'w

stern like a crazed colt from the prairie.
wooof woof w woooof woof woof wof wooooof.




"Look at that chap now," philosophically drawled Stubb, who, with his
"Woof wf woof woof wof," wooooooooooooof wooooof Wooof, wof, woof wof

unlighted short pipe, mechanically retained between his teeth, at a
wooooooof wooof woof, woooooooooof woooooof wooooof wof wooof, wf w

short distance, followed after--"He's got fits, that Flask has. Fits?
wooof woooooof, woooooof wooof--"Wf'w wof woof, woof Wooof wof. Woof?

yes, give him fits--that's the very word--pitch fits into 'em. Merrily,
wof, woof wof woof--woof'w wof woof woof--wooof woof woof 'wf. Wooooof,

merrily, hearts-alive. Pudding for supper, you know;--merry's the word.
wooooof, woooof-wooof. Wooooof wof woooof, wof woof;--wooof'w wof woof.

Pull, babes--pull, sucklings--pull, all. But what the devil are you
Woof, wooof--woof, wooooooof--woof, wof. Wof woof wof wooof wof wof

hurrying about? Softly, softly, and steadily, my men. Only pull, and
woooooof wooof? Woooof, woooof, wof woooooof, wf wof. Woof woof, wof

keep pulling; nothing more. Crack all your backbones, and bite your
woof wooooof; wooooof woof. Wooof wof woof wooooooof, wof woof woof

knives in two--that's all. Take it easy--why don't ye take it easy, I
woooof wf wof--woof'w wof. Woof wf woof--wof wof'w wf woof wf woof, W

say, and burst all your livers and lungs!"
wof, wof wooof wof woof woooof wof wooof!"




But what it was that inscrutable Ahab said to that tiger-yellow crew of
Wof woof wf wof woof wooooooooof Woof woof wf woof wooof-woooof woof wf

his--these were words best omitted here; for you live under the blessed
wof--wooof woof wooof woof wooooof woof; wof wof woof wooof wof wooooof

light of the evangelical land. Only the infidel sharks in the audacious
wooof wf wof wooooooooof woof. Woof wof wooooof woooof wf wof wooooooof

seas may give ear to such words, when, with tornado brow, and eyes of
woof wof woof wof wf woof wooof, woof, woof wooooof woof, wof woof wf

red murder, and foam-glued lips, Ahab leaped after his prey.
wof woooof, wof woof-wooof woof, Woof woooof wooof wof woof.




Meanwhile, all the boats tore on. The repeated specific allusions of
Wooooooof, wof wof wooof woof wf. Wof woooooof woooooof wooooooof wf

Flask to "that whale," as he called the fictitious monster which
Wooof wf "woof wooof," wf wf woooof wof woooooooof wooooof wooof

he declared to be incessantly tantalizing his boat's bow with its
wf woooooof wf wf wooooooooof wooooooooof wof woof'w wof woof wof

tail--these allusions of his were at times so vivid and life-like, that
woof--wooof wooooooof wf wof woof wf wooof wf wooof wof woof-woof, woof

they would cause some one or two of his men to snatch a fearful look
woof wooof wooof woof wof wf wof wf wof wof wf woooof w wooooof woof

over the shoulder. But this was against all rule; for the oarsmen
woof wof woooooof. Wof woof wof wooooof wof woof; wof wof wooooof

must put out their eyes, and ram a skewer through their necks; usage
woof wof wof wooof woof, wof wof w woooof wooooof wooof wooof; wooof

pronouncing that they must have no organs but ears, and no limbs but
wooooooooof woof woof woof woof wf woooof wof woof, wof wf wooof wof

arms, in these critical moments.
woof, wf wooof woooooof wooooof.




It was a sight full of quick wonder and awe! The vast swells of the
Wf wof w wooof woof wf wooof woooof wof wof! Wof woof woooof wf wof

omnipotent sea; the surging, hollow roar they made, as they rolled along
woooooooof wof; wof wooooof, woooof woof woof woof, wf woof woooof wooof

the eight gunwales, like gigantic bowls in a boundless bowling-green;
wof wooof woooooof, woof woooooof wooof wf w wooooooof wooooof-wooof;

the brief suspended agony of the boat, as it would tip for an instant on
wof wooof wooooooof wooof wf wof woof, wf wf wooof wof wof wf wooooof wf

the knife-like edge of the sharper waves, that almost seemed threatening
wof wooof-woof woof wf wof wooooof wooof, woof woooof woooof wooooooooof

to cut it in two; the sudden profound dip into the watery glens and
wf wof wf wf wof; wof woooof woooooof wof woof wof woooof wooof wof

hollows; the keen spurrings and goadings to gain the top of the opposite
wooooof; wof woof wooooooof wof woooooof wf woof wof wof wf wof woooooof

hill; the headlong, sled-like slide down its other side;--all these,
woof; wof woooooof, woof-woof wooof woof wof wooof woof;--wof wooof,

with the cries of the headsmen and harpooneers, and the shuddering gasps
woof wof wooof wf wof woooooof wof wooooooooof, wof wof woooooooof wooof

of the oarsmen, with the wondrous sight of the ivory Pequod bearing
wf wof wooooof, woof wof woooooof wooof wf wof wooof Woooof wooooof

down upon her boats with outstretched sails, like a wild hen after her
woof woof wof wooof woof woooooooooof wooof, woof w woof wof wooof wof

screaming brood;--all this was thrilling.
wooooooof wooof;--wof woof wof wooooooof.




Not the raw recruit, marching from the bosom of his wife into the fever
Wof wof wof wooooof, woooooof woof wof wooof wf wof woof woof wof wooof

heat of his first battle; not the dead man's ghost encountering the
woof wf wof wooof woooof; wof wof woof wof'w wooof woooooooooof wof

first unknown phantom in the other world;--neither of these can feel
wooof wooooof wooooof wf wof wooof wooof;--wooooof wf wooof wof woof

stranger and stronger emotions than that man does, who for the first
woooooof wof woooooof woooooof woof woof wof woof, wof wof wof wooof

time finds himself pulling into the charmed, churned circle of the
woof wooof wooooof wooooof woof wof wooooof, wooooof woooof wf wof

hunted sperm whale.
woooof wooof wooof.




The dancing white water made by the chase was now becoming more and more
Wof wooooof wooof wooof woof wf wof wooof wof wof woooooof woof wof woof

visible, owing to the increasing darkness of the dun cloud-shadows
wooooof, wooof wf wof woooooooof woooooof wf wof wof wooof-wooooof

flung upon the sea. The jets of vapour no longer blended, but tilted
wooof woof wof wof. Wof woof wf woooof wf woooof wooooof, wof woooof

everywhere to right and left; the whales seemed separating their wakes.
woooooooof wf wooof wof woof; wof woooof woooof woooooooof wooof wooof.

The boats were pulled more apart; Starbuck giving chase to three whales
Wof wooof woof woooof woof wooof; Woooooof woooof wooof wf wooof woooof

running dead to leeward. Our sail was now set, and, with the still
wooooof woof wf wooooof. Wof woof wof wof wof, wof, woof wof wooof

rising wind, we rushed along; the boat going with such madness through
woooof woof, wf woooof wooof; wof woof wooof woof woof wooooof wooooof

the water, that the lee oars could scarcely be worked rapidly enough to
wof wooof, woof wof wof woof wooof woooooof wf woooof wooooof woooof wf

escape being torn from the row-locks.
woooof wooof woof woof wof wof-wooof.




Soon we were running through a suffusing wide veil of mist; neither ship
Woof wf woof wooooof wooooof w wooooooof woof woof wf woof; wooooof woof

nor boat to be seen.
wof woof wf wf woof.




"Give way, men," whispered Starbuck, drawing still further aft the sheet
"Woof wof, wof," wooooooof Woooooof, wooooof wooof wooooof wof wof wooof

of his sail; "there is time to kill a fish yet before the squall comes.
wf wof woof; "wooof wf woof wf woof w woof wof woooof wof woooof wooof.

There's white water again!--close to! Spring!"
Wooof'w wooof wooof wooof!--wooof wf! Woooof!"




Soon after, two cries in quick succession on each side of us denoted
Woof wooof, wof wooof wf wooof woooooooof wf woof woof wf wf wooooof

that the other boats had got fast; but hardly were they overheard, when
woof wof wooof wooof wof wof woof; wof woooof woof woof wooooooof, woof

with a lightning-like hurtling whisper Starbuck said: "Stand up!" and
woof w wooooooof-woof woooooof wooooof Woooooof woof: "Wooof wf!" wof

Queequeg, harpoon in hand, sprang to his feet.
Woooooof, wooooof wf woof, woooof wf wof woof.




Though not one of the oarsmen was then facing the life and death peril
Woooof wof wof wf wof wooooof wof woof woooof wof woof wof wooof wooof

so close to them ahead, yet with their eyes on the intense countenance
wf wooof wf woof wooof, wof woof wooof woof wf wof wooooof wooooooooof

of the mate in the stern of the boat, they knew that the imminent
wf wof woof wf wof wooof wf wof woof, woof woof woof wof woooooof

instant had come; they heard, too, an enormous wallowing sound as of
wooooof wof woof; woof wooof, wof, wf woooooof wooooooof wooof wf wf

fifty elephants stirring in their litter. Meanwhile the boat was still
wooof wooooooof woooooof wf wooof woooof. Wooooooof wof woof wof wooof

booming through the mist, the waves curling and hissing around us like
wooooof wooooof wof woof, wof wooof wooooof wof wooooof woooof wf woof

the erected crests of enraged serpents.
wof wooooof woooof wf wooooof woooooof.




"That's his hump. THERE, THERE, give it to him!" whispered Starbuck.
"Woof'w wof woof. WOOOF, WOOOF, woof wf wf wof!" wooooooof Woooooof.




A short rushing sound leaped out of the boat; it was the darted iron of
W wooof wooooof wooof woooof wof wf wof woof; wf wof wof woooof woof wf

Queequeg. Then all in one welded commotion came an invisible push from
Woooooof. Woof wof wf wof woooof wooooooof woof wf wooooooof woof woof

astern, while forward the boat seemed striking on a ledge; the sail
woooof, wooof wooooof wof woof woooof woooooof wf w wooof; wof woof

collapsed and exploded; a gush of scalding vapour shot up near by;
wooooooof wof woooooof; w woof wf woooooof woooof woof wf woof wf;

something rolled and tumbled like an earthquake beneath us. The whole
wooooooof woooof wof wooooof woof wf woooooooof wooooof wf. Wof wooof

crew were half suffocated as they were tossed helter-skelter into the
woof woof woof woooooooof wf woof woof woooof woooof-wooooof woof wof

white curdling cream of the squall. Squall, whale, and harpoon had all
wooof woooooof wooof wf wof woooof. Woooof, wooof, wof wooooof wof wof

blended together; and the whale, merely grazed by the iron, escaped.
wooooof woooooof; wof wof wooof, woooof woooof wf wof woof, wooooof.




Though completely swamped, the boat was nearly unharmed. Swimming round
Woooof woooooooof wooooof, wof woof wof woooof woooooof. Woooooof wooof

it we picked up the floating oars, and lashing them across the gunwale,
wf wf woooof wf wof woooooof woof, wof wooooof woof woooof wof wooooof,

tumbled back to our places. There we sat up to our knees in the sea, the
wooooof woof wf wof woooof. Wooof wf wof wf wf wof wooof wf wof wof, wof

water covering every rib and plank, so that to our downward gazing eyes
wooof woooooof wooof wof wof wooof, wf woof wf wof woooooof woooof woof

the suspended craft seemed a coral boat grown up to us from the bottom
wof wooooooof wooof woooof w wooof woof wooof wf wf wf woof wof woooof

of the ocean.
wf wof wooof.




The wind increased to a howl; the waves dashed their bucklers together;
Wof woof wooooooof wf w woof; wof wooof woooof wooof woooooof woooooof;

the whole squall roared, forked, and crackled around us like a white
wof wooof woooof woooof, woooof, wof woooooof woooof wf woof w wooof

fire upon the prairie, in which, unconsumed, we were burning; immortal
woof woof wof wooooof, wf wooof, woooooooof, wf woof wooooof; woooooof

in these jaws of death! In vain we hailed the other boats; as well roar
wf wooof woof wf wooof! Wf woof wf woooof wof wooof wooof; wf woof woof

to the live coals down the chimney of a flaming furnace as hail those
wf wof woof wooof woof wof wooooof wf w wooooof wooooof wf woof wooof

boats in that storm. Meanwhile the driving scud, rack, and mist, grew
wooof wf woof wooof. Wooooooof wof wooooof woof, woof, wof woof, woof

darker with the shadows of night; no sign of the ship could be seen.
woooof woof wof wooooof wf wooof; wf woof wf wof woof wooof wf woof.

The rising sea forbade all attempts to bale out the boat. The oars were
Wof woooof wof wooooof wof woooooof wf woof wof wof woof. Wof woof woof

useless as propellers, performing now the office of life-preservers.
wooooof wf woooooooof, woooooooof wof wof woooof wf woof-woooooooof.

So, cutting the lashing of the waterproof match keg, after many failures
Wf, wooooof wof wooooof wf wof woooooooof wooof wof, wooof woof woooooof

Starbuck contrived to ignite the lamp in the lantern; then stretching
Woooooof wooooooof wf woooof wof woof wf wof wooooof; woof woooooooof

it on a waif pole, handed it to Queequeg as the standard-bearer of this
wf wf w woof woof, woooof wf wf Woooooof wf wof woooooof-woooof wf woof

forlorn hope. There, then, he sat, holding up that imbecile candle in
wooooof woof. Wooof, woof, wf wof, wooooof wf woof woooooof woooof wf

the heart of that almighty forlornness. There, then, he sat, the sign
wof wooof wf woof woooooof wooooooooof. Wooof, woof, wf wof, wof woof

and symbol of a man without faith, hopelessly holding up hope in the
wof woooof wf w wof wooooof wooof, woooooooof wooooof wf woof wf wof

midst of despair.
wooof wf wooooof.




Wet, drenched through, and shivering cold, despairing of ship or boat,
Wof, woooooof wooooof, wof wooooooof woof, woooooooof wf woof wf woof,

we lifted up our eyes as the dawn came on. The mist still spread over
wf woooof wf wof woof wf wof woof woof wf. Wof woof wooof woooof woof

the sea, the empty lantern lay crushed in the bottom of the boat.
wof wof, wof wooof wooooof wof wooooof wf wof woooof wf wof woof.

Suddenly Queequeg started to his feet, hollowing his hand to his ear.
Woooooof Woooooof wooooof wf wof woof, wooooooof wof woof wf wof wof.

We all heard a faint creaking, as of ropes and yards hitherto muffled by
Wf wof wooof w wooof woooooof, wf wf wooof wof wooof woooooof wooooof wf

the storm. The sound came nearer and nearer; the thick mists were dimly
wof wooof. Wof wooof woof woooof wof woooof; wof wooof wooof woof wooof

parted by a huge, vague form. Affrighted, we all sprang into the sea as
woooof wf w woof, wooof woof. Woooooooof, wf wof woooof woof wof wof wf

the ship at last loomed into view, bearing right down upon us within a
wof woof wf woof woooof woof woof, wooooof wooof woof woof wf woooof w

distance of not much more than its length.
woooooof wf wof woof woof woof wof woooof.




Floating on the waves we saw the abandoned boat, as for one instant it
Woooooof wf wof wooof wf wof wof wooooooof woof, wf wof wof wooooof wf

tossed and gaped beneath the ship's bows like a chip at the base of a
woooof wof wooof wooooof wof woof'w woof woof w woof wf wof woof wf w

cataract; and then the vast hull rolled over it, and it was seen no
woooooof; wof woof wof woof woof woooof woof wf, wof wf wof woof wf

more till it came up weltering astern. Again we swam for it, were dashed
woof woof wf woof wf wooooooof woooof. Wooof wf woof wof wf, woof woooof

against it by the seas, and were at last taken up and safely landed on
wooooof wf wf wof woof, wof woof wf woof wooof wf wof woooof woooof wf

board. Ere the squall came close to, the other boats had cut loose from
wooof. Wof wof woooof woof wooof wf, wof wooof wooof wof wof wooof woof

their fish and returned to the ship in good time. The ship had given us
wooof woof wof woooooof wf wof woof wf woof woof. Wof woof wof wooof wf

up, but was still cruising, if haply it might light upon some token of
wf, wof wof wooof woooooof, wf wooof wf wooof wooof woof woof wooof wf

our perishing,--an oar or a lance pole.
wof wooooooof,--wf wof wf w wooof woof.










CHAPTER 49. The Hyena.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Wooof.







There are certain queer times and occasions in this strange mixed affair
Wooof wof wooooof wooof wooof wof wooooooof wf woof wooooof wooof woooof

we call life when a man takes this whole universe for a vast practical
wf woof woof woof w wof wooof woof wooof woooooof wof w woof wooooooof

joke, though the wit thereof he but dimly discerns, and more than
woof, woooof wof wof wooooof wf wof wooof woooooof, wof woof woof

suspects that the joke is at nobody's expense but his own. However,
woooooof woof wof woof wf wf woooof'w wooooof wof wof wof. Wooooof,

nothing dispirits, and nothing seems worth while disputing. He bolts
wooooof wooooooof, wof wooooof wooof wooof wooof wooooooof. Wf wooof

down all events, all creeds, and beliefs, and persuasions, all hard
woof wof woooof, wof woooof, wof wooooof, wof wooooooooof, wof woof

things visible and invisible, never mind how knobby; as an ostrich of
woooof wooooof wof wooooooof, wooof woof wof woooof; wf wf wooooof wf

potent digestion gobbles down bullets and gun flints. And as for small
woooof wooooooof wooooof woof wooooof wof wof woooof. Wof wf wof wooof

difficulties and worryings, prospects of sudden disaster, peril of
woooooooooof wof wooooooof, wooooooof wf woooof woooooof, wooof wf

life and limb; all these, and death itself, seem to him only sly,
woof wof woof; wof wooof, wof wooof woooof, woof wf wof woof wof,

good-natured hits, and jolly punches in the side bestowed by the unseen
woof-wooooof woof, wof wooof wooooof wf wof woof woooooof wf wof woooof

and unaccountable old joker. That odd sort of wayward mood I am speaking
wof wooooooooooof wof wooof. Woof wof woof wf wooooof woof W wf woooooof

of, comes over a man only in some time of extreme tribulation; it comes
wf, wooof woof w wof woof wf woof woof wf wooooof wooooooooof; wf wooof

in the very midst of his earnestness, so that what just before might
wf wof woof wooof wf wof wooooooooof, wf woof woof woof woooof wooof

have seemed to him a thing most momentous, now seems but a part of the
woof woooof wf wof w wooof woof wooooooof, wof wooof wof w woof wf wof

general joke. There is nothing like the perils of whaling to breed this
wooooof woof. Wooof wf wooooof woof wof woooof wf wooooof wf wooof woof

free and easy sort of genial, desperado philosophy; and with it I now
woof wof woof woof wf woooof, wooooooof woooooooof; wof woof wf W wof

regarded this whole voyage of the Pequod, and the great White Whale its
woooooof woof wooof woooof wf wof Woooof, wof wof wooof Wooof Wooof wof

object.
woooof.




"Queequeg," said I, when they had dragged me, the last man, to the deck,
"Woooooof," woof W, woof woof wof wooooof wf, wof woof wof, wf wof woof,

and I was still shaking myself in my jacket to fling off the water;
wof W wof wooof wooooof woooof wf wf woooof wf wooof wof wof wooof;

"Queequeg, my fine friend, does this sort of thing often happen?"
"Woooooof, wf woof woooof, woof woof woof wf wooof wooof woooof?"

Without much emotion, though soaked through just like me, he gave me to
Wooooof woof wooooof, woooof woooof wooooof woof woof wf, wf woof wf wf

understand that such things did often happen.
woooooooof woof woof woooof wof wooof woooof.




"Mr. Stubb," said I, turning to that worthy, who, buttoned up in his
"Wf. Wooof," woof W, wooooof wf woof woooof, wof, woooooof wf wf wof

oil-jacket, was now calmly smoking his pipe in the rain; "Mr. Stubb, I
wof-woooof, wof wof woooof wooooof wof woof wf wof woof; "Wf. Wooof, W

think I have heard you say that of all whalemen you ever met, our chief
wooof W woof wooof wof wof woof wf wof woooooof wof woof wof, wof wooof

mate, Mr. Starbuck, is by far the most careful and prudent. I suppose
woof, Wf. Woooooof, wf wf wof wof woof wooooof wof wooooof. W wooooof

then, that going plump on a flying whale with your sail set in a foggy
woof, woof wooof wooof wf w woooof wooof woof woof woof wof wf w wooof

squall is the height of a whaleman's discretion?"
woooof wf wof woooof wf w woooooof'w woooooooof?"




"Certain. I've lowered for whales from a leaking ship in a gale off Cape
"Wooooof. W'wf wooooof wof woooof woof w wooooof woof wf w woof wof Woof

Horn."
Woof."




"Mr. Flask," said I, turning to little King-Post, who was standing close
"Wf. Wooof," woof W, wooooof wf woooof Woof-Woof, wof wof woooooof wooof

by; "you are experienced in these things, and I am not. Will you tell
wf; "wof wof wooooooooof wf wooof woooof, wof W wf wof. Woof wof woof

me whether it is an unalterable law in this fishery, Mr. Flask, for an
wf wooooof wf wf wf wooooooooof wof wf woof wooooof, Wf. Wooof, wof wf

oarsman to break his own back pulling himself back-foremost into death's
wooooof wf wooof wof wof woof wooooof wooooof woof-woooooof woof wooof'w

jaws?"
woof?"




"Can't you twist that smaller?" said Flask. "Yes, that's the law.
"Wof'w wof wooof woof wooooof?" woof Wooof. "Wof, woof'w wof wof.

I should like to see a boat's crew backing water up to a whale face
W woooof woof wf wof w woof'w woof wooooof wooof wf wf w wooof woof

foremost. Ha, ha! the whale would give them squint for squint, mind
woooooof. Wf, wf! wof wooof wooof woof woof woooof wof woooof, woof

that!"
woof!"




Here then, from three impartial witnesses, I had a deliberate statement
Woof woof, woof wooof wooooooof wooooooof, W wof w woooooooof wooooooof

of the entire case. Considering, therefore, that squalls and capsizings
wf wof woooof woof. Wooooooooof, wooooooof, woof wooooof wof woooooooof

in the water and consequent bivouacks on the deep, were matters
wf wof wooof wof woooooooof wooooooof wf wof woof, woof wooooof

of common occurrence in this kind of life; considering that at the
wf woooof woooooooof wf woof woof wf woof; wooooooooof woof wf wof

superlatively critical instant of going on to the whale I must resign my
wooooooooooof woooooof wooooof wf wooof wf wf wof wooof W woof woooof wf

life into the hands of him who steered the boat--oftentimes a fellow who
woof woof wof wooof wf wof wof wooooof wof woof--woooooooof w woooof wof

at that very moment is in his impetuousness upon the point of scuttling
wf woof woof woooof wf wf wof wooooooooooof woof wof wooof wf wooooooof

the craft with his own frantic stampings; considering that the
wof wooof woof wof wof wooooof wooooooof; wooooooooof woof wof

particular disaster to our own particular boat was chiefly to be imputed
woooooooof woooooof wf wof wof woooooooof woof wof wooooof wf wf wooooof

to Starbuck's driving on to his whale almost in the teeth of a squall,
wf Woooooof'w wooooof wf wf wof wooof woooof wf wof wooof wf w woooof,

and considering that Starbuck, notwithstanding, was famous for his
wof wooooooooof woof Woooooof, wooooooooooooof, wof woooof wof wof

great heedfulness in the fishery; considering that I belonged to this
wooof wooooooooof wf wof wooooof; wooooooooof woof W woooooof wf woof

uncommonly prudent Starbuck's boat; and finally considering in what a
woooooooof wooooof Woooooof'w woof; wof wooooof wooooooooof wf woof w

devil's chase I was implicated, touching the White Whale: taking all
wooof'w wooof W wof woooooooof, woooooof wof Wooof Wooof: woooof wof

things together, I say, I thought I might as well go below and make a
woooof woooooof, W wof, W wooooof W wooof wf woof wf wooof wof woof w

rough draft of my will. "Queequeg," said I, "come along, you shall be my
wooof wooof wf wf woof. "Woooooof," woof W, "woof wooof, wof wooof wf wf

lawyer, executor, and legatee."
woooof, woooooof, wof wooooof."




It may seem strange that of all men sailors should be tinkering at their
Wf wof woof wooooof woof wf wof wof wooooof woooof wf wooooooof wf wooof

last wills and testaments, but there are no people in the world more
woof wooof wof woooooooof, wof wooof wof wf woooof wf wof wooof woof

fond of that diversion. This was the fourth time in my nautical life
woof wf woof wooooooof. Woof wof wof woooof woof wf wf woooooof woof

that I had done the same thing. After the ceremony was concluded upon
woof W wof woof wof woof wooof. Wooof wof woooooof wof wooooooof woof

the present occasion, I felt all the easier; a stone was rolled away
wof wooooof woooooof, W woof wof wof woooof; w wooof wof woooof woof

from my heart. Besides, all the days I should now live would be as good
woof wf wooof. Wooooof, wof wof woof W woooof wof woof wooof wf wf woof

as the days that Lazarus lived after his resurrection; a supplementary
wf wof woof woof Wooooof wooof wooof wof woooooooooof; w wooooooooooof

clean gain of so many months or weeks as the case might be. I survived
wooof woof wf wf woof woooof wf wooof wf wof woof wooof wf. W woooooof

myself; my death and burial were locked up in my chest. I looked
woooof; wf wooof wof woooof woof woooof wf wf wf wooof. W woooof

round me tranquilly and contentedly, like a quiet ghost with a clean
wooof wf woooooooof wof wooooooooof, woof w wooof wooof woof w wooof

conscience sitting inside the bars of a snug family vault.
woooooooof wooooof woooof wof woof wf w woof woooof wooof.




Now then, thought I, unconsciously rolling up the sleeves of my frock,
Wof woof, wooooof W, wooooooooooof wooooof wf wof wooooof wf wf wooof,

here goes for a cool, collected dive at death and destruction, and the
woof woof wof w woof, wooooooof woof wf wooof wof wooooooooof, wof wof

devil fetch the hindmost.
wooof wooof wof woooooof.










CHAPTER 50. Ahab's Boat and Crew. Fedallah.
WOOOOOF wf. Woof'w Woof wof Woof. Woooooof.







"Who would have thought it, Flask!" cried Stubb; "if I had but one leg
"Wof wooof woof wooooof wf, Wooof!" wooof Wooof; "wf W wof wof wof wof

you would not catch me in a boat, unless maybe to stop the plug-hole
wof wooof wof wooof wf wf w woof, woooof wooof wf woof wof woof-woof

with my timber toe. Oh! he's a wonderful old man!"
woof wf woooof wof. Wf! wf'w w wooooooof wof wof!"




"I don't think it so strange, after all, on that account," said Flask.
"W wof'w wooof wf wf wooooof, wooof wof, wf woof wooooof," woof Wooof.

"If his leg were off at the hip, now, it would be a different thing.
"Wf wof wof woof wof wf wof wof, wof, wf wooof wf w wooooooof wooof.

That would disable him; but he has one knee, and good part of the other
Woof wooof wooooof wof; wof wf wof wof woof, wof woof woof wf wof wooof

left, you know."
woof, wof woof."




"I don't know that, my little man; I never yet saw him kneel."
"W wof'w woof woof, wf woooof wof; W wooof wof wof wof wooof."







Among whale-wise people it has often been argued whether, considering
Wooof wooof-woof woooof wf wof wooof woof woooof wooooof, wooooooooof

the paramount importance of his life to the success of the voyage, it is
wof wooooooof woooooooof wf wof woof wf wof wooooof wf wof woooof, wf wf

right for a whaling captain to jeopardize that life in the active perils
wooof wof w wooooof wooooof wf woooooooof woof woof wf wof woooof woooof

of the chase. So Tamerlane's soldiers often argued with tears in their
wf wof wooof. Wf Wooooooof'w woooooof wooof woooof woof wooof wf wooof

eyes, whether that invaluable life of his ought to be carried into the
woof, wooooof woof woooooooof woof wf wof wooof wf wf wooooof woof wof

thickest of the fight.
woooooof wf wof wooof.




But with Ahab the question assumed a modified aspect. Considering
Wof woof Woof wof woooooof wooooof w woooooof woooof. Wooooooooof

that with two legs man is but a hobbling wight in all times of danger;
woof woof wof woof wof wf wof w woooooof wooof wf wof wooof wf woooof;

considering that the pursuit of whales is always under great and
wooooooooof woof wof wooooof wf woooof wf woooof wooof wooof wof

extraordinary difficulties; that every individual moment, indeed, then
wooooooooooof woooooooooof; woof wooof woooooooof woooof, woooof, woof

comprises a peril; under these circumstances is it wise for any
wooooooof w wooof; wooof wooof wooooooooooof wf wf woof wof wof

maimed man to enter a whale-boat in the hunt? As a general thing, the
woooof wof wf wooof w wooof-woof wf wof woof? Wf w wooooof wooof, wof

joint-owners of the Pequod must have plainly thought not.
wooof-woooof wf wof Woooof woof woof wooooof wooooof wof.




Ahab well knew that although his friends at home would think little of
Woof woof woof woof woooooof wof wooooof wf woof wooof wooof woooof wf

his entering a boat in certain comparatively harmless vicissitudes of
wof woooooof w woof wf wooooof wooooooooooof woooooof woooooooooof wf

the chase, for the sake of being near the scene of action and giving
wof wooof, wof wof woof wf wooof woof wof wooof wf woooof wof woooof

his orders in person, yet for Captain Ahab to have a boat actually
wof woooof wf woooof, wof wof Wooooof Woof wf woof w woof woooooof

apportioned to him as a regular headsman in the hunt--above all for
wooooooooof wf wof wf w wooooof woooooof wf wof woof--wooof wof wof

Captain Ahab to be supplied with five extra men, as that same boat's
Wooooof Woof wf wf woooooof woof woof wooof wof, wf woof woof woof'w

crew, he well knew that such generous conceits never entered the heads
woof, wf woof woof woof woof woooooof woooooof wooof wooooof wof wooof

of the owners of the Pequod. Therefore he had not solicited a boat's
wf wof woooof wf wof Woooof. Wooooooof wf wof wof wooooooof w woof'w

crew from them, nor had he in any way hinted his desires on that head.
woof woof woof, wof wof wf wf wof wof woooof wof wooooof wf woof woof.

Nevertheless he had taken private measures of his own touching all
Woooooooooof wf wof wooof wooooof woooooof wf wof wof woooooof wof

that matter. Until Cabaco's published discovery, the sailors had little
woof woooof. Wooof Woooof'w wooooooof wooooooof, wof wooooof wof woooof

foreseen it, though to be sure when, after being a little while out
woooooof wf, woooof wf wf woof woof, wooof wooof w woooof wooof wof

of port, all hands had concluded the customary business of fitting the
wf woof, wof wooof wof wooooooof wof wooooooof woooooof wf wooooof wof

whaleboats for service; when some time after this Ahab was now and then
woooooooof wof wooooof; woof woof woof wooof woof Woof wof wof wof woof

found bestirring himself in the matter of making thole-pins with his
wooof woooooooof wooooof wf wof woooof wf woooof wooof-woof woof wof

own hands for what was thought to be one of the spare boats, and even
wof wooof wof woof wof wooooof wf wf wof wf wof wooof wooof, wof woof

solicitously cutting the small wooden skewers, which when the line is
woooooooooof wooooof wof wooof woooof wooooof, wooof woof wof woof wf

running out are pinned over the groove in the bow: when all this was
wooooof wof wof woooof woof wof woooof wf wof wof: woof wof woof wof

observed in him, and particularly his solicitude in having an extra
woooooof wf wof, wof woooooooooof wof woooooooof wf woooof wf wooof

coat of sheathing in the bottom of the boat, as if to make it better
woof wf wooooooof wf wof woooof wf wof woof, wf wf wf woof wf woooof

withstand the pointed pressure of his ivory limb; and also the anxiety
wooooooof wof wooooof woooooof wf wof wooof woof; wof woof wof wooooof

he evinced in exactly shaping the thigh board, or clumsy cleat, as it is
wf wooooof wf wooooof wooooof wof wooof wooof, wf woooof wooof, wf wf wf

sometimes called, the horizontal piece in the boat's bow for bracing the
wooooooof woooof, wof woooooooof wooof wf wof woof'w wof wof wooooof wof

knee against in darting or stabbing at the whale; when it was observed
woof wooooof wf wooooof wf woooooof wf wof wooof; woof wf wof woooooof

how often he stood up in that boat with his solitary knee fixed in the
wof wooof wf wooof wf wf woof woof woof wof woooooof woof wooof wf wof

semi-circular depression in the cleat, and with the carpenter's chisel
woof-woooooof woooooooof wf wof wooof, wof woof wof wooooooof'w woooof

gouged out a little here and straightened it a little there; all these
woooof wof w woooof woof wof woooooooooof wf w woooof wooof; wof wooof

things, I say, had awakened much interest and curiosity at the time. But
woooof, W wof, wof woooooof woof woooooof wof wooooooof wf wof woof. Wof

almost everybody supposed that this particular preparative heedfulness
woooof wooooooof woooooof woof woof woooooooof wooooooooof wooooooooof

in Ahab must only be with a view to the ultimate chase of Moby Dick;
wf Woof woof woof wf woof w woof wf wof woooooof wooof wf Woof Woof;

for he had already revealed his intention to hunt that mortal monster
wof wf wof wooooof woooooof wof wooooooof wf woof woof woooof wooooof

in person. But such a supposition did by no means involve the remotest
wf woooof. Wof woof w wooooooooof wof wf wf wooof wooooof wof woooooof

suspicion as to any boat's crew being assigned to that boat.
wooooooof wf wf wof woof'w woof wooof woooooof wf woof woof.




Now, with the subordinate phantoms, what wonder remained soon waned
Wof, woof wof wooooooooof woooooof, woof woooof woooooof woof wooof

away; for in a whaler wonders soon wane. Besides, now and then such
woof; wof wf w woooof wooooof woof woof. Wooooof, wof wof woof woof

unaccountable odds and ends of strange nations come up from the unknown
wooooooooooof woof wof woof wf wooooof wooooof woof wf woof wof wooooof

nooks and ash-holes of the earth to man these floating outlaws of
wooof wof wof-wooof wf wof wooof wf wof wooof woooooof wooooof wf

whalers; and the ships themselves often pick up such queer castaway
wooooof; wof wof wooof woooooooof wooof woof wf woof wooof woooooof

creatures found tossing about the open sea on planks, bits of wreck,
wooooooof wooof wooooof wooof wof woof wof wf woooof, woof wf wooof,

oars, whaleboats, canoes, blown-off Japanese junks, and what not; that
woof, woooooooof, woooof, wooof-wof Woooooof wooof, wof woof wof; woof

Beelzebub himself might climb up the side and step down into the cabin
Wooooooof wooooof wooof wooof wf wof woof wof woof woof woof wof wooof

to chat with the captain, and it would not create any unsubduable
wf woof woof wof wooooof, wof wf wooof wof woooof wof wooooooooof

excitement in the forecastle.
woooooooof wf wof woooooooof.




But be all this as it may, certain it is that while the subordinate
Wof wf wof woof wf wf wof, wooooof wf wf woof wooof wof wooooooooof

phantoms soon found their place among the crew, though still as it were
woooooof woof wooof wooof wooof wooof wof woof, woooof wooof wf wf woof

somehow distinct from them, yet that hair-turbaned Fedallah remained
wooooof woooooof woof woof, wof woof woof-woooooof Woooooof woooooof

a muffled mystery to the last. Whence he came in a mannerly world like
w wooooof wooooof wf wof woof. Woooof wf woof wf w woooooof wooof woof

this, by what sort of unaccountable tie he soon evinced himself to be
woof, wf woof woof wf wooooooooooof wof wf woof wooooof wooooof wf wf

linked with Ahab's peculiar fortunes; nay, so far as to have some sort
woooof woof Woof'w woooooof woooooof; wof, wf wof wf wf woof woof woof

of a half-hinted influence; Heaven knows, but it might have been even
wf w woof-woooof wooooooof; Woooof wooof, wof wf wooof woof woof woof

authority over him; all this none knew. But one cannot sustain
wooooooof woof wof; wof woof woof woof. Wof wof woooof wooooof

an indifferent air concerning Fedallah. He was such a creature as
wf wooooooooof wof woooooooof Woooooof. Wf wof woof w woooooof wf

civilized, domestic people in the temperate zone only see in their
wooooooof, woooooof woooof wf wof wooooooof woof woof wof wf wooof

dreams, and that but dimly; but the like of whom now and then glide
woooof, wof woof wof wooof; wof wof woof wf woof wof wof woof wooof

among the unchanging Asiatic communities, especially the Oriental isles
wooof wof woooooooof Wooooof wooooooooof, woooooooof wof Woooooof wooof

to the east of the continent--those insulated, immemorial, unalterable
wf wof woof wf wof wooooooof--wooof wooooooof, woooooooof, wooooooooof

countries, which even in these modern days still preserve much of the
wooooooof, wooof woof wf wooof woooof woof wooof woooooof woof wf wof

ghostly aboriginalness of earth's primal generations, when the memory of
wooooof woooooooooooof wf wooof'w woooof wooooooooof, woof wof woooof wf

the first man was a distinct recollection, and all men his descendants,
wof wooof wof wof w woooooof woooooooooof, wof wof wof wof wooooooooof,

unknowing whence he came, eyed each other as real phantoms, and asked of
wooooooof woooof wf woof, woof woof wooof wf woof woooooof, wof wooof wf

the sun and the moon why they were created and to what end; when though,
wof wof wof wof woof wof woof woof wooooof wof wf woof wof; woof woooof,

according to Genesis, the angels indeed consorted with the daughters of
wooooooof wf Wooooof, wof woooof woooof wooooooof woof wof wooooooof wf

men, the devils also, add the uncanonical Rabbins, indulged in mundane
wof, wof woooof woof, wof wof wooooooooof Wooooof, woooooof wf wooooof

amours.
woooof.










CHAPTER 51. The Spirit-Spout.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Woooof-Wooof.







Days, weeks passed, and under easy sail, the ivory Pequod had slowly
Woof, wooof woooof, wof wooof woof woof, wof wooof Woooof wof woooof

swept across four several cruising-grounds; that off the Azores; off the
wooof woooof woof wooooof woooooof-wooooof; woof wof wof Woooof; wof wof

Cape de Verdes; on the Plate (so called), being off the mouth of the
Woof wf Woooof; wf wof Wooof (wf woooof), wooof wof wof wooof wf wof

Rio de la Plata; and the Carrol Ground, an unstaked, watery locality,
Wof wf wf Wooof; wof wof Woooof Woooof, wf woooooof, woooof woooooof,

southerly from St. Helena.
wooooooof woof Wf. Woooof.




It was while gliding through these latter waters that one serene and
Wf wof wooof wooooof wooooof wooof woooof woooof woof wof woooof wof

moonlight night, when all the waves rolled by like scrolls of silver;
wooooooof wooof, woof wof wof wooof woooof wf woof wooooof wf woooof;

and, by their soft, suffusing seethings, made what seemed a silvery
wof, wf wooof woof, wooooooof wooooooof, woof woof woooof w wooooof

silence, not a solitude; on such a silent night a silvery jet was seen
wooooof, wof w woooooof; wf woof w woooof wooof w wooooof wof wof woof

far in advance of the white bubbles at the bow. Lit up by the moon, it
wof wf wooooof wf wof wooof wooooof wf wof wof. Wof wf wf wof woof, wf

looked celestial; seemed some plumed and glittering god uprising from
woooof wooooooof; woooof woof woooof wof woooooooof wof woooooof woof

the sea. Fedallah first descried this jet. For of these moonlight
wof wof. Woooooof wooof woooooof woof wof. Wof wf wooof wooooooof

nights, it was his wont to mount to the main-mast head, and stand a
woooof, wf wof wof woof wf wooof wf wof woof-woof woof, wof wooof w

look-out there, with the same precision as if it had been day. And yet,
woof-wof wooof, woof wof woof wooooooof wf wf wf wof woof wof. Wof wof,

though herds of whales were seen by night, not one whaleman in a hundred
woooof wooof wf woooof woof woof wf wooof, wof wof woooooof wf w wooooof

would venture a lowering for them. You may think with what emotions,
wooof wooooof w woooooof wof woof. Wof wof wooof woof woof woooooof,

then, the seamen beheld this old Oriental perched aloft at such unusual
woof, wof woooof woooof woof wof Woooooof wooooof wooof wf woof wooooof

hours; his turban and the moon, companions in one sky. But when, after
wooof; wof woooof wof wof woof, woooooooof wf wof wof. Wof woof, wooof

spending his uniform interval there for several successive nights
woooooof wof wooooof woooooof wooof wof wooooof woooooooof woooof

without uttering a single sound; when, after all this silence, his
wooooof woooooof w woooof wooof; woof, wooof wof woof wooooof, wof

unearthly voice was heard announcing that silvery, moon-lit jet, every
wooooooof wooof wof wooof woooooooof woof wooooof, woof-wof wof, wooof

reclining mariner started to his feet as if some winged spirit had
wooooooof wooooof wooooof wf wof woof wf wf woof woooof woooof wof

lighted in the rigging, and hailed the mortal crew. "There she blows!"
wooooof wf wof wooooof, wof woooof wof woooof woof. "Wooof wof wooof!"

Had the trump of judgment blown, they could not have quivered more; yet
Wof wof wooof wf woooooof wooof, woof wooof wof woof woooooof woof; wof

still they felt no terror; rather pleasure. For though it was a most
wooof woof woof wf woooof; woooof woooooof. Wof woooof wf wof w woof

unwonted hour, yet so impressive was the cry, and so deliriously
woooooof woof, wof wf woooooooof wof wof wof, wof wf wooooooooof

exciting, that almost every soul on board instinctively desired a
woooooof, woof woooof wooof woof wf wooof wooooooooooof wooooof w

lowering.
woooooof.




Walking the deck with quick, side-lunging strides, Ahab commanded the
Wooooof wof woof woof wooof, woof-wooooof wooooof, Woof wooooooof wof

t'gallant sails and royals to be set, and every stunsail spread. The
w'wooooof wooof wof woooof wf wf wof, wof wooof woooooof woooof. Wof

best man in the ship must take the helm. Then, with every mast-head
woof wof wf wof woof woof woof wof woof. Woof, woof wooof woof-woof

manned, the piled-up craft rolled down before the wind. The strange,
woooof, wof wooof-wf wooof woooof woof woooof wof woof. Wof wooooof,

upheaving, lifting tendency of the taffrail breeze filling the hollows
wooooooof, wooooof woooooof wf wof woooooof woooof wooooof wof wooooof

of so many sails, made the buoyant, hovering deck to feel like air
wf wf woof wooof, woof wof wooooof, woooooof woof wf woof woof wof

beneath the feet; while still she rushed along, as if two antagonistic
wooooof wof woof; wooof wooof wof woooof wooof, wf wf wof woooooooooof

influences were struggling in her--one to mount direct to heaven, the
woooooooof woof woooooooof wf wof--wof wf wooof woooof wf woooof, wof

other to drive yawingly to some horizontal goal. And had you watched
wooof wf wooof woooooof wf woof woooooooof woof. Wof wof wof wooooof

Ahab's face that night, you would have thought that in him also two
Woof'w woof woof wooof, wof wooof woof wooooof woof wf wof woof wof

different things were warring. While his one live leg made lively echoes
wooooooof woooof woof wooooof. Wooof wof wof woof wof woof woooof woooof

along the deck, every stroke of his dead limb sounded like a coffin-tap.
wooof wof woof, wooof woooof wf wof woof woof wooooof woof w woooof-wof.

On life and death this old man walked. But though the ship so swiftly
Wf woof wof wooof woof wof wof woooof. Wof woooof wof woof wf wooooof

sped, and though from every eye, like arrows, the eager glances shot,
woof, wof woooof woof wooof wof, woof woooof, wof wooof wooooof woof,

yet the silvery jet was no more seen that night. Every sailor swore he
wof wof wooooof wof wof wf woof woof woof wooof. Wooof woooof wooof wf

saw it once, but not a second time.
wof wf woof, wof wof w woooof woof.




This midnight-spout had almost grown a forgotten thing, when, some days
Woof woooooof-wooof wof woooof wooof w wooooooof wooof, woof, woof woof

after, lo! at the same silent hour, it was again announced: again it
wooof, wf! wf wof woof woooof woof, wf wof wooof wooooooof: wooof wf

was descried by all; but upon making sail to overtake it, once more it
wof woooooof wf wof; wof woof woooof woof wf woooooof wf, woof woof wf

disappeared as if it had never been. And so it served us night after
wooooooooof wf wf wf wof wooof woof. Wof wf wf woooof wf wooof wooof

night, till no one heeded it but to wonder at it. Mysteriously
wooof, woof wf wof woooof wf wof wf woooof wf wf. Woooooooooof

jetted into the clear moonlight, or starlight, as the case might be;
woooof woof wof wooof wooooooof, wf wooooooof, wf wof woof wooof wf;

disappearing again for one whole day, or two days, or three; and somehow
woooooooooof wooof wof wof wooof wof, wf wof woof, wf wooof; wof wooooof

seeming at every distinct repetition to be advancing still further and
wooooof wf wooof woooooof woooooooof wf wf wooooooof wooof wooooof wof

further in our van, this solitary jet seemed for ever alluring us on.
wooooof wf wof wof, woof woooooof wof woooof wof woof woooooof wf wf.




Nor with the immemorial superstition of their race, and in accordance
Wof woof wof woooooooof woooooooooof wf wooof woof, wof wf woooooooof

with the preternaturalness, as it seemed, which in many things invested
woof wof wooooooooooooooof, wf wf woooof, wooof wf woof woooof woooooof

the Pequod, were there wanting some of the seamen who swore that
wof Woooof, woof wooof wooooof woof wf wof woooof wof wooof woof

whenever and wherever descried; at however remote times, or in however
woooooof wof woooooof woooooof; wf wooooof woooof wooof, wf wf wooooof

far apart latitudes and longitudes, that unnearable spout was cast
wof wooof wooooooof wof woooooooof, woof woooooooof wooof wof woof

by one self-same whale; and that whale, Moby Dick. For a time, there
wf wof woof-woof wooof; wof woof wooof, Woof Woof. Wof w woof, wooof

reigned, too, a sense of peculiar dread at this flitting apparition,
wooooof, wof, w wooof wf woooooof wooof wf woof woooooof woooooooof,

as if it were treacherously beckoning us on and on, in order that the
wf wf wf woof wooooooooooof wooooooof wf wf wof wf, wf wooof woof wof

monster might turn round upon us, and rend us at last in the remotest
wooooof wooof woof wooof woof wf, wof woof wf wf woof wf wof woooooof

and most savage seas.
wof woof woooof woof.




These temporary apprehensions, so vague but so awful, derived a wondrous
Wooof wooooooof wooooooooooof, wf wooof wof wf wooof, wooooof w woooooof

potency from the contrasting serenity of the weather, in which, beneath
wooooof woof wof wooooooooof woooooof wf wof wooooof, wf wooof, wooooof

all its blue blandness, some thought there lurked a devilish charm, as
wof wof woof wooooooof, woof wooooof wooof woooof w woooooof wooof, wf

for days and days we voyaged along, through seas so wearily, lonesomely
wof woof wof woof wf wooooof wooof, wooooof woof wf wooooof, woooooooof

mild, that all space, in repugnance to our vengeful errand, seemed
woof, woof wof wooof, wf woooooooof wf wof woooooof woooof, woooof

vacating itself of life before our urn-like prow.
woooooof woooof wf woof woooof wof wof-woof woof.




But, at last, when turning to the eastward, the Cape winds began howling
Wof, wf woof, woof wooooof wf wof woooooof, wof Woof wooof wooof wooooof

around us, and we rose and fell upon the long, troubled seas that are
woooof wf, wof wf woof wof woof woof wof woof, woooooof woof woof wof

there; when the ivory-tusked Pequod sharply bowed to the blast, and
wooof; woof wof wooof-woooof Woooof wooooof wooof wf wof wooof, wof

gored the dark waves in her madness, till, like showers of silver chips,
wooof wof woof wooof wf wof wooooof, woof, woof wooooof wf woooof wooof,

the foam-flakes flew over her bulwarks; then all this desolate vacuity
wof woof-woooof woof woof wof woooooof; woof wof woof woooooof wooooof

of life went away, but gave place to sights more dismal than before.
wf woof woof woof, wof woof wooof wf woooof woof woooof woof woooof.




Close to our bows, strange forms in the water darted hither and thither
Wooof wf wof woof, wooooof wooof wf wof wooof woooof woooof wof wooooof

before us; while thick in our rear flew the inscrutable sea-ravens. And
woooof wf; wooof wooof wf wof woof woof wof wooooooooof wof-woooof. Wof

every morning, perched on our stays, rows of these birds were seen; and
wooof wooooof, wooooof wf wof wooof, woof wf wooof wooof woof woof; wof

spite of our hootings, for a long time obstinately clung to the hemp,
wooof wf wof woooooof, wof w woof woof wooooooooof wooof wf wof woof,

as though they deemed our ship some drifting, uninhabited craft; a thing
wf woooof woof woooof wof woof woof woooooof, wooooooooof wooof; w wooof

appointed to desolation, and therefore fit roosting-place for their
wooooooof wf woooooooof, wof wooooooof wof woooooof-wooof wof wooof

homeless selves. And heaved and heaved, still unrestingly heaved the
woooooof woooof. Wof woooof wof woooof, wooof wooooooooof woooof wof

black sea, as if its vast tides were a conscience; and the great mundane
wooof wof, wf wf wof woof wooof woof w woooooooof; wof wof wooof wooooof

soul were in anguish and remorse for the long sin and suffering it had
woof woof wf wooooof wof wooooof wof wof woof wof wof wooooooof wf wof

bred.
woof.




Cape of Good Hope, do they call ye? Rather Cape Tormentoto, as called
Woof wf Woof Woof, wf woof woof wf? Woooof Woof Woooooooof, wf woooof

of yore; for long allured by the perfidious silences that before had
wf woof; wof woof wooooof wf wof woooooooof woooooof woof woooof wof

attended us, we found ourselves launched into this tormented sea,
woooooof wf, wf wooof wooooooof woooooof woof woof wooooooof wof,

where guilty beings transformed into those fowls and these fish, seemed
wooof woooof woooof wooooooooof woof wooof wooof wof wooof woof, woooof

condemned to swim on everlastingly without any haven in store, or beat
wooooooof wf woof wf wooooooooooof wooooof wof wooof wf wooof, wf woof

that black air without any horizon. But calm, snow-white, and unvarying;
woof wooof wof wooooof wof wooooof. Wof woof, woof-wooof, wof wooooooof;

still directing its fountain of feathers to the sky; still beckoning us
wooof wooooooof wof woooooof wf woooooof wf wof wof; wooof wooooooof wf

on from before, the solitary jet would at times be descried.
wf woof woooof, wof woooooof wof wooof wf wooof wf woooooof.




During all this blackness of the elements, Ahab, though assuming for the
Woooof wof woof wooooooof wf wof woooooof, Woof, woooof woooooof wof wof

time the almost continual command of the drenched and dangerous deck,
woof wof woooof wooooooof wooooof wf wof woooooof wof wooooooof woof,

manifested the gloomiest reserve; and more seldom than ever addressed
woooooooof wof wooooooof wooooof; wof woof woooof woof woof wooooooof

his mates. In tempestuous times like these, after everything above and
wof wooof. Wf wooooooooof wooof woof wooof, wooof woooooooof wooof wof

aloft has been secured, nothing more can be done but passively to await
wooof wof woof wooooof, wooooof woof wof wf woof wof wooooooof wf wooof

the issue of the gale. Then Captain and crew become practical fatalists.
wof wooof wf wof woof. Woof Wooooof wof woof woooof wooooooof wooooooof.

So, with his ivory leg inserted into its accustomed hole, and with one
Wf, woof wof wooof wof woooooof woof wof woooooooof woof, wof woof wof

hand firmly grasping a shroud, Ahab for hours and hours would stand
woof woooof woooooof w woooof, Woof wof wooof wof wooof wooof wooof

gazing dead to windward, while an occasional squall of sleet or snow
woooof woof wf woooooof, wooof wf woooooooof woooof wf wooof wf woof

would all but congeal his very eyelashes together. Meantime, the crew
wooof wof wof wooooof wof woof wooooooof woooooof. Woooooof, wof woof

driven from the forward part of the ship by the perilous seas that
woooof woof wof wooooof woof wf wof woof wf wof woooooof woof woof

burstingly broke over its bows, stood in a line along the bulwarks in
woooooooof wooof woof wof woof, wooof wf w woof wooof wof woooooof wf

the waist; and the better to guard against the leaping waves, each man
wof wooof; wof wof woooof wf wooof wooooof wof wooooof wooof, woof wof

had slipped himself into a sort of bowline secured to the rail, in which
wof wooooof wooooof woof w woof wf wooooof wooooof wf wof woof, wf wooof

he swung as in a loosened belt. Few or no words were spoken; and the
wf wooof wf wf w woooooof woof. Wof wf wf wooof woof woooof; wof wof

silent ship, as if manned by painted sailors in wax, day after day tore
woooof woof, wf wf woooof wf wooooof wooooof wf wof, wof wooof wof woof

on through all the swift madness and gladness of the demoniac waves.
wf wooooof wof wof wooof wooooof wof woooooof wf wof woooooof wooof.

By night the same muteness of humanity before the shrieks of the
Wf wooof wof woof woooooof wf woooooof woooof wof wooooof wf wof

ocean prevailed; still in silence the men swung in the bowlines; still
wooof wooooooof; wooof wf wooooof wof wof wooof wf wof woooooof; wooof

wordless Ahab stood up to the blast. Even when wearied nature seemed
woooooof Woof wooof wf wf wof wooof. Woof woof wooooof woooof woooof

demanding repose he would not seek that repose in his hammock. Never
wooooooof woooof wf wooof wof woof woof woooof wf wof wooooof. Wooof

could Starbuck forget the old man's aspect, when one night going down
wooof Woooooof woooof wof wof wof'w woooof, woof wof wooof wooof woof

into the cabin to mark how the barometer stood, he saw him with
woof wof wooof wf woof wof wof wooooooof wooof, wf wof wof woof

closed eyes sitting straight in his floor-screwed chair; the rain
woooof woof wooooof woooooof wf wof wooof-wooooof wooof; wof woof

and half-melted sleet of the storm from which he had some time before
wof woof-woooof wooof wf wof wooof woof wooof wf wof woof woof woooof

emerged, still slowly dripping from the unremoved hat and coat. On the
wooooof, wooof woooof woooooof woof wof wooooooof wof wof woof. Wf wof

table beside him lay unrolled one of those charts of tides and currents
wooof woooof wof wof woooooof wof wf wooof woooof wf wooof wof woooooof

which have previously been spoken of. His lantern swung from his tightly
wooof woof woooooooof woof woooof wf. Wof wooooof wooof woof wof wooooof

clenched hand. Though the body was erect, the head was thrown back so
woooooof woof. Woooof wof woof wof wooof, wof woof wof woooof woof wf

that the closed eyes were pointed towards the needle of the tell-tale
woof wof woooof woof woof wooooof wooooof wof woooof wf wof woof-woof

that swung from a beam in the ceiling.*
woof wooof woof w woof wf wof wooooof.*







*The cabin-compass is called the tell-tale, because without going to the
*Wof wooof-wooooof wf woooof wof woof-woof, wooooof wooooof wooof wf wof

compass at the helm, the Captain, while below, can inform himself of the
wooooof wf wof woof, wof Wooooof, wooof wooof, wof woooof wooooof wf wof

course of the ship.
woooof wf wof woof.







Terrible old man! thought Starbuck with a shudder, sleeping in this
Woooooof wof wof! wooooof Woooooof woof w wooooof, woooooof wf woof

gale, still thou steadfastly eyest thy purpose.
woof, wooof woof wooooooooof wooof wof wooooof.










CHAPTER 52. The Albatross.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Wooooooof.







South-eastward from the Cape, off the distant Crozetts, a good cruising
Wooof-woooooof woof wof Woof, wof wof wooooof Woooooof, w woof woooooof

ground for Right Whalemen, a sail loomed ahead, the Goney (Albatross)
woooof wof Wooof Woooooof, w woof woooof wooof, wof Wooof (Wooooooof)

by name. As she slowly drew nigh, from my lofty perch at the
wf woof. Wf wof woooof woof woof, woof wf wooof wooof wf wof

fore-mast-head, I had a good view of that sight so remarkable to a tyro
woof-woof-woof, W wof w woof woof wf woof wooof wf woooooooof wf w woof

in the far ocean fisheries--a whaler at sea, and long absent from home.
wf wof wof wooof wooooooof--w woooof wf wof, wof woof woooof woof woof.




As if the waves had been fullers, this craft was bleached like the
Wf wf wof wooof wof woof wooooof, woof wooof wof woooooof woof wof

skeleton of a stranded walrus. All down her sides, this spectral
woooooof wf w woooooof woooof. Wof woof wof wooof, woof woooooof

appearance was traced with long channels of reddened rust, while all her
woooooooof wof woooof woof woof woooooof wf woooooof woof, wooof wof wof

spars and her rigging were like the thick branches of trees furred over
wooof wof wof wooooof woof woof wof wooof woooooof wf wooof woooof woof

with hoar-frost. Only her lower sails were set. A wild sight it was to
woof woof-wooof. Woof wof wooof wooof woof wof. W woof wooof wf wof wf

see her long-bearded look-outs at those three mast-heads. They seemed
wof wof woof-wooooof woof-woof wf wooof wooof woof-wooof. Woof woooof

clad in the skins of beasts, so torn and bepatched the raiment that had
woof wf wof wooof wf woooof, wf woof wof wooooooof wof wooooof woof wof

survived nearly four years of cruising. Standing in iron hoops nailed to
woooooof woooof woof wooof wf woooooof. Woooooof wf woof wooof woooof wf

the mast, they swayed and swung over a fathomless sea; and though, when
wof woof, woof woooof wof wooof woof w woooooooof wof; wof woooof, woof

the ship slowly glided close under our stern, we six men in the air
wof woof woooof woooof wooof wooof wof wooof, wf wof wof wf wof wof

came so nigh to each other that we might almost have leaped from the
woof wf woof wf woof wooof woof wf wooof woooof woof woooof woof wof

mast-heads of one ship to those of the other; yet, those forlorn-looking
woof-wooof wf wof woof wf wooof wf wof wooof; wof, wooof wooooof-wooooof

fishermen, mildly eyeing us as they passed, said not one word to our own
wooooooof, woooof woooof wf wf woof woooof, woof wof wof woof wf wof wof

look-outs, while the quarter-deck hail was being heard from below.
woof-woof, wooof wof wooooof-woof woof wof wooof wooof woof wooof.




"Ship ahoy! Have ye seen the White Whale?"
"Woof woof! Woof wf woof wof Wooof Wooof?"




But as the strange captain, leaning over the pallid bulwarks, was in the
Wof wf wof wooooof wooooof, wooooof woof wof woooof woooooof, wof wf wof

act of putting his trumpet to his mouth, it somehow fell from his hand
wof wf wooooof wof wooooof wf wof wooof, wf wooooof woof woof wof woof

into the sea; and the wind now rising amain, he in vain strove to make
woof wof wof; wof wof woof wof woooof wooof, wf wf woof woooof wf woof

himself heard without it. Meantime his ship was still increasing the
wooooof wooof wooooof wf. Woooooof wof woof wof wooof woooooooof wof

distance between. While in various silent ways the seamen of the Pequod
woooooof wooooof. Wooof wf wooooof woooof woof wof woooof wf wof Woooof

were evincing their observance of this ominous incident at the first
woof woooooof wooof woooooooof wf woof wooooof woooooof wf wof wooof

mere mention of the White Whale's name to another ship, Ahab for a
woof wooooof wf wof Wooof Wooof'w woof wf wooooof woof, Woof wof w

moment paused; it almost seemed as though he would have lowered a boat
woooof woooof; wf woooof woooof wf woooof wf wooof woof wooooof w woof

to board the stranger, had not the threatening wind forbade. But taking
wf wooof wof woooooof, wof wof wof wooooooooof woof wooooof. Wof woooof

advantage of his windward position, he again seized his trumpet, and
wooooooof wf wof woooooof woooooof, wf wooof woooof wof wooooof, wof

knowing by her aspect that the stranger vessel was a Nantucketer and
wooooof wf wof woooof woof wof woooooof woooof wof w Wooooooooof wof

shortly bound home, he loudly hailed--"Ahoy there! This is the Pequod,
wooooof wooof woof, wf woooof woooof--"Woof wooof! Woof wf wof Woooof,

bound round the world! Tell them to address all future letters to the
wooof wooof wof wooof! Woof woof wf wooooof wof woooof wooooof wf wof

Pacific ocean! and this time three years, if I am not at home, tell them
Wooooof wooof! wof woof woof wooof wooof, wf W wf wof wf woof, woof woof

to address them to--"
wf wooooof woof wf--"




At that moment the two wakes were fairly crossed, and instantly, then,
Wf woof woooof wof wof wooof woof woooof wooooof, wof wooooooof, woof,

in accordance with their singular ways, shoals of small harmless fish,
wf woooooooof woof wooof woooooof woof, woooof wf wooof woooooof woof,

that for some days before had been placidly swimming by our side, darted
woof wof woof woof woooof wof woof woooooof woooooof wf wof woof, woooof

away with what seemed shuddering fins, and ranged themselves fore and
woof woof woof woooof woooooooof woof, wof woooof woooooooof woof wof

aft with the stranger's flanks. Though in the course of his continual
wof woof wof woooooof'w woooof. Woooof wf wof woooof wf wof wooooooof

voyagings Ahab must often before have noticed a similar sight, yet, to
wooooooof Woof woof wooof woooof woof wooooof w wooooof wooof, wof, wf

any monomaniac man, the veriest trifles capriciously carry meanings.
wof woooooooof wof, wof wooooof wooooof woooooooooof wooof woooooof.




"Swim away from me, do ye?" murmured Ahab, gazing over into the water.
"Woof woof woof wf, wf wf?" woooooof Woof, woooof woof woof wof wooof.

There seemed but little in the words, but the tone conveyed more of deep
Wooof woooof wof woooof wf wof wooof, wof wof woof woooooof woof wf woof

helpless sadness than the insane old man had ever before evinced. But
woooooof wooooof woof wof woooof wof wof wof woof woooof wooooof. Wof

turning to the steersman, who thus far had been holding the ship in the
wooooof wf wof wooooooof, wof woof wof wof woof wooooof wof woof wf wof

wind to diminish her headway, he cried out in his old lion voice,--"Up
woof wf woooooof wof wooooof, wf wooof wof wf wof wof woof wooof,--"Wf

helm! Keep her off round the world!"
woof! Woof wof wof wooof wof wooof!"




Round the world! There is much in that sound to inspire proud feelings;
Wooof wof wooof! Wooof wf woof wf woof wooof wf wooooof wooof woooooof;

but whereto does all that circumnavigation conduct? Only through
wof wooooof woof wof woof woooooooooooooof wooooof? Woof wooooof

numberless perils to the very point whence we started, where those that
woooooooof woooof wf wof woof wooof woooof wf wooooof, wooof wooof woof

we left behind secure, were all the time before us.
wf woof woooof woooof, woof wof wof woof woooof wf.




Were this world an endless plain, and by sailing eastward we could for
Woof woof wooof wf wooooof wooof, wof wf wooooof woooooof wf wooof wof

ever reach new distances, and discover sights more sweet and strange
woof wooof wof wooooooof, wof woooooof woooof woof wooof wof wooooof

than any Cyclades or Islands of King Solomon, then there were promise
woof wof Woooooof wf Wooooof wf Woof Wooooof, woof wooof woof wooooof

in the voyage. But in pursuit of those far mysteries we dream of, or in
wf wof woooof. Wof wf wooooof wf wooof wof wooooooof wf wooof wf, wf wf

tormented chase of that demon phantom that, some time or other, swims
wooooooof wooof wf woof wooof wooooof woof, woof woof wf wooof, wooof

before all human hearts; while chasing such over this round globe, they
woooof wof wooof woooof; wooof wooooof woof woof woof wooof wooof, woof

either lead us on in barren mazes or midway leave us whelmed.
woooof woof wf wf wf woooof wooof wf woooof wooof wf wooooof.










CHAPTER 53. The Gam.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Wof.







The ostensible reason why Ahab did not go on board of the whaler we had
Wof woooooooof woooof wof Woof wof wof wf wf wooof wf wof woooof wf wof

spoken was this: the wind and sea betokened storms. But even had
woooof wof woof: wof woof wof wof wooooooof woooof. Wof woof wof

this not been the case, he would not after all, perhaps, have boarded
woof wof woof wof woof, wf wooof wof wooof wof, wooooof, woof wooooof

her--judging by his subsequent conduct on similar occasions--if so it
wof--wooooof wf wof woooooooof wooooof wf wooooof wooooooof--wf wf wf

had been that, by the process of hailing, he had obtained a negative
wof woof woof, wf wof wooooof wf wooooof, wf wof woooooof w woooooof

answer to the question he put. For, as it eventually turned out, he
woooof wf wof woooooof wf wof. Wof, wf wf woooooooof woooof wof, wf

cared not to consort, even for five minutes, with any stranger captain,
wooof wof wf wooooof, woof wof woof wooooof, woof wof woooooof wooooof,

except he could contribute some of that information he so absorbingly
woooof wf wooof woooooooof woof wf woof wooooooooof wf wf wooooooooof

sought. But all this might remain inadequately estimated, were not
woooof. Wof wof woof wooof woooof woooooooooof wooooooof, woof wof

something said here of the peculiar usages of whaling-vessels when
wooooooof woof woof wf wof woooooof woooof wf wooooof-wooooof woof

meeting each other in foreign seas, and especially on a common
wooooof woof wooof wf wooooof woof, wof woooooooof wf w woooof

cruising-ground.
woooooof-woooof.




If two strangers crossing the Pine Barrens in New York State, or the
Wf wof wooooooof woooooof wof Woof Wooooof wf Wof Woof Wooof, wf wof

equally desolate Salisbury Plain in England; if casually encountering
wooooof woooooof Wooooooof Wooof wf Wooooof; wf woooooof woooooooooof

each other in such inhospitable wilds, these twain, for the life of
woof wooof wf woof woooooooooof wooof, wooof wooof, wof wof woof wf

them, cannot well avoid a mutual salutation; and stopping for a moment
woof, woooof woof wooof w woooof woooooooof; wof woooooof wof w woooof

to interchange the news; and, perhaps, sitting down for a while
wf wooooooooof wof woof; wof, wooooof, wooooof woof wof w wooof

and resting in concert: then, how much more natural that upon the
wof wooooof wf wooooof: woof, wof woof woof wooooof woof woof wof

illimitable Pine Barrens and Salisbury Plains of the sea, two whaling
wooooooooof Woof Wooooof wof Wooooooof Woooof wf wof wof, wof wooooof

vessels descrying each other at the ends of the earth--off lone
wooooof wooooooof woof wooof wf wof woof wf wof wooof--wof woof

Fanning's Island, or the far away King's Mills; how much more natural,
Wooooof'w Woooof, wf wof wof woof Woof'w Wooof; wof woof woof wooooof,

I say, that under such circumstances these ships should not only
W wof, woof wooof woof wooooooooooof wooof wooof woooof wof woof

interchange hails, but come into still closer, more friendly and
wooooooooof wooof, wof woof woof wooof woooof, woof woooooof wof

sociable contact. And especially would this seem to be a matter of
woooooof wooooof. Wof woooooooof wooof woof woof wf wf w woooof wf

course, in the case of vessels owned in one seaport, and whose captains,
woooof, wf wof woof wf wooooof wooof wf wof wooooof, wof wooof woooooof,

officers, and not a few of the men are personally known to each other;
woooooof, wof wof w wof wf wof wof wof woooooooof wooof wf woof wooof;

and consequently, have all sorts of dear domestic things to talk about.
wof woooooooooof, woof wof wooof wf woof woooooof woooof wf woof wooof.




For the long absent ship, the outward-bounder, perhaps, has letters on
Wof wof woof woooof woof, wof wooooof-wooooof, wooooof, wof wooooof wf

board; at any rate, she will be sure to let her have some papers of a
wooof; wf wof woof, wof woof wf woof wf wof wof woof woof woooof wf w

date a year or two later than the last one on her blurred and thumb-worn
woof w woof wf wof wooof woof wof woof wof wf wof wooooof wof wooof-woof

files. And in return for that courtesy, the outward-bound ship would
wooof. Wof wf woooof wof woof woooooof, wof wooooof-wooof woof wooof

receive the latest whaling intelligence from the cruising-ground to
wooooof wof woooof wooooof woooooooooof woof wof woooooof-woooof wf

which she may be destined, a thing of the utmost importance to her. And
wooof wof wof wf woooooof, w wooof wf wof woooof woooooooof wf wof. Wof

in degree, all this will hold true concerning whaling vessels crossing
wf woooof, wof woof woof woof woof woooooooof wooooof wooooof woooooof

each other's track on the cruising-ground itself, even though they
woof wooof'w wooof wf wof woooooof-woooof woooof, woof woooof woof

are equally long absent from home. For one of them may have received a
wof wooooof woof woooof woof woof. Wof wof wf woof wof woof woooooof w

transfer of letters from some third, and now far remote vessel; and
woooooof wf wooooof woof woof wooof, wof wof wof woooof woooof; wof

some of those letters may be for the people of the ship she now meets.
woof wf wooof wooooof wof wf wof wof woooof wf wof woof wof wof wooof.

Besides, they would exchange the whaling news, and have an agreeable
Wooooof, woof wooof woooooof wof wooooof woof, wof woof wf wooooooof

chat. For not only would they meet with all the sympathies of sailors,
woof. Wof wof woof wooof woof woof woof wof wof woooooooof wf wooooof,

but likewise with all the peculiar congenialities arising from a common
wof woooooof woof wof wof woooooof woooooooooooof wooooof woof w woooof

pursuit and mutually shared privations and perils.
wooooof wof woooooof woooof woooooooof wof woooof.




Nor would difference of country make any very essential difference;
Wof wooof woooooooof wf wooooof woof wof woof wooooooof woooooooof;

that is, so long as both parties speak one language, as is the case
woof wf, wf woof wf woof wooooof wooof wof woooooof, wf wf wof woof

with Americans and English. Though, to be sure, from the small number of
woof Wooooooof wof Wooooof. Woooof, wf wf woof, woof wof wooof woooof wf

English whalers, such meetings do not very often occur, and when they
Wooooof wooooof, woof woooooof wf wof woof wooof wooof, wof woof woof

do occur there is too apt to be a sort of shyness between them; for your
wf wooof wooof wf wof wof wf wf w woof wf wooooof wooooof woof; wof woof

Englishman is rather reserved, and your Yankee, he does not fancy that
Woooooooof wf woooof woooooof, wof woof Woooof, wf woof wof wooof woof

sort of thing in anybody but himself. Besides, the English whalers
woof wf wooof wf wooooof wof wooooof. Wooooof, wof Wooooof wooooof

sometimes affect a kind of metropolitan superiority over the American
wooooooof woooof w woof wf woooooooooof wooooooooof woof wof Woooooof

whalers; regarding the long, lean Nantucketer, with his nondescript
wooooof; wooooooof wof woof, woof Wooooooooof, woof wof wooooooooof

provincialisms, as a sort of sea-peasant. But where this superiority
woooooooooooof, wf w woof wf wof-wooooof. Wof wooof woof wooooooooof

in the English whalemen does really consist, it would be hard to say,
wf wof Wooooof woooooof woof woooof wooooof, wf wooof wf woof wf wof,

seeing that the Yankees in one day, collectively, kill more whales than
woooof woof wof Wooooof wf wof wof, woooooooooof, woof woof woooof woof

all the English, collectively, in ten years. But this is a harmless
wof wof Wooooof, woooooooooof, wf wof wooof. Wof woof wf w woooooof

little foible in the English whale-hunters, which the Nantucketer does
woooof woooof wf wof Wooooof wooof-wooooof, wooof wof Wooooooooof woof

not take much to heart; probably, because he knows that he has a few
wof woof woof wf wooof; woooooof, wooooof wf wooof woof wf wof w wof

foibles himself.
wooooof wooooof.




So, then, we see that of all ships separately sailing the sea, the
Wf, woof, wf wof woof wf wof wooof woooooooof wooooof wof wof, wof

whalers have most reason to be sociable--and they are so. Whereas, some
wooooof woof woof woooof wf wf woooooof--wof woof wof wf. Wooooof, woof

merchant ships crossing each other's wake in the mid-Atlantic, will
woooooof wooof woooooof woof wooof'w woof wf wof wof-Woooooof, woof

oftentimes pass on without so much as a single word of recognition,
woooooooof woof wf wooooof wf woof wf w woooof woof wf wooooooooof,

mutually cutting each other on the high seas, like a brace of dandies in
woooooof wooooof woof wooof wf wof woof woof, woof w wooof wf wooooof wf

Broadway; and all the time indulging, perhaps, in finical criticism upon
Woooooof; wof wof wof woof wooooooof, wooooof, wf wooooof wooooooof woof

each other's rig. As for Men-of-War, when they chance to meet at sea,
woof wooof'w wof. Wf wof Wof-wf-Wof, woof woof woooof wf woof wf wof,

they first go through such a string of silly bowings and scrapings, such
woof wooof wf wooooof woof w woooof wf wooof wooooof wof wooooooof, woof

a ducking of ensigns, that there does not seem to be much right-down
w wooooof wf wooooof, woof wooof woof wof woof wf wf woof wooof-woof

hearty good-will and brotherly love about it at all. As touching
woooof woof-woof wof wooooooof woof wooof wf wf wof. Wf woooooof

Slave-ships meeting, why, they are in such a prodigious hurry, they run
Wooof-wooof wooooof, wof, woof wof wf woof w woooooooof wooof, woof wof

away from each other as soon as possible. And as for Pirates, when they
woof woof woof wooof wf woof wf woooooof. Wof wf wof Wooooof, woof woof

chance to cross each other's cross-bones, the first hail is--"How many
woooof wf wooof woof wooof'w wooof-wooof, wof wooof woof wf--"Wof woof

skulls?"--the same way that whalers hail--"How many barrels?" And that
woooof?"--wof woof wof woof wooooof woof--"Wof woof wooooof?" Wof woof

question once answered, pirates straightway steer apart, for they are
woooooof woof woooooof, wooooof wooooooooof wooof wooof, wof woof wof

infernal villains on both sides, and don't like to see overmuch of each
woooooof woooooof wf woof wooof, wof wof'w woof wf wof woooooof wf woof

other's villanous likenesses.
wooof'w wooooooof woooooooof.




But look at the godly, honest, unostentatious, hospitable, sociable,
Wof woof wf wof wooof, woooof, woooooooooooof, woooooooof, woooooof,

free-and-easy whaler! What does the whaler do when she meets another
woof-wof-woof woooof! Woof woof wof woooof wf woof wof wooof wooooof

whaler in any sort of decent weather? She has a "GAM," a thing so
woooof wf wof woof wf woooof wooooof? Wof wof w "WOF," w wooof wf

utterly unknown to all other ships that they never heard of the name
wooooof wooooof wf wof wooof wooof woof woof wooof wooof wf wof woof

even; and if by chance they should hear of it, they only grin at it, and
woof; wof wf wf woooof woof woooof woof wf wf, woof woof woof wf wf, wof

repeat gamesome stuff about "spouters" and "blubber-boilers," and such
woooof woooooof wooof wooof "woooooof" wof "wooooof-wooooof," wof woof

like pretty exclamations. Why it is that all Merchant-seamen, and also
woof woooof woooooooooof. Wof wf wf woof wof Woooooof-woooof, wof woof

all Pirates and Man-of-War's men, and Slave-ship sailors, cherish such
wof Wooooof wof Wof-wf-Wof'w wof, wof Wooof-woof wooooof, wooooof woof

a scornful feeling towards Whale-ships; this is a question it would be
w woooooof wooooof wooooof Wooof-wooof; woof wf w woooooof wf wooof wf

hard to answer. Because, in the case of pirates, say, I should like to
woof wf woooof. Wooooof, wf wof woof wf wooooof, wof, W woooof woof wf

know whether that profession of theirs has any peculiar glory about
woof wooooof woof woooooooof wf woooof wof wof woooooof wooof wooof

it. It sometimes ends in uncommon elevation, indeed; but only at the
wf. Wf wooooooof woof wf woooooof wooooooof, woooof; wof woof wf wof

gallows. And besides, when a man is elevated in that odd fashion, he has
wooooof. Wof wooooof, woof w wof wf woooooof wf woof wof wooooof, wf wof

no proper foundation for his superior altitude. Hence, I conclude,
wf woooof woooooooof wof wof woooooof woooooof. Wooof, W woooooof,

that in boasting himself to be high lifted above a whaleman, in that
woof wf woooooof wooooof wf wf woof woooof wooof w woooooof, wf woof

assertion the pirate has no solid basis to stand on.
wooooooof wof woooof wof wf wooof wooof wf wooof wf.




But what is a GAM? You might wear out your index-finger running up and
Wof woof wf w WOF? Wof wooof woof wof woof wooof-woooof wooooof wf wof

down the columns of dictionaries, and never find the word. Dr. Johnson
woof wof wooooof wf woooooooooof, wof wooof woof wof woof. Wf. Wooooof

never attained to that erudition; Noah Webster's ark does not hold it.
wooof woooooof wf woof wooooooof; Woof Wooooof'w wof woof wof woof wf.

Nevertheless, this same expressive word has now for many years been in
Woooooooooof, woof woof woooooooof woof wof wof wof woof wooof woof wf

constant use among some fifteen thousand true born Yankees. Certainly,
woooooof wof wooof woof wooooof woooooof woof woof Wooooof. Wooooooof,

it needs a definition, and should be incorporated into the Lexicon. With
wf wooof w woooooooof, wof woooof wf woooooooooof woof wof Wooooof. Woof

that view, let me learnedly define it.
woof woof, wof wf wooooooof woooof wf.




GAM. NOUN--A SOCIAL MEETING OF TWO (OR MORE) WHALESHIPS, GENERALLY ON A
WOF. WOOF--W WOOOOF WOOOOOF WF WOF (WF WOOF) WOOOOOOOOF, WOOOOOOOF WF W

CRUISING-GROUND; WHEN, AFTER EXCHANGING HAILS, THEY EXCHANGE VISITS BY
WOOOOOOF-WOOOOF; WOOF, WOOOF WOOOOOOOOF WOOOF, WOOF WOOOOOOF WOOOOF WF

BOATS' CREWS; THE TWO CAPTAINS REMAINING, FOR THE TIME, ON BOARD OF ONE
WOOOF' WOOOF; WOF WOF WOOOOOOF WOOOOOOOF, WOF WOF WOOF, WF WOOOF WF WOF

SHIP, AND THE TWO CHIEF MATES ON THE OTHER.
WOOF, WOF WOF WOF WOOOF WOOOF WF WOF WOOOF.




There is another little item about Gamming which must not be forgotten
Wooof wf wooooof woooof woof wooof Wooooof wooof woof wof wf wooooooof

here. All professions have their own little peculiarities of detail; so
woof. Wof wooooooooof woof wooof wof woooof wooooooooooof wf woooof; wf

has the whale fishery. In a pirate, man-of-war, or slave ship, when
wof wof wooof wooooof. Wf w woooof, wof-wf-wof, wf wooof woof, woof

the captain is rowed anywhere in his boat, he always sits in the stern
wof wooooof wf wooof woooooof wf wof woof, wf woooof woof wf wof wooof

sheets on a comfortable, sometimes cushioned seat there, and often
woooof wf w wooooooooof, wooooooof wooooooof woof wooof, wof wooof

steers himself with a pretty little milliner's tiller decorated with
woooof wooooof woof w woooof woooof woooooof'w woooof wooooooof woof

gay cords and ribbons. But the whale-boat has no seat astern, no sofa of
wof wooof wof wooooof. Wof wof wooof-woof wof wf woof woooof, wf woof wf

that sort whatever, and no tiller at all. High times indeed, if whaling
woof woof woooooof, wof wf woooof wf wof. Woof wooof woooof, wf wooooof

captains were wheeled about the water on castors like gouty old aldermen
woooooof woof wooooof wooof wof wooof wf wooooof woof wooof wof woooooof

in patent chairs. And as for a tiller, the whale-boat never admits of
wf woooof woooof. Wof wf wof w woooof, wof wooof-woof wooof woooof wf

any such effeminacy; and therefore as in gamming a complete boat's crew
wof woof woooooooof; wof wooooooof wf wf wooooof w woooooof woof'w woof

must leave the ship, and hence as the boat steerer or harpooneer is of
woof wooof wof woof, wof wooof wf wof woof wooooof wf woooooooof wf wf

the number, that subordinate is the steersman upon the occasion, and
wof woooof, woof wooooooooof wf wof wooooooof woof wof woooooof, wof

the captain, having no place to sit in, is pulled off to his visit
wof wooooof, woooof wf wooof wf wof wf, wf woooof wof wf wof wooof

all standing like a pine tree. And often you will notice that being
wof woooooof woof w woof woof. Wof wooof wof woof woooof woof wooof

conscious of the eyes of the whole visible world resting on him from
wooooooof wf wof woof wf wof wooof wooooof wooof wooooof wf wof woof

the sides of the two ships, this standing captain is all alive to the
wof wooof wf wof wof wooof, woof woooooof wooooof wf wof wooof wf wof

importance of sustaining his dignity by maintaining his legs. Nor is
woooooooof wf woooooooof wof wooooof wf wooooooooof wof woof. Wof wf

this any very easy matter; for in his rear is the immense projecting
woof wof woof woof woooof; wof wf wof woof wf wof wooooof woooooooof

steering oar hitting him now and then in the small of his back, the
woooooof wof wooooof wof wof wof woof wf wof wooof wf wof woof, wof

after-oar reciprocating by rapping his knees in front. He is thus
wooof-wof wooooooooooof wf wooooof wof wooof wf wooof. Wf wf woof

completely wedged before and behind, and can only expand himself
woooooooof woooof woooof wof woooof, wof wof woof woooof wooooof

sideways by settling down on his stretched legs; but a sudden, violent
woooooof wf woooooof woof wf wof wooooooof woof; wof w woooof, wooooof

pitch of the boat will often go far to topple him, because length of
wooof wf wof woof woof wooof wf wof wf woooof wof, wooooof woooof wf

foundation is nothing without corresponding breadth. Merely make a
woooooooof wf wooooof wooooof wooooooooooof wooooof. Woooof woof w

spread angle of two poles, and you cannot stand them up. Then, again,
woooof wooof wf wof wooof, wof wof woooof wooof woof wf. Woof, wooof,

it would never do in plain sight of the world's riveted eyes, it would
wf wooof wooof wf wf wooof wooof wf wof wooof'w wooooof woof, wf wooof

never do, I say, for this straddling captain to be seen steadying
wooof wf, W wof, wof woof woooooooof wooooof wf wf woof wooooooof

himself the slightest particle by catching hold of anything with
wooooof wof wooooooof woooooof wf woooooof woof wf woooooof woof

his hands; indeed, as token of his entire, buoyant self-command, he
wof wooof; woooof, wf wooof wf wof woooof, wooooof woof-wooooof, wf

generally carries his hands in his trowsers' pockets; but perhaps being
wooooooof wooooof wof wooof wf wof woooooof' wooooof; wof wooooof wooof

generally very large, heavy hands, he carries them there for ballast.
wooooooof woof wooof, wooof wooof, wf wooooof woof wooof wof wooooof.

Nevertheless there have occurred instances, well authenticated ones too,
Woooooooooof wooof woof woooooof wooooooof, woof wooooooooooof woof wof,

where the captain has been known for an uncommonly critical moment or
wooof wof wooooof wof woof wooof wof wf woooooooof woooooof woooof wf

two, in a sudden squall say--to seize hold of the nearest oarsman's
wof, wf w woooof woooof wof--wf wooof woof wf wof wooooof wooooof'w

hair, and hold on there like grim death.
woof, wof woof wf wooof woof woof wooof.










CHAPTER 54. The Town-Ho's Story.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Woof-Wf'w Wooof.







(AS TOLD AT THE GOLDEN INN)
(WF WOOF WF WOF WOOOOF WOF)







The Cape of Good Hope, and all the watery region round about there, is
Wof Woof wf Woof Woof, wof wof wof woooof woooof wooof wooof wooof, wf

much like some noted four corners of a great highway, where you meet
woof woof woof wooof woof wooooof wf w wooof wooooof, wooof wof woof

more travellers than in any other part.
woof woooooooof woof wf wof wooof woof.




It was not very long after speaking the Goney that another
Wf wof wof woof woof wooof woooooof wof Wooof woof wooooof

homeward-bound whaleman, the Town-Ho,* was encountered. She was manned
woooooof-wooof woooooof, wof Woof-Wf,* wof wooooooooof. Wof wof woooof

almost wholly by Polynesians. In the short gam that ensued she gave
woooof woooof wf Wooooooooof. Wf wof wooof wof woof woooof wof woof

us strong news of Moby Dick. To some the general interest in the White
wf woooof woof wf Woof Woof. Wf woof wof wooooof woooooof wf wof Wooof

Whale was now wildly heightened by a circumstance of the Town-Ho's
Wooof wof wof woooof woooooooof wf w woooooooooof wf wof Woof-Wf'w

story, which seemed obscurely to involve with the whale a certain
wooof, wooof woooof wooooooof wf wooooof woof wof wooof w wooooof

wondrous, inverted visitation of one of those so called judgments of God
woooooof, woooooof woooooooof wf wof wf wooof wf woooof wooooooof wf Wof

which at times are said to overtake some men. This latter circumstance,
wooof wf wooof wof woof wf woooooof woof wof. Woof woooof woooooooooof,

with its own particular accompaniments, forming what may be called the
woof wof wof woooooooof woooooooooooof, wooooof woof wof wf woooof wof

secret part of the tragedy about to be narrated, never reached the ears
woooof woof wf wof wooooof wooof wf wf woooooof, wooof wooooof wof woof

of Captain Ahab or his mates. For that secret part of the story was
wf Wooooof Woof wf wof wooof. Wof woof woooof woof wf wof wooof wof

unknown to the captain of the Town-Ho himself. It was the private
wooooof wf wof wooooof wf wof Woof-Wf wooooof. Wf wof wof wooooof

property of three confederate white seamen of that ship, one of whom, it
woooooof wf wooof wooooooooof wooof woooof wf woof woof, wof wf woof, wf

seems, communicated it to Tashtego with Romish injunctions of secrecy,
wooof, woooooooooof wf wf Woooooof woof Woooof wooooooooof wf wooooof,

but the following night Tashtego rambled in his sleep, and revealed
wof wof wooooooof wooof Woooooof wooooof wf wof wooof, wof woooooof

so much of it in that way, that when he was wakened he could not well
wf woof wf wf wf woof wof, woof woof wf wof wooooof wf wooof wof woof

withhold the rest. Nevertheless, so potent an influence did this thing
woooooof wof woof. Woooooooooof, wf woooof wf wooooooof wof woof wooof

have on those seamen in the Pequod who came to the full knowledge of
woof wf wooof woooof wf wof Woooof wof woof wf wof woof wooooooof wf

it, and by such a strange delicacy, to call it so, were they governed in
wf, wof wf woof w wooooof woooooof, wf woof wf wf, woof woof woooooof wf

this matter, that they kept the secret among themselves so that it never
woof woooof, woof woof woof wof woooof wooof woooooooof wf woof wf wooof

transpired abaft the Pequod's main-mast. Interweaving in its proper
woooooooof wooof wof Woooof'w woof-woof. Woooooooooof wf wof woooof

place this darker thread with the story as publicly narrated on the
wooof woof woooof woooof woof wof wooof wf woooooof woooooof wf wof

ship, the whole of this strange affair I now proceed to put on lasting
woof, wof wooof wf woof wooooof woooof W wof wooooof wf wof wf wooooof

record.
woooof.







*The ancient whale-cry upon first sighting a whale from the mast-head,
*Wof wooooof wooof-wof woof wooof woooooof w wooof woof wof woof-woof,

still used by whalemen in hunting the famous Gallipagos terrapin.
wooof woof wf woooooof wf wooooof wof woooof Woooooooof woooooof.







For my humor's sake, I shall preserve the style in which I once narrated
Wof wf wooof'w woof, W wooof woooooof wof wooof wf wooof W woof woooooof

it at Lima, to a lounging circle of my Spanish friends, one saint's eve,
wf wf Woof, wf w woooooof woooof wf wf Wooooof wooooof, wof wooof'w wof,

smoking upon the thick-gilt tiled piazza of the Golden Inn. Of those
wooooof woof wof wooof-woof wooof woooof wf wof Woooof Wof. Wf wooof

fine cavaliers, the young Dons, Pedro and Sebastian, were on the closer
woof wooooooof, wof wooof Woof, Wooof wof Wooooooof, woof wf wof woooof

terms with me; and hence the interluding questions they occasionally
wooof woof wf; wof wooof wof wooooooooof wooooooof woof woooooooooof

put, and which are duly answered at the time.
wof, wof wooof wof woof woooooof wf wof woof.




"Some two years prior to my first learning the events which I am about
"Woof wof wooof wooof wf wf wooof woooooof wof woooof wooof W wf wooof

rehearsing to you, gentlemen, the Town-Ho, Sperm Whaler of Nantucket,
woooooooof wf wof, wooooooof, wof Woof-Wf, Wooof Woooof wf Wooooooof,

was cruising in your Pacific here, not very many days' sail eastward
wof woooooof wf woof Wooooof woof, wof woof woof woof' woof woooooof

from the eaves of this good Golden Inn. She was somewhere to the
woof wof wooof wf woof woof Woooof Wof. Wof wof wooooooof wf wof

northward of the Line. One morning upon handling the pumps, according to
wooooooof wf wof Woof. Wof wooooof woof woooooof wof wooof, wooooooof wf

daily usage, it was observed that she made more water in her hold than
wooof wooof, wf wof woooooof woof wof woof woof wooof wf wof woof woof

common. They supposed a sword-fish had stabbed her, gentlemen. But the
woooof. Woof woooooof w wooof-woof wof wooooof wof, wooooooof. Wof wof

captain, having some unusual reason for believing that rare good luck
wooooof, woooof woof wooooof woooof wof wooooooof woof woof woof woof

awaited him in those latitudes; and therefore being very averse to quit
wooooof wof wf wooof wooooooof; wof wooooooof wooof woof woooof wf woof

them, and the leak not being then considered at all dangerous, though,
woof, wof wof woof wof wooof woof woooooooof wf wof wooooooof, woooof,

indeed, they could not find it after searching the hold as low down
woooof, woof wooof wof woof wf wooof wooooooof wof woof wf wof woof

as was possible in rather heavy weather, the ship still continued her
wf wof woooooof wf woooof wooof wooooof, wof woof wooof wooooooof wof

cruisings, the mariners working at the pumps at wide and easy intervals;
wooooooof, wof woooooof wooooof wf wof wooof wf woof wof woof wooooooof;

but no good luck came; more days went by, and not only was the leak yet
wof wf woof woof woof; woof woof woof wf, wof wof woof wof wof woof wof

undiscovered, but it sensibly increased. So much so, that now taking
woooooooooof, wof wf woooooof wooooooof. Wf woof wf, woof wof woooof

some alarm, the captain, making all sail, stood away for the nearest
woof wooof, wof wooooof, woooof wof woof, wooof woof wof wof wooooof

harbor among the islands, there to have his hull hove out and repaired.
woooof wooof wof wooooof, wooof wf woof wof woof woof wof wof woooooof.




"Though no small passage was before her, yet, if the commonest chance
"Woooof wf wooof wooooof wof woooof wof, wof, wf wof wooooooof woooof

favoured, he did not at all fear that his ship would founder by the way,
woooooof, wf wof wof wf wof woof woof wof woof wooof wooooof wf wof wof,

because his pumps were of the best, and being periodically relieved at
wooooof wof wooof woof wf wof woof, wof wooof woooooooooof woooooof wf

them, those six-and-thirty men of his could easily keep the ship free;
woof, wooof wof-wof-woooof wof wf wof wooof woooof woof wof woof woof;

never mind if the leak should double on her. In truth, well nigh the
wooof woof wf wof woof woooof woooof wf wof. Wf wooof, woof woof wof

whole of this passage being attended by very prosperous breezes, the
wooof wf woof wooooof wooof woooooof wf woof woooooooof wooooof, wof

Town-Ho had all but certainly arrived in perfect safety at her port
Woof-Wf wof wof wof wooooooof wooooof wf wooooof woooof wf wof woof

without the occurrence of the least fatality, had it not been for the
wooooof wof woooooooof wf wof wooof woooooof, wof wf wof woof wof wof

brutal overbearing of Radney, the mate, a Vineyarder, and the bitterly
woooof wooooooooof wf Woooof, wof woof, w Woooooooof, wof wof woooooof

provoked vengeance of Steelkilt, a Lakeman and desperado from Buffalo.
woooooof wooooooof wf Wooooooof, w Wooooof wof wooooooof woof Wooooof.




"'Lakeman!--Buffalo! Pray, what is a Lakeman, and where is Buffalo?'
"'Wooooof!--Wooooof! Woof, woof wf w Wooooof, wof wooof wf Wooooof?'

said Don Sebastian, rising in his swinging mat of grass.
woof Wof Wooooooof, woooof wf wof woooooof wof wf wooof.




"On the eastern shore of our Lake Erie, Don; but--I crave your
"Wf wof wooooof wooof wf wof Woof Woof, Wof; wof--W wooof woof

courtesy--may be, you shall soon hear further of all that. Now,
woooooof--wof wf, wof wooof woof woof wooooof wf wof woof. Wof,

gentlemen, in square-sail brigs and three-masted ships, well-nigh as
wooooooof, wf woooof-woof wooof wof wooof-woooof wooof, woof-woof wf

large and stout as any that ever sailed out of your old Callao to far
wooof wof wooof wf wof woof woof woooof wof wf woof wof Woooof wf wof

Manilla; this Lakeman, in the land-locked heart of our America, had yet
Wooooof; woof Wooooof, wf wof woof-woooof wooof wf wof Wooooof, wof wof

been nurtured by all those agrarian freebooting impressions popularly
woof woooooof wf wof wooof woooooof wooooooooof wooooooooof wooooooof

connected with the open ocean. For in their interflowing aggregate,
wooooooof woof wof woof wooof. Wof wf wooof woooooooooof wooooooof,

those grand fresh-water seas of ours,--Erie, and Ontario, and Huron, and
wooof wooof wooof-wooof woof wf woof,--Woof, wof Wooooof, wof Wooof, wof

Superior, and Michigan,--possess an ocean-like expansiveness, with many
Woooooof, wof Woooooof,--wooooof wf wooof-woof wooooooooooof, woof woof

of the ocean's noblest traits; with many of its rimmed varieties of
wf wof wooof'w wooooof woooof; woof woof wf wof woooof wooooooof wf

races and of climes. They contain round archipelagoes of romantic isles,
wooof wof wf woooof. Woof wooooof wooof wooooooooooof wf woooooof wooof,

even as the Polynesian waters do; in large part, are shored by two great
woof wf wof Woooooooof woooof wf; wf wooof woof, wof woooof wf wof wooof

contrasting nations, as the Atlantic is; they furnish long maritime
wooooooooof wooooof, wf wof Woooooof wf; woof wooooof woof woooooof

approaches to our numerous territorial colonies from the East, dotted
woooooooof wf wof woooooof wooooooooof woooooof woof wof Woof, woooof

all round their banks; here and there are frowned upon by batteries,
wof wooof wooof wooof; woof wof wooof wof wooooof woof wf wooooooof,

and by the goat-like craggy guns of lofty Mackinaw; they have heard the
wof wf wof woof-woof woooof woof wf wooof Woooooof; woof woof wooof wof

fleet thunderings of naval victories; at intervals, they yield their
wooof wooooooooof wf wooof wooooooof; wf wooooooof, woof wooof wooof

beaches to wild barbarians, whose red painted faces flash from out
wooooof wf woof woooooooof, wooof wof wooooof wooof wooof woof wof

their peltry wigwams; for leagues and leagues are flanked by ancient
wooof woooof wooooof; wof wooooof wof wooooof wof wooooof wf wooooof

and unentered forests, where the gaunt pines stand like serried lines
wof wooooooof wooooof, wooof wof wooof wooof wooof woof wooooof wooof

of kings in Gothic genealogies; those same woods harboring wild Afric
wf wooof wf Woooof wooooooooof; wooof woof wooof wooooooof woof Wooof

beasts of prey, and silken creatures whose exported furs give robes
woooof wf woof, wof woooof wooooooof wooof woooooof woof woof wooof

to Tartar Emperors; they mirror the paved capitals of Buffalo and
wf Woooof Woooooof; woof woooof wof wooof woooooof wf Wooooof wof

Cleveland, as well as Winnebago villages; they float alike the
Wooooooof, wf woof wf Wooooooof woooooof; woof wooof wooof wof

full-rigged merchant ship, the armed cruiser of the State, the steamer,
woof-woooof woooooof woof, wof wooof wooooof wf wof Wooof, wof wooooof,

and the beech canoe; they are swept by Borean and dismasting blasts as
wof wof wooof wooof; woof wof wooof wf Woooof wof woooooooof woooof wf

direful as any that lash the salted wave; they know what shipwrecks are,
wooooof wf wof woof woof wof woooof woof; woof woof woof woooooooof wof,

for out of sight of land, however inland, they have drowned full many
wof wof wf wooof wf woof, wooooof woooof, woof woof wooooof woof woof

a midnight ship with all its shrieking crew. Thus, gentlemen, though
w woooooof woof woof wof wof wooooooof woof. Woof, wooooooof, woooof

an inlander, Steelkilt was wild-ocean born, and wild-ocean nurtured;
wf woooooof, Wooooooof wof woof-wooof woof, wof woof-wooof woooooof;

as much of an audacious mariner as any. And for Radney, though in his
wf woof wf wf wooooooof wooooof wf wof. Wof wof Woooof, woooof wf wof

infancy he may have laid him down on the lone Nantucket beach, to nurse
wooooof wf wof woof woof wof woof wf wof woof Wooooooof wooof, wf wooof

at his maternal sea; though in after life he had long followed our
wf wof woooooof wof; woooof wf wooof woof wf wof woof woooooof wof

austere Atlantic and your contemplative Pacific; yet was he quite as
wooooof Woooooof wof woof wooooooooooof Wooooof; wof wof wf wooof wf

vengeful and full of social quarrel as the backwoods seaman, fresh
woooooof wof woof wf woooof wooooof wf wof wooooooof woooof, wooof

from the latitudes of buck-horn handled bowie-knives. Yet was this
woof wof wooooooof wf woof-woof wooooof wooof-woooof. Wof wof woof

Nantucketer a man with some good-hearted traits; and this Lakeman, a
Wooooooooof w wof woof woof woof-wooooof woooof; wof woof Wooooof, w

mariner, who though a sort of devil indeed, might yet by inflexible
wooooof, wof woooof w woof wf wooof woooof, wooof wof wf woooooooof

firmness, only tempered by that common decency of human recognition
woooooof, woof woooooof wf woof woooof wooooof wf wooof wooooooooof

which is the meanest slave's right; thus treated, this Steelkilt had
wooof wf wof wooooof wooof'w wooof; woof wooooof, woof Wooooooof wof

long been retained harmless and docile. At all events, he had proved
woof woof woooooof woooooof wof woooof. Wf wof woooof, wf wof woooof

so thus far; but Radney was doomed and made mad, and Steelkilt--but,
wf woof wof; wof Woooof wof woooof wof woof wof, wof Wooooooof--wof,

gentlemen, you shall hear.
wooooooof, wof wooof woof.




"It was not more than a day or two at the furthest after pointing
"Wf wof wof woof woof w wof wf wof wf wof woooooof wooof woooooof

her prow for her island haven, that the Town-Ho's leak seemed again
wof woof wof wof woooof wooof, woof wof Woof-Wf'w woof woooof wooof

increasing, but only so as to require an hour or more at the pumps
woooooooof, wof woof wf wf wf wooooof wf woof wf woof wf wof wooof

every day. You must know that in a settled and civilized ocean like our
wooof wof. Wof woof woof woof wf w wooooof wof wooooooof wooof woof wof

Atlantic, for example, some skippers think little of pumping their whole
Woooooof, wof wooooof, woof woooooof wooof woooof wf wooooof wooof wooof

way across it; though of a still, sleepy night, should the officer of
wof woooof wf; woooof wf w wooof, woooof wooof, woooof wof wooooof wf

the deck happen to forget his duty in that respect, the probability
wof woof woooof wf woooof wof woof wf woof wooooof, wof wooooooooof

would be that he and his shipmates would never again remember it, on
wooof wf woof wf wof wof wooooooof wooof wooof wooof woooooof wf, wf

account of all hands gently subsiding to the bottom. Nor in the
wooooof wf wof wooof woooof wooooooof wf wof woooof. Wof wf wof

solitary and savage seas far from you to the westward, gentlemen, is it
woooooof wof woooof woof wof woof wof wf wof woooooof, wooooooof, wf wf

altogether unusual for ships to keep clanging at their pump-handles in
woooooooof wooooof wof wooof wf woof woooooof wf wooof woof-wooooof wf

full chorus even for a voyage of considerable length; that is, if it lie
woof woooof woof wof w woooof wf woooooooooof woooof; woof wf, wf wf wof

along a tolerably accessible coast, or if any other reasonable retreat
wooof w wooooooof woooooooof wooof, wf wf wof wooof woooooooof wooooof

is afforded them. It is only when a leaky vessel is in some very out of
wf woooooof woof. Wf wf woof woof w wooof woooof wf wf woof woof wof wf

the way part of those waters, some really landless latitude, that her
wof wof woof wf wooof woooof, woof woooof woooooof woooooof, woof wof

captain begins to feel a little anxious.
wooooof woooof wf woof w woooof wooooof.




"Much this way had it been with the Town-Ho; so when her leak was found
"Woof woof wof wof wf woof woof wof Woof-Wf; wf woof wof woof wof wooof

gaining once more, there was in truth some small concern manifested by
wooooof woof woof, wooof wof wf wooof woof wooof wooooof woooooooof wf

several of her company; especially by Radney the mate. He commanded
wooooof wf wof wooooof; woooooooof wf Woooof wof woof. Wf wooooooof

the upper sails to be well hoisted, sheeted home anew, and every way
wof wooof wooof wf wf woof wooooof, wooooof woof woof, wof wooof wof

expanded to the breeze. Now this Radney, I suppose, was as little of a
woooooof wf wof woooof. Wof woof Woooof, W wooooof, wof wf woooof wf w

coward, and as little inclined to any sort of nervous apprehensiveness
woooof, wof wf woooof woooooof wf wof woof wf wooooof woooooooooooooof

touching his own person as any fearless, unthinking creature on land or
woooooof wof wof woooof wf wof woooooof, woooooooof woooooof wf woof wf

on sea that you can conveniently imagine, gentlemen. Therefore when
wf wof woof wof wof woooooooooof wooooof, wooooooof. Wooooooof woof

he betrayed this solicitude about the safety of the ship, some of the
wf woooooof woof woooooooof wooof wof woooof wf wof woof, woof wf wof

seamen declared that it was only on account of his being a part owner in
woooof woooooof woof wf wof woof wf wooooof wf wof wooof w woof wooof wf

her. So when they were working that evening at the pumps, there was on
wof. Wf woof woof woof wooooof woof wooooof wf wof wooof, wooof wof wf

this head no small gamesomeness slily going on among them, as they stood
woof woof wf wooof woooooooooof wooof wooof wf wooof woof, wf woof wooof

with their feet continually overflowed by the rippling clear water;
woof wooof woof wooooooooof woooooooof wf wof woooooof wooof wooof;

clear as any mountain spring, gentlemen--that bubbling from the pumps
wooof wf wof woooooof woooof, wooooooof--woof woooooof woof wof wooof

ran across the deck, and poured itself out in steady spouts at the lee
wof woooof wof woof, wof woooof woooof wof wf woooof woooof wf wof wof

scupper-holes.
wooooof-wooof.




"Now, as you well know, it is not seldom the case in this conventional
"Wof, wf wof woof woof, wf wf wof woooof wof woof wf woof woooooooooof

world of ours--watery or otherwise; that when a person placed in command
wooof wf woof--woooof wf wooooooof; woof woof w woooof woooof wf wooooof

over his fellow-men finds one of them to be very significantly his
woof wof woooof-wof wooof wof wf woof wf wf woof wooooooooooof wof

superior in general pride of manhood, straightway against that man he
woooooof wf wooooof wooof wf wooooof, wooooooooof wooooof woof wof wf

conceives an unconquerable dislike and bitterness; and if he have a
wooooooof wf wooooooooooof wooooof wof woooooooof; wof wf wf woof w

chance he will pull down and pulverize that subaltern's tower, and
woooof wf woof woof woof wof wooooooof woof wooooooof'w wooof, wof

make a little heap of dust of it. Be this conceit of mine as it may,
woof w woooof woof wf woof wf wf. Wf woof wooooof wf woof wf wf wof,

gentlemen, at all events Steelkilt was a tall and noble animal with a
wooooooof, wf wof woooof Wooooooof wof w woof wof wooof woooof woof w

head like a Roman, and a flowing golden beard like the tasseled housings
woof woof w Wooof, wof w wooooof woooof wooof woof wof woooooof woooooof

of your last viceroy's snorting charger; and a brain, and a heart, and
wf woof woof wooooof'w woooooof wooooof; wof w wooof, wof w wooof, wof

a soul in him, gentlemen, which had made Steelkilt Charlemagne, had he
w woof wf wof, wooooooof, wooof wof woof Wooooooof Wooooooooof, wof wf

been born son to Charlemagne's father. But Radney, the mate, was ugly
woof woof wof wf Wooooooooof'w woooof. Wof Woooof, wof woof, wof woof

as a mule; yet as hardy, as stubborn, as malicious. He did not love
wf w woof; wof wf wooof, wf woooooof, wf wooooooof. Wf wof wof woof

Steelkilt, and Steelkilt knew it.
Wooooooof, wof Wooooooof woof wf.




"Espying the mate drawing near as he was toiling at the pump with the
"Wooooof wof woof wooooof woof wf wf wof wooooof wf wof woof woof wof

rest, the Lakeman affected not to notice him, but unawed, went on with
woof, wof Wooooof woooooof wof wf woooof wof, wof woooof, woof wf woof

his gay banterings.
wof wof woooooooof.




"'Aye, aye, my merry lads, it's a lively leak this; hold a cannikin, one
"'Wof, wof, wf wooof woof, wf'w w woooof woof woof; woof w woooooof, wof

of ye, and let's have a taste. By the Lord, it's worth bottling! I tell
wf wf, wof wof'w woof w wooof. Wf wof Woof, wf'w wooof woooooof! W woof

ye what, men, old Rad's investment must go for it! he had best cut away
wf woof, wof, wof Wof'w woooooooof woof wf wof wf! wf wof woof wof woof

his part of the hull and tow it home. The fact is, boys, that sword-fish
wof woof wf wof woof wof wof wf woof. Wof woof wf, woof, woof wooof-woof

only began the job; he's come back again with a gang of ship-carpenters,
woof wooof wof wof; wf'w woof woof wooof woof w woof wf woof-woooooooof,

saw-fish, and file-fish, and what not; and the whole posse of 'em
wof-woof, wof woof-woof, wof woof wof; wof wof wooof wooof wf 'wf

are now hard at work cutting and slashing at the bottom; making
wof wof woof wf woof wooooof wof woooooof wf wof woooof; woooof

improvements, I suppose. If old Rad were here now, I'd tell him to jump
woooooooooof, W wooooof. Wf wof Wof woof woof wof, W'w woof wof wf woof

overboard and scatter 'em. They're playing the devil with his estate, I
wooooooof wof wooooof 'wf. Woof'wf wooooof wof wooof woof wof woooof, W

can tell him. But he's a simple old soul,--Rad, and a beauty too. Boys,
wof woof wof. Wof wf'w w woooof wof woof,--Wof, wof w woooof wof. Woof,

they say the rest of his property is invested in looking-glasses. I
woof wof wof woof wf wof woooooof wf woooooof wf wooooof-wooooof. W

wonder if he'd give a poor devil like me the model of his nose.'
woooof wf wf'w woof w woof wooof woof wf wof wooof wf wof woof.'




"'Damn your eyes! what's that pump stopping for?' roared Radney,
"'Woof woof woof! woof'w woof woof woooooof wof?' woooof Woooof,

pretending not to have heard the sailors' talk. 'Thunder away at it!'
woooooooof wof wf woof wooof wof wooooof' woof. 'Wooooof woof wf wf!'




"'Aye, aye, sir,' said Steelkilt, merry as a cricket. 'Lively, boys,
"'Wof, wof, wof,' woof Wooooooof, wooof wf w wooooof. 'Woooof, woof,

lively, now!' And with that the pump clanged like fifty fire-engines;
woooof, wof!' Wof woof woof wof woof wooooof woof wooof woof-wooooof;

the men tossed their hats off to it, and ere long that peculiar gasping
wof wof woooof wooof woof wof wf wf, wof wof woof woof woooooof wooooof

of the lungs was heard which denotes the fullest tension of life's
wf wof wooof wof wooof wooof wooooof wof wooooof wooooof wf woof'w

utmost energies.
woooof woooooof.




"Quitting the pump at last, with the rest of his band, the Lakeman went
"Woooooof wof woof wf woof, woof wof woof wf wof woof, wof Wooooof woof

forward all panting, and sat himself down on the windlass; his face
wooooof wof wooooof, wof wof wooooof woof wf wof woooooof; wof woof

fiery red, his eyes bloodshot, and wiping the profuse sweat from his
wooof wof, wof woof wooooooof, wof woooof wof wooooof wooof woof wof

brow. Now what cozening fiend it was, gentlemen, that possessed Radney
woof. Wof woof woooooof wooof wf wof, wooooooof, woof wooooooof Woooof

to meddle with such a man in that corporeally exasperated state, I know
wf woooof woof woof w wof wf woof wooooooooof wooooooooof wooof, W woof

not; but so it happened. Intolerably striding along the deck, the mate
wof; wof wf wf woooooof. Wooooooooof woooooof wooof wof woof, wof woof

commanded him to get a broom and sweep down the planks, and also a
wooooooof wof wf wof w wooof wof wooof woof wof woooof, wof woof w

shovel, and remove some offensive matters consequent upon allowing a pig
woooof, wof woooof woof wooooooof wooooof woooooooof woof woooooof w wof

to run at large.
wf wof wf wooof.




"Now, gentlemen, sweeping a ship's deck at sea is a piece of household
"Wof, wooooooof, woooooof w woof'w woof wf wof wf w wooof wf wooooooof

work which in all times but raging gales is regularly attended to every
woof wooof wf wof wooof wof woooof wooof wf wooooooof woooooof wf wooof

evening; it has been known to be done in the case of ships actually
wooooof; wf wof woof wooof wf wf woof wf wof woof wf wooof woooooof

foundering at the time. Such, gentlemen, is the inflexibility of
woooooooof wf wof woof. Woof, wooooooof, wf wof wooooooooooof wf

sea-usages and the instinctive love of neatness in seamen; some of whom
wof-woooof wof wof wooooooooof woof wf woooooof wf woooof; woof wf woof

would not willingly drown without first washing their faces. But in all
wooof wof wooooooof wooof wooooof wooof wooooof wooof wooof. Wof wf wof

vessels this broom business is the prescriptive province of the boys,
wooooof woof wooof woooooof wf wof woooooooooof woooooof wf wof woof,

if boys there be aboard. Besides, it was the stronger men in the Town-Ho
wf woof wooof wf woooof. Wooooof, wf wof wof woooooof wof wf wof Woof-Wf

that had been divided into gangs, taking turns at the pumps; and being
woof wof woof wooooof woof wooof, woooof wooof wf wof wooof; wof wooof

the most athletic seaman of them all, Steelkilt had been regularly
wof woof woooooof woooof wf woof wof, Wooooooof wof woof wooooooof

assigned captain of one of the gangs; consequently he should have
woooooof wooooof wf wof wf wof wooof; woooooooooof wf woooof woof

been freed from any trivial business not connected with truly nautical
woof wooof woof wof wooooof woooooof wof wooooooof woof wooof woooooof

duties, such being the case with his comrades. I mention all these
woooof, woof wooof wof woof woof wof woooooof. W wooooof wof wooof

particulars so that you may understand exactly how this affair stood
wooooooooof wf woof wof wof woooooooof wooooof wof woof woooof wooof

between the two men.
wooooof wof wof wof.




"But there was more than this: the order about the shovel was almost as
"Wof wooof wof woof woof woof: wof wooof wooof wof woooof wof woooof wf

plainly meant to sting and insult Steelkilt, as though Radney had spat
wooooof wooof wf wooof wof woooof Wooooooof, wf woooof Woooof wof woof

in his face. Any man who has gone sailor in a whale-ship will
wf wof woof. Wof wof wof wof woof woooof wf w wooof-woof woof

understand this; and all this and doubtless much more, the Lakeman fully
woooooooof woof; wof wof woof wof wooooooof woof woof, wof Wooooof wooof

comprehended when the mate uttered his command. But as he sat still for
woooooooooof woof wof woof wooooof wof wooooof. Wof wf wf wof wooof wof

a moment, and as he steadfastly looked into the mate's malignant eye and
w woooof, wof wf wf wooooooooof woooof woof wof woof'w wooooooof wof wof

perceived the stacks of powder-casks heaped up in him and the slow-match
wooooooof wof woooof wf woooof-wooof woooof wf wf wof wof wof woof-wooof

silently burning along towards them; as he instinctively saw all
woooooof wooooof wooof wooooof woof; wf wf wooooooooooof wof wof

this, that strange forbearance and unwillingness to stir up the deeper
woof, woof wooooof wooooooooof wof wooooooooooof wf woof wf wof woooof

passionateness in any already ireful being--a repugnance most felt, when
woooooooooooof wf wof wooooof woooof wooof--w woooooooof woof woof, woof

felt at all, by really valiant men even when aggrieved--this nameless
woof wf wof, wf woooof wooooof wof woof woof wooooooof--woof woooooof

phantom feeling, gentlemen, stole over Steelkilt.
wooooof wooooof, wooooooof, wooof woof Wooooooof.




"Therefore, in his ordinary tone, only a little broken by the bodily
"Wooooooof, wf wof woooooof woof, woof w woooof woooof wf wof woooof

exhaustion he was temporarily in, he answered him saying that sweeping
woooooooof wf wof wooooooooof wf, wf woooooof wof woooof woof woooooof

the deck was not his business, and he would not do it. And then, without
wof woof wof wof wof woooooof, wof wf wooof wof wf wf. Wof woof, wooooof

at all alluding to the shovel, he pointed to three lads as the customary
wf wof woooooof wf wof woooof, wf wooooof wf wooof woof wf wof wooooooof

sweepers; who, not being billeted at the pumps, had done little or
woooooof; wof, wof wooof woooooof wf wof wooof, wof woof woooof wf

nothing all day. To this, Radney replied with an oath, in a most
wooooof wof wof. Wf woof, Woooof wooooof woof wf woof, wf w woof

domineering and outrageous manner unconditionally reiterating his
wooooooooof wof woooooooof woooof wooooooooooooof wooooooooof wof

command; meanwhile advancing upon the still seated Lakeman, with an
wooooof; wooooooof wooooooof woof wof wooof woooof Wooooof, woof wf

uplifted cooper's club hammer which he had snatched from a cask near by.
woooooof woooof'w woof woooof wooof wf wof woooooof woof w woof woof wf.




"Heated and irritated as he was by his spasmodic toil at the pumps, for
"Woooof wof wooooooof wf wf wof wf wof wooooooof woof wf wof wooof, wof

all his first nameless feeling of forbearance the sweating Steelkilt
wof wof wooof woooooof wooooof wf wooooooooof wof woooooof Wooooooof

could but ill brook this bearing in the mate; but somehow still
wooof wof wof wooof woof wooooof wf wof woof; wof wooooof wooof

smothering the conflagration within him, without speaking he remained
woooooooof wof wooooooooooof woooof wof, wooooof woooooof wf woooooof

doggedly rooted to his seat, till at last the incensed Radney shook the
woooooof woooof wf wof woof, woof wf woof wof woooooof Woooof wooof wof

hammer within a few inches of his face, furiously commanding him to do
woooof woooof w wof woooof wf wof woof, wooooooof woooooooof wof wf wf

his bidding.
wof wooooof.




"Steelkilt rose, and slowly retreating round the windlass, steadily
"Wooooooof woof, wof woooof woooooooof wooof wof woooooof, woooooof

followed by the mate with his menacing hammer, deliberately repeated his
woooooof wf wof woof woof wof woooooof woooof, woooooooooof woooooof wof

intention not to obey. Seeing, however, that his forbearance had not
wooooooof wof wf woof. Woooof, wooooof, woof wof wooooooooof wof wof

the slightest effect, by an awful and unspeakable intimation with his
wof wooooooof woooof, wf wf wooof wof wooooooooof woooooooof woof wof

twisted hand he warned off the foolish and infatuated man; but it was to
wooooof woof wf woooof wof wof wooooof wof woooooooof wof; wof wf wof wf

no purpose. And in this way the two went once slowly round the windlass;
wf wooooof. Wof wf woof wof wof wof woof woof woooof wooof wof woooooof;

when, resolved at last no longer to retreat, bethinking him that he had
woof, woooooof wf woof wf woooof wf wooooof, woooooooof wof woof wf wof

now forborne as much as comported with his humor, the Lakeman paused on
wof woooooof wf woof wf wooooooof woof wof wooof, wof Wooooof woooof wf

the hatches and thus spoke to the officer:
wof wooooof wof woof wooof wf wof wooooof:




"'Mr. Radney, I will not obey you. Take that hammer away, or look to
"'Wf. Woooof, W woof wof woof wof. Woof woof woooof woof, wf woof wf

yourself.' But the predestinated mate coming still closer to him, where
woooooof.' Wof wof wooooooooooof woof woooof wooof woooof wf wof, wooof

the Lakeman stood fixed, now shook the heavy hammer within an inch of
wof Wooooof wooof wooof, wof wooof wof wooof woooof woooof wf woof wf

his teeth; meanwhile repeating a string of insufferable maledictions.
wof wooof; wooooooof wooooooof w woooof wf woooooooooof woooooooooof.

Retreating not the thousandth part of an inch; stabbing him in the eye
Woooooooof wof wof woooooooof woof wf wf woof; woooooof wof wf wof wof

with the unflinching poniard of his glance, Steelkilt, clenching
woof wof wooooooooof wooooof wf wof woooof, Wooooooof, wooooooof

his right hand behind him and creepingly drawing it back, told his
wof wooof woof woooof wof wof woooooooof wooooof wf woof, woof wof

persecutor that if the hammer but grazed his cheek he (Steelkilt) would
woooooooof woof wf wof woooof wof woooof wof wooof wf (Wooooooof) wooof

murder him. But, gentlemen, the fool had been branded for the slaughter
woooof wof. Wof, wooooooof, wof woof wof woof wooooof wof wof wooooooof

by the gods. Immediately the hammer touched the cheek; the next instant
wf wof woof. Wooooooooof wof woooof wooooof wof wooof; wof woof wooooof

the lower jaw of the mate was stove in his head; he fell on the hatch
wof wooof wof wf wof woof wof wooof wf wof woof; wf woof wf wof wooof

spouting blood like a whale.
woooooof wooof woof w wooof.




"Ere the cry could go aft Steelkilt was shaking one of the backstays
"Wof wof wof wooof wf wof Wooooooof wof wooooof wof wf wof wooooooof

leading far aloft to where two of his comrades were standing their
wooooof wof wooof wf wooof wof wf wof woooooof woof woooooof wooof

mastheads. They were both Canallers.
wooooooof. Woof woof woof Wooooooof.




"'Canallers!' cried Don Pedro. 'We have seen many whale-ships in our
"'Wooooooof!' wooof Wof Wooof. 'Wf woof woof woof wooof-wooof wf wof

harbours, but never heard of your Canallers. Pardon: who and what are
woooooof, wof wooof wooof wf woof Wooooooof. Woooof: wof wof woof wof

they?'
woof?'




"'Canallers, Don, are the boatmen belonging to our grand Erie Canal. You
"'Wooooooof, Wof, wof wof wooooof wooooooof wf wof wooof Woof Wooof. Wof

must have heard of it.'
woof woof wooof wf wf.'




"'Nay, Senor; hereabouts in this dull, warm, most lazy, and hereditary
"'Wof, Wooof; woooooooof wf woof woof, woof, woof woof, wof woooooooof

land, we know but little of your vigorous North.'
woof, wf woof wof woooof wf woof woooooof Wooof.'




"'Aye? Well then, Don, refill my cup. Your chicha's very fine; and
"'Wof? Woof woof, Wof, woooof wf wof. Woof woooof'w woof woof; wof

ere proceeding further I will tell ye what our Canallers are; for such
wof woooooooof wooooof W woof woof wf woof wof Wooooooof wof; wof woof

information may throw side-light upon my story.'
wooooooooof wof wooof woof-wooof woof wf wooof.'




"For three hundred and sixty miles, gentlemen, through the entire
"Wof wooof wooooof wof wooof wooof, wooooooof, wooooof wof woooof

breadth of the state of New York; through numerous populous cities and
wooooof wf wof wooof wf Wof Woof; wooooof woooooof woooooof woooof wof

most thriving villages; through long, dismal, uninhabited swamps, and
woof woooooof woooooof; wooooof woof, woooof, wooooooooof woooof, wof

affluent, cultivated fields, unrivalled for fertility; by billiard-room
woooooof, woooooooof woooof, woooooooof wof wooooooof; wf woooooof-woof

and bar-room; through the holy-of-holies of great forests; on Roman
wof wof-woof; wooooof wof woof-wf-woooof wf wooof wooooof; wf Wooof

arches over Indian rivers; through sun and shade; by happy hearts or
woooof woof Woooof woooof; wooooof wof wof wooof; wf wooof woooof wf

broken; through all the wide contrasting scenery of those noble Mohawk
woooof; wooooof wof wof woof wooooooooof wooooof wf wooof wooof Woooof

counties; and especially, by rows of snow-white chapels, whose spires
woooooof; wof woooooooof, wf woof wf woof-wooof wooooof, wooof woooof

stand almost like milestones, flows one continual stream of Venetianly
wooof woooof woof woooooooof, wooof wof wooooooof woooof wf Woooooooof

corrupt and often lawless life. There's your true Ashantee, gentlemen;
wooooof wof wooof wooooof woof. Wooof'w woof woof Woooooof, wooooooof;

there howl your pagans; where you ever find them, next door to you;
wooof woof woof woooof; wooof wof woof woof woof, woof woof wf wof;

under the long-flung shadow, and the snug patronising lee of churches.
wooof wof woof-wooof woooof, wof wof woof wooooooooof wof wf woooooof.

For by some curious fatality, as it is often noted of your metropolitan
Wof wf woof wooooof woooooof, wf wf wf wooof wooof wf woof woooooooooof

freebooters that they ever encamp around the halls of justice, so
wooooooooof woof woof woof woooof woooof wof wooof wf wooooof, wf

sinners, gentlemen, most abound in holiest vicinities.
wooooof, wooooooof, woof woooof wf wooooof woooooooof.




"'Is that a friar passing?' said Don Pedro, looking downwards into the
"'Wf woof w wooof wooooof?' woof Wof Wooof, wooooof wooooooof woof wof

crowded plazza, with humorous concern.
wooooof woooof, woof woooooof wooooof.




"'Well for our northern friend, Dame Isabella's Inquisition wanes in
"'Woof wof wof woooooof woooof, Woof Woooooof'w Wooooooooof wooof wf

Lima,' laughed Don Sebastian. 'Proceed, Senor.'
Woof,' wooooof Wof Wooooooof. 'Wooooof, Wooof.'




"'A moment! Pardon!' cried another of the company. 'In the name of all
"'W woooof! Woooof!' wooof wooooof wf wof wooooof. 'Wf wof woof wf wof

us Limeese, I but desire to express to you, sir sailor, that we have by
wf Wooooof, W wof woooof wf wooooof wf wof, wof woooof, woof wf woof wf

no means overlooked your delicacy in not substituting present Lima
wf wooof woooooooof woof woooooof wf wof woooooooooof wooooof Woof

for distant Venice in your corrupt comparison. Oh! do not bow and look
wof wooooof Woooof wf woof wooooof woooooooof. Wf! wf wof wof wof woof

surprised; you know the proverb all along this coast--"Corrupt as
wooooooof; wof woof wof wooooof wof wooof woof wooof--"Wooooof wf

Lima." It but bears out your saying, too; churches more plentiful than
Woof." Wf wof wooof wof woof woooof, wof; woooooof woof wooooooof woof

billiard-tables, and for ever open--and "Corrupt as Lima." So, too,
woooooof-woooof, wof wof woof woof--wof "Wooooof wf Woof." Wf, wof,

Venice; I have been there; the holy city of the blessed evangelist, St.
Woooof; W woof woof wooof; wof woof woof wf wof wooooof woooooooof, Wf.

Mark!--St. Dominic, purge it! Your cup! Thanks: here I refill; now, you
Woof!--Wf. Wooooof, wooof wf! Woof wof! Woooof: woof W woooof; wof, wof

pour out again.'
woof wof wooof.'




"Freely depicted in his own vocation, gentlemen, the Canaller would make
"Woooof woooooof wf wof wof woooooof, wooooooof, wof Woooooof wooof woof

a fine dramatic hero, so abundantly and picturesquely wicked is he. Like
w woof woooooof woof, wf woooooooof wof wooooooooooof woooof wf wf. Woof

Mark Antony, for days and days along his green-turfed, flowery Nile,
Woof Woooof, wof woof wof woof wooof wof wooof-woooof, wooooof Woof,

he indolently floats, openly toying with his red-cheeked Cleopatra,
wf woooooooof woooof, woooof woooof woof wof wof-wooooof Wooooooof,

ripening his apricot thigh upon the sunny deck. But ashore, all this
woooooof wof wooooof wooof woof wof wooof woof. Wof woooof, wof woof

effeminacy is dashed. The brigandish guise which the Canaller so proudly
woooooooof wf woooof. Wof woooooooof wooof wooof wof Woooooof wf wooooof

sports; his slouched and gaily-ribboned hat betoken his grand features.
woooof; wof woooooof wof wooof-woooooof wof wooooof wof wooof woooooof.

A terror to the smiling innocence of the villages through which he
W woooof wf wof wooooof wooooooof wf wof woooooof wooooof wooof wf

floats; his swart visage and bold swagger are not unshunned in cities.
woooof; wof wooof woooof wof woof wooooof wof wof wooooooof wf woooof.

Once a vagabond on his own canal, I have received good turns from one of
Woof w woooooof wf wof wof wooof, W woof woooooof woof wooof woof wof wf

these Canallers; I thank him heartily; would fain be not ungrateful;
wooof Wooooooof; W wooof wof woooooof; wooof woof wf wof woooooooof;

but it is often one of the prime redeeming qualities of your man of
wof wf wf wooof wof wf wof wooof wooooooof wooooooof wf woof wof wf

violence, that at times he has as stiff an arm to back a poor stranger
woooooof, woof wf wooof wf wof wf wooof wf wof wf woof w woof woooooof

in a strait, as to plunder a wealthy one. In sum, gentlemen, what the
wf w woooof, wf wf wooooof w wooooof wof. Wf wof, wooooooof, woof wof

wildness of this canal life is, is emphatically evinced by this; that
woooooof wf woof wooof woof wf, wf woooooooooof wooooof wf woof; woof

our wild whale-fishery contains so many of its most finished graduates,
wof woof wooof-wooooof woooooof wf woof wf wof woof woooooof wooooooof,

and that scarce any race of mankind, except Sydney men, are so much
wof woof woooof wof woof wf wooooof, woooof Woooof wof, wof wf woof

distrusted by our whaling captains. Nor does it at all diminish the
woooooooof wf wof wooooof woooooof. Wof woof wf wf wof woooooof wof

curiousness of this matter, that to many thousands of our rural boys and
wooooooooof wf woof woooof, woof wf woof wooooooof wf wof wooof woof wof

young men born along its line, the probationary life of the Grand Canal
wooof wof woof wooof wof woof, wof woooooooooof woof wf wof Wooof Wooof

furnishes the sole transition between quietly reaping in a Christian
wooooooof wof woof woooooooof wooooof wooooof wooooof wf w Wooooooof

corn-field, and recklessly ploughing the waters of the most barbaric
woof-wooof, wof woooooooof wooooooof wof woooof wf wof woof woooooof

seas.
woof.




"'I see! I see!' impetuously exclaimed Don Pedro, spilling his chicha
"'W wof! W wof!' wooooooooof wooooooof Wof Wooof, woooooof wof woooof

upon his silvery ruffles. 'No need to travel! The world's one Lima. I
woof wof wooooof wooooof. 'Wf woof wf woooof! Wof wooof'w wof Woof. W

had thought, now, that at your temperate North the generations were cold
wof wooooof, wof, woof wf woof wooooooof Wooof wof wooooooooof woof woof

and holy as the hills.--But the story.'
wof woof wf wof wooof.--Wof wof wooof.'




"I left off, gentlemen, where the Lakeman shook the backstay. Hardly
"W woof wof, wooooooof, wooof wof Wooooof wooof wof woooooof. Woooof

had he done so, when he was surrounded by the three junior mates and the
wof wf woof wf, woof wf wof woooooooof wf wof wooof woooof wooof wof wof

four harpooneers, who all crowded him to the deck. But sliding down the
woof wooooooooof, wof wof wooooof wof wf wof woof. Wof wooooof woof wof

ropes like baleful comets, the two Canallers rushed into the uproar, and
wooof woof wooooof woooof, wof wof Wooooooof woooof woof wof woooof, wof

sought to drag their man out of it towards the forecastle. Others of the
woooof wf woof wooof wof wof wf wf wooooof wof woooooooof. Woooof wf wof

sailors joined with them in this attempt, and a twisted turmoil ensued;
wooooof woooof woof woof wf woof wooooof, wof w wooooof wooooof woooof;

while standing out of harm's way, the valiant captain danced up and down
wooof woooooof wof wf woof'w wof, wof wooooof wooooof woooof wf wof woof

with a whale-pike, calling upon his officers to manhandle that atrocious
woof w wooof-woof, wooooof woof wof woooooof wf wooooooof woof wooooooof

scoundrel, and smoke him along to the quarter-deck. At intervals, he ran
wooooooof, wof wooof wof wooof wf wof wooooof-woof. Wf wooooooof, wf wof

close up to the revolving border of the confusion, and prying into
wooof wf wf wof wooooooof woooof wf wof wooooooof, wof woooof woof

the heart of it with his pike, sought to prick out the object of his
wof wooof wf wf woof wof woof, woooof wf wooof wof wof woooof wf wof

resentment. But Steelkilt and his desperadoes were too much for them
woooooooof. Wof Wooooooof wof wof wooooooooof woof wof woof wof woof

all; they succeeded in gaining the forecastle deck, where, hastily
wof; woof wooooooof wf wooooof wof woooooooof woof, wooof, wooooof

slewing about three or four large casks in a line with the windlass,
wooooof wooof wooof wf woof wooof wooof wf w woof woof wof woooooof,

these sea-Parisians entrenched themselves behind the barricade.
wooof wof-Wooooooof woooooooof woooooooof woooof wof wooooooof.




"'Come out of that, ye pirates!' roared the captain, now menacing them
"'Woof wof wf woof, wf wooooof!' woooof wof wooooof, wof woooooof woof

with a pistol in each hand, just brought to him by the steward. 'Come
woof w woooof wf woof woof, woof wooooof wf wof wf wof wooooof. 'Woof

out of that, ye cut-throats!'
wof wf woof, wf wof-wooooof!'




"Steelkilt leaped on the barricade, and striding up and down there,
"Wooooooof woooof wf wof wooooooof, wof woooooof wf wof woof wooof,

defied the worst the pistols could do; but gave the captain to
woooof wof wooof wof wooooof wooof wf; wof woof wof wooooof wf

understand distinctly, that his (Steelkilt's) death would be the signal
woooooooof woooooooof, woof wof (Wooooooof'w) wooof wooof wf wof woooof

for a murderous mutiny on the part of all hands. Fearing in his heart
wof w wooooooof woooof wf wof woof wf wof wooof. Wooooof wf wof wooof

lest this might prove but too true, the captain a little desisted, but
woof woof wooof wooof wof wof woof, wof wooooof w woooof woooooof, wof

still commanded the insurgents instantly to return to their duty.
wooof wooooooof wof woooooooof wooooooof wf woooof wf wooof woof.




"'Will you promise not to touch us, if we do?' demanded their
"'Woof wof wooooof wof wf wooof wf, wf wf wf?' woooooof wooof

ringleader.
woooooooof.




"'Turn to! turn to!--I make no promise;--to your duty! Do you want to
"'Woof wf! woof wf!--W woof wf wooooof;--wf woof woof! Wf wof woof wf

sink the ship, by knocking off at a time like this? Turn to!' and he
woof wof woof, wf woooooof wof wf w woof woof woof? Woof wf!' wof wf

once more raised a pistol.
woof woof woooof w woooof.




"'Sink the ship?' cried Steelkilt. 'Aye, let her sink. Not a man of us
"'Woof wof woof?' wooof Wooooooof. 'Wof, wof wof woof. Wof w wof wf wf

turns to, unless you swear not to raise a rope-yarn against us. What say
wooof wf, woooof wof wooof wof wf wooof w woof-woof wooooof wf. Woof wof

ye, men?' turning to his comrades. A fierce cheer was their response.
wf, wof?' wooooof wf wof woooooof. W woooof wooof wof wooof woooooof.




"The Lakeman now patrolled the barricade, all the while keeping his eye
"Wof Wooooof wof wooooooof wof wooooooof, wof wof wooof wooooof wof wof

on the Captain, and jerking out such sentences as these:--'It's not our
wf wof Wooooof, wof wooooof wof woof wooooooof wf wooof:--'Wf'w wof wof

fault; we didn't want it; I told him to take his hammer away; it was
wooof; wf woof'w woof wf; W woof wof wf woof wof woooof woof; wf wof

boy's business; he might have known me before this; I told him not to
wof'w woooooof; wf wooof woof wooof wf woooof woof; W woof wof wof wf

prick the buffalo; I believe I have broken a finger here against his
wooof wof wooooof; W wooooof W woof woooof w woooof woof wooooof wof

cursed jaw; ain't those mincing knives down in the forecastle there,
woooof wof; wof'w wooof wooooof woooof woof wf wof woooooooof wooof,

men? look to those handspikes, my hearties. Captain, by God, look to
wof? woof wf wooof woooooooof, wf woooooof. Wooooof, wf Wof, woof wf

yourself; say the word; don't be a fool; forget it all; we are ready
woooooof; wof wof woof; wof'w wf w woof; woooof wf wof; wf wof wooof

to turn to; treat us decently, and we're your men; but we won't be
wf woof wf; wooof wf woooooof, wof wf'wf woof wof; wof wf wof'w wf

flogged.'
wooooof.'




"'Turn to! I make no promises, turn to, I say!'
"'Woof wf! W woof wf woooooof, woof wf, W wof!'




"'Look ye, now,' cried the Lakeman, flinging out his arm towards him,
"'Woof wf, wof,' wooof wof Wooooof, woooooof wof wof wof wooooof wof,

'there are a few of us here (and I am one of them) who have shipped
'wooof wof w wof wf wf woof (wof W wf wof wf woof) wof woof wooooof

for the cruise, d'ye see; now as you well know, sir, we can claim our
wof wof woooof, w'wf wof; wof wf wof woof woof, wof, wf wof wooof wof

discharge as soon as the anchor is down; so we don't want a row; it's
wooooooof wf woof wf wof woooof wf woof; wf wf wof'w woof w wof; wf'w

not our interest; we want to be peaceable; we are ready to work, but we
wof wof woooooof; wf woof wf wf wooooooof; wf wof wooof wf woof, wof wf

won't be flogged.'
wof'w wf wooooof.'




"'Turn to!' roared the Captain.
"'Woof wf!' woooof wof Wooooof.




"Steelkilt glanced round him a moment, and then said:--'I tell you what
"Wooooooof wooooof wooof wof w woooof, wof woof woof:--'W woof wof woof

it is now, Captain, rather than kill ye, and be hung for such a shabby
wf wf wof, Wooooof, woooof woof woof wf, wof wf woof wof woof w woooof

rascal, we won't lift a hand against ye unless ye attack us; but till
woooof, wf wof'w woof w woof wooooof wf woooof wf woooof wf; wof woof

you say the word about not flogging us, we don't do a hand's turn.'
wof wof wof woof wooof wof woooooof wf, wf wof'w wf w woof'w woof.'




"'Down into the forecastle then, down with ye, I'll keep ye there till
"'Woof woof wof woooooooof woof, woof woof wf, W'wf woof wf wooof woof

ye're sick of it. Down ye go.'
wf'wf woof wf wf. Woof wf wf.'




"'Shall we?' cried the ringleader to his men. Most of them were against
"'Wooof wf?' wooof wof woooooooof wf wof wof. Woof wf woof woof wooooof

it; but at length, in obedience to Steelkilt, they preceded him down
wf; wof wf woooof, wf wooooooof wf Wooooooof, woof woooooof wof woof

into their dark den, growlingly disappearing, like bears into a cave.
woof wooof woof wof, woooooooof woooooooooof, woof wooof woof w woof.




"As the Lakeman's bare head was just level with the planks, the Captain
"Wf wof Wooooof'w woof woof wof woof wooof woof wof woooof, wof Wooooof

and his posse leaped the barricade, and rapidly drawing over the slide
wof wof wooof woooof wof wooooooof, wof wooooof wooooof woof wof wooof

of the scuttle, planted their group of hands upon it, and loudly called
wf wof wooooof, wooooof wooof wooof wf wooof woof wf, wof woooof woooof

for the steward to bring the heavy brass padlock belonging to the
wof wof wooooof wf wooof wof wooof wooof wooooof wooooooof wf wof

companionway.
woooooooooof.




"Then opening the slide a little, the Captain whispered something
"Woof wooooof wof wooof w woooof, wof Wooooof wooooooof wooooooof

down the crack, closed it, and turned the key upon them--ten in
woof wof wooof, woooof wf, wof woooof wof wof woof woof--wof wf

number--leaving on deck some twenty or more, who thus far had remained
woooof--wooooof wf woof woof woooof wf woof, wof woof wof wof woooooof

neutral.
wooooof.




"All night a wide-awake watch was kept by all the officers, forward and
"Wof wooof w woof-wooof wooof wof woof wf wof wof woooooof, wooooof wof

aft, especially about the forecastle scuttle and fore hatchway; at which
wof, woooooooof wooof wof woooooooof wooooof wof woof woooooof; wf wooof

last place it was feared the insurgents might emerge, after breaking
woof wooof wf wof woooof wof woooooooof wooof woooof, wooof woooooof

through the bulkhead below. But the hours of darkness passed in peace;
wooooof wof woooooof wooof. Wof wof wooof wf woooooof woooof wf wooof;

the men who still remained at their duty toiling hard at the pumps,
wof wof wof wooof woooooof wf wooof woof wooooof woof wf wof wooof,

whose clinking and clanking at intervals through the dreary night
wooof woooooof wof woooooof wf wooooooof wooooof wof woooof wooof

dismally resounded through the ship.
woooooof wooooooof wooooof wof woof.




"At sunrise the Captain went forward, and knocking on the deck, summoned
"Wf wooooof wof Wooooof woof wooooof, wof woooooof wf wof woof, woooooof

the prisoners to work; but with a yell they refused. Water was then
wof wooooooof wf woof; wof woof w woof woof wooooof. Wooof wof woof

lowered down to them, and a couple of handfuls of biscuit were tossed
wooooof woof wf woof, wof w woooof wf woooooof wf wooooof woof woooof

after it; when again turning the key upon them and pocketing it, the
wooof wf; woof wooof wooooof wof wof woof woof wof wooooooof wf, wof

Captain returned to the quarter-deck. Twice every day for three days
Wooooof woooooof wf wof wooooof-woof. Wooof wooof wof wof wooof woof

this was repeated; but on the fourth morning a confused wrangling, and
woof wof woooooof; wof wf wof woooof wooooof w woooooof wooooooof, wof

then a scuffling was heard, as the customary summons was delivered; and
woof w wooooooof wof wooof, wf wof wooooooof wooooof wof wooooooof; wof

suddenly four men burst up from the forecastle, saying they were ready
woooooof woof wof wooof wf woof wof woooooooof, woooof woof woof wooof

to turn to. The fetid closeness of the air, and a famishing diet, united
wf woof wf. Wof wooof wooooooof wf wof wof, wof w wooooooof woof, woooof

perhaps to some fears of ultimate retribution, had constrained them to
wooooof wf woof wooof wf woooooof wooooooooof, wof wooooooooof woof wf

surrender at discretion. Emboldened by this, the Captain reiterated his
wooooooof wf woooooooof. Woooooooof wf woof, wof Wooooof woooooooof wof

demand to the rest, but Steelkilt shouted up to him a terrific hint to
woooof wf wof woof, wof Wooooooof wooooof wf wf wof w woooooof woof wf

stop his babbling and betake himself where he belonged. On the fifth
woof wof woooooof wof woooof wooooof wooof wf woooooof. Wf wof wooof

morning three others of the mutineers bolted up into the air from the
wooooof wooof woooof wf wof wooooooof woooof wf woof wof wof woof wof

desperate arms below that sought to restrain them. Only three were left.
wooooooof woof wooof woof woooof wf woooooof woof. Woof wooof woof woof.




"'Better turn to, now?' said the Captain with a heartless jeer.
"'Woooof woof wf, wof?' woof wof Wooooof woof w wooooooof woof.




"'Shut us up again, will ye!' cried Steelkilt.
"'Woof wf wf wooof, woof wf!' wooof Wooooooof.




"'Oh certainly,' said the Captain, and the key clicked.
"'Wf wooooooof,' woof wof Wooooof, wof wof wof wooooof.




"It was at this point, gentlemen, that enraged by the defection of seven
"Wf wof wf woof wooof, wooooooof, woof wooooof wf wof wooooooof wf wooof

of his former associates, and stung by the mocking voice that had last
wf wof woooof woooooooof, wof wooof wf wof wooooof wooof woof wof woof

hailed him, and maddened by his long entombment in a place as black as
woooof wof, wof woooooof wf wof woof woooooooof wf w wooof wf wooof wf

the bowels of despair; it was then that Steelkilt proposed to the two
wof woooof wf wooooof; wf wof woof woof Wooooooof woooooof wf wof wof

Canallers, thus far apparently of one mind with him, to burst out of
Wooooooof, woof wof woooooooof wf wof woof woof wof, wf wooof wof wf

their hole at the next summoning of the garrison; and armed with their
wooof woof wf wof woof wooooooof wf wof woooooof; wof wooof woof wooof

keen mincing knives (long, crescentic, heavy implements with a handle
woof wooooof woooof (woof, woooooooof, wooof woooooooof woof w woooof

at each end) run amuck from the bowsprit to the taffrail; and if by any
wf woof wof) wof wooof woof wof woooooof wf wof woooooof; wof wf wf wof

devilishness of desperation possible, seize the ship. For himself, he
woooooooooof wf wooooooooof woooooof, wooof wof woof. Wof wooooof, wf

would do this, he said, whether they joined him or not. That was the
wooof wf woof, wf woof, wooooof woof woooof wof wf wof. Woof wof wof

last night he should spend in that den. But the scheme met with no
woof wooof wf woooof wooof wf woof wof. Wof wof woooof wof woof wf

opposition on the part of the other two; they swore they were ready for
woooooooof wf wof woof wf wof wooof wof; woof wooof woof woof wooof wof

that, or for any other mad thing, for anything in short but a surrender.
woof, wf wof wof wooof wof wooof, wof woooooof wf wooof wof w wooooooof.

And what was more, they each insisted upon being the first man on deck,
Wof woof wof woof, woof woof woooooof woof wooof wof wooof wof wf woof,

when the time to make the rush should come. But to this their leader as
woof wof woof wf woof wof woof woooof woof. Wof wf woof wooof woooof wf

fiercely objected, reserving that priority for himself; particularly as
woooooof woooooof, wooooooof woof woooooof wof wooooof; woooooooooof wf

his two comrades would not yield, the one to the other, in the matter;
wof wof woooooof wooof wof wooof, wof wof wf wof wooof, wf wof woooof;

and both of them could not be first, for the ladder would but admit one
wof woof wf woof wooof wof wf wooof, wof wof woooof wooof wof wooof wof

man at a time. And here, gentlemen, the foul play of these miscreants
wof wf w woof. Wof woof, wooooooof, wof woof woof wf wooof woooooooof

must come out.
woof woof wof.




"Upon hearing the frantic project of their leader, each in his own
"Woof wooooof wof wooooof wooooof wf wooof woooof, woof wf wof wof

separate soul had suddenly lighted, it would seem, upon the same piece
woooooof woof wof woooooof wooooof, wf wooof woof, woof wof woof wooof

of treachery, namely: to be foremost in breaking out, in order to be
wf wooooooof, woooof: wf wf woooooof wf woooooof wof, wf wooof wf wf

the first of the three, though the last of the ten, to surrender; and
wof wooof wf wof wooof, woooof wof woof wf wof wof, wf wooooooof; wof

thereby secure whatever small chance of pardon such conduct might merit.
wooooof woooof woooooof wooof woooof wf woooof woof wooooof wooof wooof.

But when Steelkilt made known his determination still to lead them to
Wof woof Wooooooof woof wooof wof wooooooooooof wooof wf woof woof wf

the last, they in some way, by some subtle chemistry of villany, mixed
wof woof, woof wf woof wof, wf woof woooof wooooooof wf wooooof, wooof

their before secret treacheries together; and when their leader
wooof woooof woooof wooooooooof woooooof; wof woof wooof woooof

fell into a doze, verbally opened their souls to each other in three
woof woof w woof, woooooof woooof wooof wooof wf woof wooof wf wooof

sentences; and bound the sleeper with cords, and gagged him with cords;
wooooooof; wof wooof wof wooooof woof wooof, wof woooof wof woof wooof;

and shrieked out for the Captain at midnight.
wof woooooof wof wof wof Wooooof wf woooooof.




"Thinking murder at hand, and smelling in the dark for the blood, he and
"Woooooof woooof wf woof, wof woooooof wf wof woof wof wof wooof, wf wof

all his armed mates and harpooneers rushed for the forecastle. In a
wof wof wooof wooof wof wooooooooof woooof wof wof woooooooof. Wf w

few minutes the scuttle was opened, and, bound hand and foot, the still
wof wooooof wof wooooof wof woooof, wof, wooof woof wof woof, wof wooof

struggling ringleader was shoved up into the air by his perfidious
woooooooof woooooooof wof woooof wf woof wof wof wf wof woooooooof

allies, who at once claimed the honour of securing a man who had been
woooof, wof wf woof wooooof wof woooof wf woooooof w wof wof wof woof

fully ripe for murder. But all these were collared, and dragged along
wooof woof wof woooof. Wof wof wooof woof woooooof, wof wooooof wooof

the deck like dead cattle; and, side by side, were seized up into the
wof woof woof woof woooof; wof, woof wf woof, woof woooof wf woof wof

mizzen rigging, like three quarters of meat, and there they hung till
woooof wooooof, woof wooof woooooof wf woof, wof wooof woof woof woof

morning. 'Damn ye,' cried the Captain, pacing to and fro before them,
wooooof. 'Woof wf,' wooof wof Wooooof, woooof wf wof wof woooof woof,

'the vultures would not touch ye, ye villains!'
'wof woooooof wooof wof wooof wf, wf woooooof!'




"At sunrise he summoned all hands; and separating those who had rebelled
"Wf wooooof wf woooooof wof wooof; wof woooooooof wooof wof wof woooooof

from those who had taken no part in the mutiny, he told the former that
woof wooof wof wof wooof wf woof wf wof woooof, wf woof wof woooof woof

he had a good mind to flog them all round--thought, upon the whole,
wf wof w woof woof wf woof woof wof wooof--wooooof, woof wof wooof,

he would do so--he ought to--justice demanded it; but for the present,
wf wooof wf wf--wf wooof wf--wooooof woooooof wf; wof wof wof wooooof,

considering their timely surrender, he would let them go with a
wooooooooof wooof woooof wooooooof, wf wooof wof woof wf woof w

reprimand, which he accordingly administered in the vernacular.
wooooooof, wooof wf wooooooooof woooooooooof wf wof woooooooof.




"'But as for you, ye carrion rogues,' turning to the three men in the
"'Wof wf wof wof, wf wooooof woooof,' wooooof wf wof wooof wof wf wof

rigging--'for you, I mean to mince ye up for the try-pots;' and,
wooooof--'wof wof, W woof wf wooof wf wf wof wof wof-woof;' wof,

seizing a rope, he applied it with all his might to the backs of the
wooooof w woof, wf wooooof wf woof wof wof wooof wf wof wooof wf wof

two traitors, till they yelled no more, but lifelessly hung their heads
wof woooooof, woof woof woooof wf woof, wof woooooooof woof wooof wooof

sideways, as the two crucified thieves are drawn.
woooooof, wf wof wof wooooooof wooooof wof wooof.




"'My wrist is sprained with ye!' he cried, at last; 'but there is still
"'Wf wooof wf woooooof woof wf!' wf wooof, wf woof; 'wof wooof wf wooof

rope enough left for you, my fine bantam, that wouldn't give up. Take
woof woooof woof wof wof, wf woof woooof, woof woooof'w woof wf. Woof

that gag from his mouth, and let us hear what he can say for himself.'
woof wof woof wof wooof, wof wof wf woof woof wf wof wof wof wooooof.'




"For a moment the exhausted mutineer made a tremulous motion of his
"Wof w woooof wof wooooooof woooooof woof w wooooooof woooof wf wof

cramped jaws, and then painfully twisting round his head, said in a sort
wooooof woof, wof woof wooooooof woooooof wooof wof woof, woof wf w woof

of hiss, 'What I say is this--and mind it well--if you flog me, I murder
wf woof, 'Woof W wof wf woof--wof woof wf woof--wf wof woof wf, W woooof

you!'
wof!'




"'Say ye so? then see how ye frighten me'--and the Captain drew off with
"'Wof wf wf? woof wof wof wf woooooof wf'--wof wof Wooooof woof wof woof

the rope to strike.
wof woof wf woooof.




"'Best not,' hissed the Lakeman.
"'Woof wof,' woooof wof Wooooof.




"'But I must,'--and the rope was once more drawn back for the stroke.
"'Wof W woof,'--wof wof woof wof woof woof wooof woof wof wof woooof.




"Steelkilt here hissed out something, inaudible to all but the Captain;
"Wooooooof woof woooof wof wooooooof, wooooooof wf wof wof wof Wooooof;

who, to the amazement of all hands, started back, paced the deck rapidly
wof, wf wof wooooooof wf wof wooof, wooooof woof, wooof wof woof wooooof

two or three times, and then suddenly throwing down his rope, said, 'I
wof wf wooof wooof, wof woof woooooof woooooof woof wof woof, woof, 'W

won't do it--let him go--cut him down: d'ye hear?'
wof'w wf wf--wof wof wf--wof wof woof: w'wf woof?'




"But as the junior mates were hurrying to execute the order, a pale man,
"Wof wf wof woooof wooof woof woooooof wf wooooof wof wooof, w woof wof,

with a bandaged head, arrested them--Radney the chief mate. Ever since
woof w woooooof woof, woooooof woof--Woooof wof wooof woof. Woof wooof

the blow, he had lain in his berth; but that morning, hearing the tumult
wof woof, wf wof woof wf wof wooof; wof woof wooooof, wooooof wof woooof

on the deck, he had crept out, and thus far had watched the whole
wf wof woof, wf wof wooof wof, wof woof wof wof wooooof wof wooof

scene. Such was the state of his mouth, that he could hardly speak;
wooof. Woof wof wof wooof wf wof wooof, woof wf wooof woooof wooof;

but mumbling something about his being willing and able to do what the
wof woooooof wooooooof wooof wof wooof wooooof wof woof wf wf woof wof

captain dared not attempt, he snatched the rope and advanced to his
wooooof wooof wof wooooof, wf woooooof wof woof wof woooooof wf wof

pinioned foe.
woooooof wof.




"'You are a coward!' hissed the Lakeman.
"'Wof wof w woooof!' woooof wof Wooooof.




"'So I am, but take that.' The mate was in the very act of striking,
"'Wf W wf, wof woof woof.' Wof woof wof wf wof woof wof wf woooooof,

when another hiss stayed his uplifted arm. He paused: and then pausing
woof wooooof woof woooof wof woooooof wof. Wf woooof: wof woof wooooof

no more, made good his word, spite of Steelkilt's threat, whatever that
wf woof, woof woof wof woof, wooof wf Wooooooof'w woooof, woooooof woof

might have been. The three men were then cut down, all hands were turned
wooof woof woof. Wof wooof wof woof woof wof woof, wof wooof woof woooof

to, and, sullenly worked by the moody seamen, the iron pumps clanged as
wf, wof, woooooof woooof wf wof wooof woooof, wof woof wooof wooooof wf

before.
woooof.




"Just after dark that day, when one watch had retired below, a clamor
"Woof wooof woof woof wof, woof wof wooof wof wooooof wooof, w woooof

was heard in the forecastle; and the two trembling traitors running up,
wof wooof wf wof woooooooof; wof wof wof wooooooof woooooof wooooof wf,

besieged the cabin door, saying they durst not consort with the crew.
woooooof wof wooof woof, woooof woof wooof wof wooooof woof wof woof.

Entreaties, cuffs, and kicks could not drive them back, so at their own
Woooooooof, wooof, wof wooof wooof wof wooof woof woof, wf wf wooof wof

instance they were put down in the ship's run for salvation. Still, no
woooooof woof woof wof woof wf wof woof'w wof wof wooooooof. Wooof, wf

sign of mutiny reappeared among the rest. On the contrary, it seemed,
woof wf woooof woooooooof wooof wof woof. Wf wof woooooof, wf woooof,

that mainly at Steelkilt's instigation, they had resolved to maintain
woof woooof wf Wooooooof'w wooooooooof, woof wof woooooof wf woooooof

the strictest peacefulness, obey all orders to the last, and, when the
wof wooooooof woooooooooof, woof wof woooof wf wof woof, wof, woof wof

ship reached port, desert her in a body. But in order to insure the
woof wooooof woof, woooof wof wf w woof. Wof wf wooof wf woooof wof

speediest end to the voyage, they all agreed to another thing--namely,
wooooooof wof wf wof woooof, woof wof woooof wf wooooof wooof--woooof,

not to sing out for whales, in case any should be discovered. For,
wof wf woof wof wof woooof, wf woof wof woooof wf woooooooof. Wof,

spite of her leak, and spite of all her other perils, the Town-Ho still
wooof wf wof woof, wof wooof wf wof wof wooof woooof, wof Woof-Wf wooof

maintained her mast-heads, and her captain was just as willing to
woooooooof wof woof-wooof, wof wof wooooof wof woof wf wooooof wf

lower for a fish that moment, as on the day his craft first struck the
wooof wof w woof woof woooof, wf wf wof wof wof wooof wooof woooof wof

cruising ground; and Radney the mate was quite as ready to change his
woooooof woooof; wof Woooof wof woof wof wooof wf wooof wf woooof wof

berth for a boat, and with his bandaged mouth seek to gag in death the
wooof wof w woof, wof woof wof woooooof wooof woof wf wof wf wooof wof

vital jaw of the whale.
wooof wof wf wof wooof.




"But though the Lakeman had induced the seamen to adopt this sort of
"Wof woooof wof Wooooof wof wooooof wof woooof wf wooof woof woof wf

passiveness in their conduct, he kept his own counsel (at least till all
wooooooooof wf wooof wooooof, wf woof wof wof wooooof (wf wooof woof wof

was over) concerning his own proper and private revenge upon the man who
wof woof) woooooooof wof wof woooof wof wooooof wooooof woof wof wof wof

had stung him in the ventricles of his heart. He was in Radney the chief
wof wooof wof wf wof woooooooof wf wof wooof. Wf wof wf Woooof wof wooof

mate's watch; and as if the infatuated man sought to run more than
woof'w wooof; wof wf wf wof woooooooof wof woooof wf wof woof woof

half way to meet his doom, after the scene at the rigging, he insisted,
woof wof wf woof wof woof, wooof wof wooof wf wof wooooof, wf woooooof,

against the express counsel of the captain, upon resuming the head
wooooof wof wooooof wooooof wf wof wooooof, woof woooooof wof woof

of his watch at night. Upon this, and one or two other circumstances,
wf wof wooof wf wooof. Woof woof, wof wof wf wof wooof wooooooooooof,

Steelkilt systematically built the plan of his revenge.
Wooooooof woooooooooooof wooof wof woof wf wof wooooof.




"During the night, Radney had an unseamanlike way of sitting on the
"Woooof wof wooof, Woooof wof wf woooooooooof wof wf wooooof wf wof

bulwarks of the quarter-deck, and leaning his arm upon the gunwale of
woooooof wf wof wooooof-woof, wof wooooof wof wof woof wof wooooof wf

the boat which was hoisted up there, a little above the ship's side.
wof woof wooof wof wooooof wf wooof, w woooof wooof wof woof'w woof.

In this attitude, it was well known, he sometimes dozed. There was a
Wf woof woooooof, wf wof woof wooof, wf wooooooof wooof. Wooof wof w

considerable vacancy between the boat and the ship, and down between
woooooooooof wooooof wooooof wof woof wof wof woof, wof woof wooooof

this was the sea. Steelkilt calculated his time, and found that his next
woof wof wof wof. Wooooooof woooooooof wof woof, wof wooof woof wof woof

trick at the helm would come round at two o'clock, in the morning of the
wooof wf wof woof wooof woof wooof wf wof w'wooof, wf wof wooooof wf wof

third day from that in which he had been betrayed. At his leisure,
wooof wof woof woof wf wooof wf wof woof woooooof. Wf wof wooooof,

he employed the interval in braiding something very carefully in his
wf woooooof wof woooooof wf woooooof wooooooof woof wooooooof wf wof

watches below.
wooooof wooof.




"'What are you making there?' said a shipmate.
"'Woof wof wof woooof wooof?' woof w woooooof.




"'What do you think? what does it look like?'
"'Woof wf wof wooof? woof woof wf woof woof?'




"'Like a lanyard for your bag; but it's an odd one, seems to me.'
"'Woof w wooooof wof woof wof; wof wf'w wf wof wof, wooof wf wf.'




"'Yes, rather oddish,' said the Lakeman, holding it at arm's length
"'Wof, woooof woooof,' woof wof Wooooof, wooooof wf wf wof'w woooof

before him; 'but I think it will answer. Shipmate, I haven't enough
woooof wof; 'wof W wooof wf woof woooof. Woooooof, W wooof'w woooof

twine,--have you any?'
wooof,--woof wof wof?'




"But there was none in the forecastle.
"Wof wooof wof woof wf wof woooooooof.




"'Then I must get some from old Rad;' and he rose to go aft.
"'Woof W woof wof woof woof wof Wof;' wof wf woof wf wf wof.




"'You don't mean to go a begging to HIM!' said a sailor.
"'Wof wof'w woof wf wf w wooooof wf WOF!' woof w woooof.




"'Why not? Do you think he won't do me a turn, when it's to help himself
"'Wof wof? Wf wof wooof wf wof'w wf wf w woof, woof wf'w wf woof wooooof

in the end, shipmate?' and going to the mate, he looked at him
wf wof wof, woooooof?' wof wooof wf wof woof, wf woooof wf wof

quietly, and asked him for some twine to mend his hammock. It was given
wooooof, wof wooof wof wof woof wooof wf woof wof wooooof. Wf wof wooof

him--neither twine nor lanyard were seen again; but the next night
wof--wooooof wooof wof wooooof woof woof wooof; wof wof woof wooof

an iron ball, closely netted, partly rolled from the pocket of the
wf woof woof, wooooof woooof, woooof woooof woof wof woooof wf wof

Lakeman's monkey jacket, as he was tucking the coat into his hammock for
Wooooof'w woooof woooof, wf wf wof wooooof wof woof woof wof wooooof wof

a pillow. Twenty-four hours after, his trick at the silent helm--nigh
w woooof. Woooof-woof wooof wooof, wof wooof wf wof woooof woof--woof

to the man who was apt to doze over the grave always ready dug to
wf wof wof wof wof wof wf woof woof wof wooof woooof wooof wof wf

the seaman's hand--that fatal hour was then to come; and in the
wof woooof'w woof--woof wooof woof wof woof wf woof; wof wf wof

fore-ordaining soul of Steelkilt, the mate was already stark and
woof-wooooooof woof wf Wooooooof, wof woof wof wooooof wooof wof

stretched as a corpse, with his forehead crushed in.
wooooooof wf w woooof, woof wof woooooof wooooof wf.




"But, gentlemen, a fool saved the would-be murderer from the bloody
"Wof, wooooooof, w woof wooof wof wooof-wf woooooof woof wof woooof

deed he had planned. Yet complete revenge he had, and without being the
woof wf wof wooooof. Wof woooooof wooooof wf wof, wof wooooof wooof wof

avenger. For by a mysterious fatality, Heaven itself seemed to step in
wooooof. Wof wf w woooooooof woooooof, Woooof woooof woooof wf woof wf

to take out of his hands into its own the damning thing he would have
wf woof wof wf wof wooof woof wof wof wof wooooof wooof wf wooof woof

done.
woof.




"It was just between daybreak and sunrise of the morning of the second
"Wf wof woof wooooof woooooof wof wooooof wf wof wooooof wf wof woooof

day, when they were washing down the decks, that a stupid Teneriffe man,
wof, woof woof woof wooooof woof wof wooof, woof w woooof Wooooooof wof,

drawing water in the main-chains, all at once shouted out, 'There she
wooooof wooof wf wof woof-woooof, wof wf woof wooooof wof, 'Wooof wof

rolls! there she rolls!' Jesu, what a whale! It was Moby Dick.
wooof! wooof wof wooof!' Woof, woof w wooof! Wf wof Woof Woof.




"'Moby Dick!' cried Don Sebastian; 'St. Dominic! Sir sailor, but do
"'Woof Woof!' wooof Wof Wooooooof; 'Wf. Wooooof! Wof woooof, wof wf

whales have christenings? Whom call you Moby Dick?'
woooof woof woooooooooof? Woof woof wof Woof Woof?'




"'A very white, and famous, and most deadly immortal monster, Don;--but
"'W woof wooof, wof woooof, wof woof woooof woooooof wooooof, Wof;--wof

that would be too long a story.'
woof wooof wf wof woof w wooof.'




"'How? how?' cried all the young Spaniards, crowding.
"'Wof? wof?' wooof wof wof wooof Wooooooof, woooooof.




"'Nay, Dons, Dons--nay, nay! I cannot rehearse that now. Let me get more
"'Wof, Woof, Woof--wof, wof! W woooof woooooof woof wof. Wof wf wof woof

into the air, Sirs.'
woof wof wof, Woof.'




"'The chicha! the chicha!' cried Don Pedro; 'our vigorous friend looks
"'Wof woooof! wof woooof!' wooof Wof Wooof; 'wof woooooof woooof wooof

faint;--fill up his empty glass!'
wooof;--woof wf wof wooof wooof!'




"No need, gentlemen; one moment, and I proceed.--Now, gentlemen,
"Wf woof, wooooooof; wof woooof, wof W wooooof.--Wof, wooooooof,

so suddenly perceiving the snowy whale within fifty yards of the
wf woooooof woooooooof wof wooof wooof woooof wooof wooof wf wof

ship--forgetful of the compact among the crew--in the excitement of the
woof--wooooooof wf wof wooooof wooof wof woof--wf wof woooooooof wf wof

moment, the Teneriffe man had instinctively and involuntarily lifted
woooof, wof Wooooooof wof wof wooooooooooof wof wooooooooooof woooof

his voice for the monster, though for some little time past it had been
wof wooof wof wof wooooof, woooof wof woof woooof woof woof wf wof woof

plainly beheld from the three sullen mast-heads. All was now a phrensy.
wooooof woooof woof wof wooof woooof woof-wooof. Wof wof wof w wooooof.

'The White Whale--the White Whale!' was the cry from captain, mates,
'Wof Wooof Wooof--wof Wooof Wooof!' wof wof wof woof wooooof, wooof,

and harpooneers, who, undeterred by fearful rumours, were all anxious
wof wooooooooof, wof, woooooooof wf wooooof wooooof, woof wof wooooof

to capture so famous and precious a fish; while the dogged crew eyed
wf wooooof wf woooof wof woooooof w woof; wooof wof woooof woof woof

askance, and with curses, the appalling beauty of the vast milky mass,
wooooof, wof woof woooof, wof wooooooof woooof wf wof woof wooof woof,

that lit up by a horizontal spangling sun, shifted and glistened like
woof wof wf wf w woooooooof wooooooof wof, wooooof wof wooooooof woof

a living opal in the blue morning sea. Gentlemen, a strange fatality
w woooof woof wf wof woof wooooof wof. Wooooooof, w wooooof woooooof

pervades the whole career of these events, as if verily mapped out
woooooof wof wooof woooof wf wooof woooof, wf wf woooof woooof wof

before the world itself was charted. The mutineer was the bowsman of the
woooof wof wooof woooof wof wooooof. Wof woooooof wof wof wooooof wf wof

mate, and when fast to a fish, it was his duty to sit next him, while
woof, wof woof woof wf w woof, wf wof wof woof wf wof woof wof, wooof

Radney stood up with his lance in the prow, and haul in or slacken
Woooof wooof wf woof wof wooof wf wof woof, wof woof wf wf wooooof

the line, at the word of command. Moreover, when the four boats were
wof woof, wf wof woof wf wooooof. Woooooof, woof wof woof wooof woof

lowered, the mate's got the start; and none howled more fiercely with
wooooof, wof woof'w wof wof wooof; wof woof woooof woof woooooof woof

delight than did Steelkilt, as he strained at his oar. After a stiff
wooooof woof wof Wooooooof, wf wf woooooof wf wof wof. Wooof w wooof

pull, their harpooneer got fast, and, spear in hand, Radney sprang to
woof, wooof woooooooof wof woof, wof, wooof wf woof, Woooof woooof wf

the bow. He was always a furious man, it seems, in a boat. And now his
wof wof. Wf wof woooof w wooooof wof, wf wooof, wf w woof. Wof wof wof

bandaged cry was, to beach him on the whale's topmost back. Nothing
woooooof wof wof, wf wooof wof wf wof wooof'w wooooof woof. Wooooof

loath, his bowsman hauled him up and up, through a blinding foam that
wooof, wof wooooof woooof wof wf wof wf, wooooof w woooooof woof woof

blent two whitenesses together; till of a sudden the boat struck as
wooof wof wooooooooof woooooof; woof wf w woooof wof woof woooof wf

against a sunken ledge, and keeling over, spilled out the standing mate.
wooooof w woooof wooof, wof wooooof woof, wooooof wof wof woooooof woof.

That instant, as he fell on the whale's slippery back, the boat righted,
Woof wooooof, wf wf woof wf wof wooof'w woooooof woof, wof woof wooooof,

and was dashed aside by the swell, while Radney was tossed over into the
wof wof woooof wooof wf wof wooof, wooof Woooof wof woooof woof woof wof

sea, on the other flank of the whale. He struck out through the spray,
wof, wf wof wooof wooof wf wof wooof. Wf woooof wof wooooof wof wooof,

and, for an instant, was dimly seen through that veil, wildly seeking to
wof, wof wf wooooof, wof wooof woof wooooof woof woof, woooof wooooof wf

remove himself from the eye of Moby Dick. But the whale rushed round
woooof wooooof woof wof wof wf Woof Woof. Wof wof wooof woooof wooof

in a sudden maelstrom; seized the swimmer between his jaws; and rearing
wf w woooof wooooooof; woooof wof wooooof wooooof wof woof; wof wooooof

high up with him, plunged headlong again, and went down.
woof wf woof wof, wooooof woooooof wooof, wof woof woof.




"Meantime, at the first tap of the boat's bottom, the Lakeman had
"Woooooof, wf wof wooof wof wf wof woof'w woooof, wof Wooooof wof

slackened the line, so as to drop astern from the whirlpool; calmly
wooooooof wof woof, wf wf wf woof woooof woof wof wooooooof; woooof

looking on, he thought his own thoughts. But a sudden, terrific,
wooooof wf, wf wooooof wof wof woooooof. Wof w woooof, woooooof,

downward jerking of the boat, quickly brought his knife to the line. He
woooooof wooooof wf wof woof, wooooof wooooof wof wooof wf wof woof. Wf

cut it; and the whale was free. But, at some distance, Moby Dick rose
wof wf; wof wof wooof wof woof. Wof, wf woof woooooof, Woof Woof woof

again, with some tatters of Radney's red woollen shirt, caught in the
wooof, woof woof wooooof wf Woooof'w wof wooooof wooof, woooof wf wof

teeth that had destroyed him. All four boats gave chase again; but the
wooof woof wof wooooooof wof. Wof woof wooof woof wooof wooof; wof wof

whale eluded them, and finally wholly disappeared.
wooof woooof woof, wof wooooof woooof wooooooooof.




"In good time, the Town-Ho reached her port--a savage, solitary
"Wf woof woof, wof Woof-Wf wooooof wof woof--w woooof, woooooof

place--where no civilized creature resided. There, headed by the
wooof--wooof wf wooooooof woooooof wooooof. Wooof, woooof wf wof

Lakeman, all but five or six of the foremastmen deliberately deserted
Wooooof, wof wof woof wf wof wf wof wooooooooof woooooooooof woooooof

among the palms; eventually, as it turned out, seizing a large double
wooof wof wooof; woooooooof, wf wf woooof wof, wooooof w wooof woooof

war-canoe of the savages, and setting sail for some other harbor.
wof-wooof wf wof wooooof, wof wooooof woof wof woof wooof woooof.




"The ship's company being reduced to but a handful, the captain called
"Wof woof'w wooooof wooof wooooof wf wof w wooooof, wof wooooof woooof

upon the Islanders to assist him in the laborious business of heaving
woof wof Wooooooof wf woooof wof wf wof wooooooof woooooof wf wooooof

down the ship to stop the leak. But to such unresting vigilance over
woof wof woof wf woof wof woof. Wof wf woof wooooooof wooooooof woof

their dangerous allies was this small band of whites necessitated, both
wooof wooooooof woooof wof woof wooof woof wf woooof woooooooooof, woof

by night and by day, and so extreme was the hard work they underwent,
wf wooof wof wf wof, wof wf wooooof wof wof woof woof woof wooooooof,

that upon the vessel being ready again for sea, they were in such a
woof woof wof woooof wooof wooof wooof wof wof, woof woof wf woof w

weakened condition that the captain durst not put off with them in so
woooooof wooooooof woof wof wooooof wooof wof wof wof woof woof wf wf

heavy a vessel. After taking counsel with his officers, he anchored the
wooof w woooof. Wooof woooof wooooof woof wof woooooof, wf woooooof wof

ship as far off shore as possible; loaded and ran out his two cannon
woof wf wof wof wooof wf woooooof; woooof wof wof wof wof wof woooof

from the bows; stacked his muskets on the poop; and warning the
woof wof woof; wooooof wof wooooof wf wof woof; wof wooooof wof

Islanders not to approach the ship at their peril, took one man with
Wooooooof wof wf woooooof wof woof wf wooof wooof, woof wof wof woof

him, and setting the sail of his best whale-boat, steered straight
wof, wof wooooof wof woof wf wof woof wooof-woof, wooooof woooooof

before the wind for Tahiti, five hundred miles distant, to procure a
woooof wof woof wof Woooof, woof wooooof wooof wooooof, wf wooooof w

reinforcement to his crew.
wooooooooooof wf wof woof.




"On the fourth day of the sail, a large canoe was descried, which seemed
"Wf wof woooof wof wf wof woof, w wooof wooof wof woooooof, wooof woooof

to have touched at a low isle of corals. He steered away from it; but
wf woof wooooof wf w wof woof wf woooof. Wf wooooof woof woof wf; wof

the savage craft bore down on him; and soon the voice of Steelkilt
wof woooof wooof woof woof wf wof; wof woof wof wooof wf Wooooooof

hailed him to heave to, or he would run him under water. The captain
woooof wof wf wooof wf, wf wf wooof wof wof wooof wooof. Wof wooooof

presented a pistol. With one foot on each prow of the yoked war-canoes,
wooooooof w woooof. Woof wof woof wf woof woof wf wof wooof wof-woooof,

the Lakeman laughed him to scorn; assuring him that if the pistol so
wof Wooooof wooooof wof wf wooof; woooooof wof woof wf wof woooof wf

much as clicked in the lock, he would bury him in bubbles and foam.
woof wf wooooof wf wof woof, wf wooof woof wof wf wooooof wof woof.




"'What do you want of me?' cried the captain.
"'Woof wf wof woof wf wf?' wooof wof wooooof.




"'Where are you bound? and for what are you bound?' demanded Steelkilt;
"'Wooof wof wof wooof? wof wof woof wof wof wooof?' woooooof Wooooooof;

'no lies.'
'wf woof.'




"'I am bound to Tahiti for more men.'
"'W wf wooof wf Woooof wof woof wof.'




"'Very good. Let me board you a moment--I come in peace.' With that he
"'Woof woof. Wof wf wooof wof w woooof--W woof wf wooof.' Woof woof wf

leaped from the canoe, swam to the boat; and climbing the gunwale, stood
woooof woof wof wooof, woof wf wof woof; wof woooooof wof wooooof, wooof

face to face with the captain.
woof wf woof woof wof wooooof.




"'Cross your arms, sir; throw back your head. Now, repeat after me.
"'Wooof woof woof, wof; wooof woof woof woof. Wof, woooof wooof wf.

As soon as Steelkilt leaves me, I swear to beach this boat on yonder
Wf woof wf Wooooooof woooof wf, W wooof wf wooof woof woof wf woooof

island, and remain there six days. If I do not, may lightning strike
woooof, wof woooof wooof wof woof. Wf W wf wof, wof wooooooof woooof

me!'
wf!'




"'A pretty scholar,' laughed the Lakeman. 'Adios, Senor!' and leaping
"'W woooof wooooof,' wooooof wof Wooooof. 'Wooof, Wooof!' wof wooooof

into the sea, he swam back to his comrades.
woof wof wof, wf woof woof wf wof woooooof.




"Watching the boat till it was fairly beached, and drawn up to the
"Woooooof wof woof woof wf wof woooof wooooof, wof wooof wf wf wof

roots of the cocoa-nut trees, Steelkilt made sail again, and in due time
wooof wf wof wooof-wof wooof, Wooooooof woof woof wooof, wof wf wof woof

arrived at Tahiti, his own place of destination. There, luck befriended
wooooof wf Woooof, wof wof wooof wf wooooooooof. Wooof, woof woooooooof

him; two ships were about to sail for France, and were providentially
wof; wof wooof woof wooof wf woof wof Woooof, wof woof woooooooooooof

in want of precisely that number of men which the sailor headed. They
wf woof wf wooooooof woof woooof wf wof wooof wof woooof woooof. Woof

embarked; and so for ever got the start of their former captain, had he
woooooof; wof wf wof woof wof wof wooof wf wooof woooof wooooof, wof wf

been at all minded to work them legal retribution.
woof wf wof woooof wf woof woof wooof wooooooooof.




"Some ten days after the French ships sailed, the whale-boat arrived,
"Woof wof woof wooof wof Woooof wooof woooof, wof wooof-woof wooooof,

and the captain was forced to enlist some of the more civilized
wof wof wooooof wof woooof wf woooof woof wf wof woof wooooooof

Tahitians, who had been somewhat used to the sea. Chartering a small
Wooooooof, wof wof woof woooooof woof wf wof wof. Woooooooof w wooof

native schooner, he returned with them to his vessel; and finding all
woooof woooooof, wf woooooof woof woof wf wof woooof; wof wooooof wof

right there, again resumed his cruisings.
wooof wooof, wooof wooooof wof wooooooof.




"Where Steelkilt now is, gentlemen, none know; but upon the island of
"Wooof Wooooooof wof wf, wooooooof, woof woof; wof woof wof woooof wf

Nantucket, the widow of Radney still turns to the sea which refuses
Wooooooof, wof wooof wf Woooof wooof wooof wf wof wof wooof wooooof

to give up its dead; still in dreams sees the awful white whale that
wf woof wf wof woof; wooof wf woooof woof wof wooof wooof wooof woof

destroyed him.
wooooooof wof.




"'Are you through?' said Don Sebastian, quietly.
"'Wof wof wooooof?' woof Wof Wooooooof, wooooof.




"'I am, Don.'
"'W wf, Wof.'




"'Then I entreat you, tell me if to the best of your own convictions,
"'Woof W wooooof wof, woof wf wf wf wof woof wf woof wof wooooooooof,

this your story is in substance really true? It is so passing wonderful!
woof woof wooof wf wf wooooooof woooof woof? Wf wf wf wooooof wooooooof!

Did you get it from an unquestionable source? Bear with me if I seem to
Wof wof wof wf woof wf woooooooooooof woooof? Woof woof wf wf W woof wf

press.'
wooof.'




"'Also bear with all of us, sir sailor; for we all join in Don
"'Woof woof woof wof wf wf, wof woooof; wof wf wof woof wf Wof

Sebastian's suit,' cried the company, with exceeding interest.
Wooooooof'w woof,' wooof wof wooooof, woof wooooooof woooooof.




"'Is there a copy of the Holy Evangelists in the Golden Inn, gentlemen?'
"'Wf wooof w woof wf wof Woof Wooooooooof wf wof Woooof Wof, wooooooof?'




"'Nay,' said Don Sebastian; 'but I know a worthy priest near by, who
"'Wof,' woof Wof Wooooooof; 'wof W woof w woooof woooof woof wf, wof

will quickly procure one for me. I go for it; but are you well advised?
woof wooooof wooooof wof wof wf. W wf wof wf; wof wof wof woof wooooof?

this may grow too serious.'
woof wof woof wof wooooof.'




"'Will you be so good as to bring the priest also, Don?'
"'Woof wof wf wf woof wf wf wooof wof woooof woof, Wof?'




"'Though there are no Auto-da-Fe's in Lima now,' said one of the company
"'Woooof wooof wof wf Woof-wf-Wf'w wf Woof wof,' woof wof wf wof wooooof

to another; 'I fear our sailor friend runs risk of the archiepiscopacy.
wf wooooof; 'W woof wof woooof woooof woof woof wf wof wooooooooooooof.

Let us withdraw more out of the moonlight. I see no need of this.'
Wof wf woooooof woof wof wf wof wooooooof. W wof wf woof wf woof.'




"'Excuse me for running after you, Don Sebastian; but may I also beg
"'Woooof wf wof wooooof wooof wof, Wof Wooooooof; wof wof W woof wof

that you will be particular in procuring the largest sized Evangelists
woof wof woof wf woooooooof wf wooooooof wof wooooof wooof Wooooooooof

you can.'
wof wof.'




"'This is the priest, he brings you the Evangelists,' said Don Sebastian,
"'Woof wf wof woooof, wf woooof wof wof Wooooooooof,' woof Wof Wooooooof,

gravely, returning with a tall and solemn figure.
wooooof, wooooooof woof w woof wof woooof woooof.




"'Let me remove my hat. Now, venerable priest, further into the light,
"'Wof wf woooof wf wof. Wof, wooooooof woooof, wooooof woof wof wooof,

and hold the Holy Book before me that I may touch it.
wof woof wof Woof Woof woooof wf woof W wof wooof wf.




"'So help me Heaven, and on my honour the story I have told ye,
"'Wf woof wf Woooof, wof wf wf woooof wof wooof W woof woof wf,

gentlemen, is in substance and its great items, true. I know it to be
wooooooof, wf wf wooooooof wof wof wooof wooof, woof. W woof wf wf wf

true; it happened on this ball; I trod the ship; I knew the crew; I have
woof; wf woooooof wf woof woof; W woof wof woof; W woof wof woof; W woof

seen and talked with Steelkilt since the death of Radney.'"
woof wof woooof woof Wooooooof wooof wof wooof wf Woooof.'"










CHAPTER 55. Of the Monstrous Pictures of Whales.
WOOOOOF wf. Wf wof Wooooooof Woooooof wf Woooof.







I shall ere long paint to you as well as one can without canvas,
W wooof wof woof wooof wf wof wf woof wf wof wof wooooof woooof,

something like the true form of the whale as he actually appears to the
wooooooof woof wof woof woof wf wof wooof wf wf woooooof wooooof wf wof

eye of the whaleman when in his own absolute body the whale is moored
wof wf wof woooooof woof wf wof wof woooooof woof wof wooof wf woooof

alongside the whale-ship so that he can be fairly stepped upon there.
wooooooof wof wooof-woof wf woof wf wof wf woooof wooooof woof wooof.

It may be worth while, therefore, previously to advert to those
Wf wof wf wooof wooof, wooooooof, woooooooof wf woooof wf wooof

curious imaginary portraits of him which even down to the present day
wooooof wooooooof wooooooof wf wof wooof woof woof wf wof wooooof wof

confidently challenge the faith of the landsman. It is time to set the
wooooooooof wooooooof wof wooof wf wof woooooof. Wf wf woof wf wof wof

world right in this matter, by proving such pictures of the whale all
wooof wooof wf woof woooof, wf wooooof woof woooooof wf wof wooof wof

wrong.
wooof.




It may be that the primal source of all those pictorial delusions will
Wf wof wf woof wof woooof woooof wf wof wooof wooooooof wooooooof woof

be found among the oldest Hindoo, Egyptian, and Grecian sculptures. For
wf wooof wooof wof woooof Woooof, Woooooof, wof Wooooof woooooooof. Wof

ever since those inventive but unscrupulous times when on the marble
woof wooof wooof wooooooof wof woooooooooof wooof woof wf wof woooof

panellings of temples, the pedestals of statues, and on shields,
woooooooof wf wooooof, wof wooooooof wf wooooof, wof wf wooooof,

medallions, cups, and coins, the dolphin was drawn in scales of
woooooooof, woof, wof wooof, wof wooooof wof wooof wf woooof wf

chain-armor like Saladin's, and a helmeted head like St. George's; ever
wooof-wooof woof Wooooof'w, wof w woooooof woof woof Wf. Woooof'w; woof

since then has something of the same sort of license prevailed, not
wooof woof wof wooooooof wf wof woof woof wf wooooof wooooooof, wof

only in most popular pictures of the whale, but in many scientific
woof wf woof wooooof woooooof wf wof wooof, wof wf woof woooooooof

presentations of him.
wooooooooooof wf wof.




Now, by all odds, the most ancient extant portrait anyways purporting to
Wof, wf wof woof, wof woof wooooof woooof woooooof wooooof woooooooof wf

be the whale's, is to be found in the famous cavern-pagoda of Elephanta,
wf wof wooof'w, wf wf wf wooof wf wof woooof woooof-woooof wf Wooooooof,

in India. The Brahmins maintain that in the almost endless sculptures of
wf Wooof. Wof Woooooof woooooof woof wf wof woooof wooooof woooooooof wf

that immemorial pagoda, all the trades and pursuits, every conceivable
woof woooooooof woooof, wof wof woooof wof woooooof, wooof wooooooooof

avocation of man, were prefigured ages before any of them actually came
wooooooof wf wof, woof woooooooof woof woooof wof wf woof woooooof woof

into being. No wonder then, that in some sort our noble profession of
woof wooof. Wf woooof woof, woof wf woof woof wof wooof woooooooof wf

whaling should have been there shadowed forth. The Hindoo whale
wooooof woooof woof woof wooof woooooof wooof. Wof Woooof wooof

referred to, occurs in a separate department of the wall, depicting the
woooooof wf, woooof wf w woooooof woooooooof wf wof woof, wooooooof wof

incarnation of Vishnu in the form of leviathan, learnedly known as the
wooooooooof wf Woooof wf wof woof wf wooooooof, wooooooof wooof wf wof

Matse Avatar. But though this sculpture is half man and half whale, so
Wooof Woooof. Wof woooof woof wooooooof wf woof wof wof woof wooof, wf

as only to give the tail of the latter, yet that small section of him is
wf woof wf woof wof woof wf wof woooof, wof woof wooof wooooof wf wof wf

all wrong. It looks more like the tapering tail of an anaconda, than the
wof wooof. Wf wooof woof woof wof woooooof woof wf wf woooooof, woof wof

broad palms of the true whale's majestic flukes.
wooof wooof wf wof woof wooof'w woooooof woooof.




But go to the old Galleries, and look now at a great Christian painter's
Wof wf wf wof wof Wooooooof, wof woof wof wf w wooof Wooooooof wooooof'w

portrait of this fish; for he succeeds no better than the antediluvian
woooooof wf woof woof; wof wf woooooof wf woooof woof wof woooooooooof

Hindoo. It is Guido's picture of Perseus rescuing Andromeda from the
Woooof. Wf wf Wooof'w wooooof wf Wooooof woooooof Wooooooof woof wof

sea-monster or whale. Where did Guido get the model of such a strange
wof-wooooof wf wooof. Wooof wof Wooof wof wof wooof wf woof w wooooof

creature as that? Nor does Hogarth, in painting the same scene in his
woooooof wf woof? Wof woof Wooooof, wf woooooof wof woof wooof wf wof

own "Perseus Descending," make out one whit better. The huge corpulence
wof "Wooooof Woooooooof," woof wof wof woof woooof. Wof woof woooooooof

of that Hogarthian monster undulates on the surface, scarcely drawing
wf woof Woooooooof wooooof wooooooof wf wof wooooof, woooooof wooooof

one inch of water. It has a sort of howdah on its back, and its
wof woof wf wooof. Wf wof w woof wf woooof wf wof woof, wof wof

distended tusked mouth into which the billows are rolling, might be
wooooooof woooof wooof woof wooof wof wooooof wof wooooof, wooof wf

taken for the Traitors' Gate leading from the Thames by water into the
wooof wof wof Woooooof' Woof wooooof woof wof Woooof wf wooof woof wof

Tower. Then, there are the Prodromus whales of old Scotch Sibbald, and
Wooof. Woof, wooof wof wof Wooooooof woooof wf wof Woooof Wooooof, wof

Jonah's whale, as depicted in the prints of old Bibles and the cuts of
Wooof'w wooof, wf woooooof wf wof woooof wf wof Woooof wof wof woof wf

old primers. What shall be said of these? As for the book-binder's whale
wof wooooof. Woof wooof wf woof wf wooof? Wf wof wof woof-woooof'w wooof

winding like a vine-stalk round the stock of a descending anchor--as
wooooof woof w woof-wooof wooof wof wooof wf w woooooooof woooof--wf

stamped and gilded on the backs and title-pages of many books both
wooooof wof woooof wf wof wooof wof wooof-wooof wf woof wooof woof

old and new--that is a very picturesque but purely fabulous creature,
wof wof wof--woof wf w woof wooooooooof wof woooof woooooof woooooof,

imitated, I take it, from the like figures on antique vases.
woooooof, W woof wf, woof wof woof wooooof wf wooooof wooof.

Though universally denominated a dolphin, I nevertheless call this
Woooof wooooooooof wooooooooof w wooooof, W woooooooooof woof woof

book-binder's fish an attempt at a whale; because it was so intended
woof-woooof'w woof wf wooooof wf w wooof; wooooof wf wof wf woooooof

when the device was first introduced. It was introduced by an old
woof wof woooof wof wooof woooooooof. Wf wof woooooooof wf wf wof

Italian publisher somewhere about the 15th century, during the Revival
Wooooof wooooooof wooooooof wooof wof woof wooooof, woooof wof Wooooof

of Learning; and in those days, and even down to a comparatively
wf Woooooof; wof wf wooof woof, wof woof woof wf w wooooooooooof

late period, dolphins were popularly supposed to be a species of the
woof woooof, woooooof woof wooooooof woooooof wf wf w wooooof wf wof

Leviathan.
Wooooooof.




In the vignettes and other embellishments of some ancient books you will
Wf wof wooooooof wof wooof woooooooooooof wf woof wooooof wooof wof woof

at times meet with very curious touches at the whale, where all manner
wf wooof woof woof woof wooooof wooooof wf wof wooof, wooof wof woooof

of spouts, jets d'eau, hot springs and cold, Saratoga and Baden-Baden,
wf woooof, woof w'wof, wof wooooof wof woof, Woooooof wof Wooof-Wooof,

come bubbling up from his unexhausted brain. In the title-page of the
woof woooooof wf woof wof wooooooooof wooof. Wf wof wooof-woof wf wof

original edition of the "Advancement of Learning" you will find some
woooooof wooooof wf wof "Wooooooooof wf Woooooof" wof woof woof woof

curious whales.
wooooof woooof.




But quitting all these unprofessional attempts, let us glance at those
Wof woooooof wof wooof woooooooooooof woooooof, wof wf woooof wf wooof

pictures of leviathan purporting to be sober, scientific delineations,
woooooof wf wooooooof woooooooof wf wf wooof, woooooooof woooooooooof,

by those who know. In old Harris's collection of voyages there are some
wf wooof wof woof. Wf wof Woooof'w woooooooof wf wooooof wooof wof woof

plates of whales extracted from a Dutch book of voyages, A.D. 1671,
woooof wf woooof wooooooof woof w Wooof woof wf wooooof, W.W. woof,

entitled "A Whaling Voyage to Spitzbergen in the ship Jonas in the
woooooof "W Wooooof Woooof wf Wooooooooof wf wof woof Wooof wf wof

Whale, Peter Peterson of Friesland, master." In one of those plates the
Wooof, Wooof Woooooof wf Wooooooof, woooof." Wf wof wf wooof woooof wof

whales, like great rafts of logs, are represented lying among ice-isles,
woooof, woof wooof wooof wf woof, wof wooooooooof wooof wooof wof-wooof,

with white bears running over their living backs. In another plate, the
woof wooof wooof wooooof woof wooof woooof wooof. Wf wooooof wooof, wof

prodigious blunder is made of representing the whale with perpendicular
woooooooof wooooof wf woof wf woooooooooof wof wooof woof wooooooooooof

flukes.
woooof.




Then again, there is an imposing quarto, written by one Captain Colnett,
Woof wooof, wooof wf wf woooooof woooof, wooooof wf wof Wooooof Wooooof,

a Post Captain in the English navy, entitled "A Voyage round Cape Horn
w Woof Wooooof wf wof Wooooof woof, woooooof "W Woooof wooof Woof Woof

into the South Seas, for the purpose of extending the Spermaceti Whale
woof wof Wooof Woof, wof wof wooooof wf wooooooof wof Woooooooof Wooof

Fisheries." In this book is an outline purporting to be a "Picture of
Wooooooof." Wf woof woof wf wf wooooof woooooooof wf wf w "Wooooof wf

a Physeter or Spermaceti whale, drawn by scale from one killed on the
w Woooooof wf Woooooooof wooof, wooof wf wooof woof wof woooof wf wof

coast of Mexico, August, 1793, and hoisted on deck." I doubt not the
wooof wf Woooof, Woooof, woof, wof wooooof wf woof." W wooof wof wof

captain had this veracious picture taken for the benefit of his marines.
wooooof wof woof wooooooof wooooof wooof wof wof wooooof wf wof wooooof.

To mention but one thing about it, let me say that it has an eye which
Wf wooooof wof wof wooof wooof wf, wof wf wof woof wf wof wf wof wooof

applied, according to the accompanying scale, to a full grown sperm
wooooof, wooooooof wf wof woooooooooof wooof, wf w woof wooof wooof

whale, would make the eye of that whale a bow-window some five feet
wooof, wooof woof wof wof wf woof wooof w wof-woooof woof woof woof

long. Ah, my gallant captain, why did ye not give us Jonah looking out
woof. Wf, wf wooooof wooooof, wof wof wf wof woof wf Wooof wooooof wof

of that eye!
wf woof wof!




Nor are the most conscientious compilations of Natural History for
Wof wof wof woof wooooooooooof woooooooooof wf Wooooof Wooooof wof

the benefit of the young and tender, free from the same heinousness of
wof wooooof wf wof wooof wof woooof, woof woof wof woof wooooooooof wf

mistake. Look at that popular work "Goldsmith's Animated Nature." In the
wooooof. Woof wf woof wooooof woof "Wooooooof'w Woooooof Woooof." Wf wof

abridged London edition of 1807, there are plates of an alleged "whale"
woooooof Woooof wooooof wf woof, wooof wof woooof wf wf wooooof "wooof"

and a "narwhale." I do not wish to seem inelegant, but this unsightly
wof w "woooooof." W wf wof woof wf woof wooooooof, wof woof wooooooof

whale looks much like an amputated sow; and, as for the narwhale, one
wooof wooof woof woof wf wooooooof wof; wof, wf wof wof woooooof, wof

glimpse at it is enough to amaze one, that in this nineteenth century
wooooof wf wf wf woooof wf wooof wof, woof wf woof woooooooof wooooof

such a hippogriff could be palmed for genuine upon any intelligent
woof w woooooooof wooof wf woooof wof wooooof woof wof wooooooooof

public of schoolboys.
woooof wf woooooooof.




Then, again, in 1825, Bernard Germain, Count de Lacepede, a great
Woof, wooof, wf woof, Wooooof Wooooof, Wooof wf Woooooof, w wooof

naturalist, published a scientific systemized whale book, wherein are
woooooooof, wooooooof w woooooooof woooooooof wooof woof, wooooof wof

several pictures of the different species of the Leviathan. All these
wooooof woooooof wf wof wooooooof wooooof wf wof Wooooooof. Wof wooof

are not only incorrect, but the picture of the Mysticetus or Greenland
wof wof woof wooooooof, wof wof wooooof wf wof Woooooooof wf Wooooooof

whale (that is to say, the Right whale), even Scoresby, a long
wooof (woof wf wf wof, wof Wooof wooof), woof Woooooof, w woof

experienced man as touching that species, declares not to have its
wooooooooof wof wf woooooof woof wooooof, woooooof wof wf woof wof

counterpart in nature.
wooooooooof wf woooof.




But the placing of the cap-sheaf to all this blundering business was
Wof wof wooooof wf wof wof-wooof wf wof woof woooooooof woooooof wof

reserved for the scientific Frederick Cuvier, brother to the famous
woooooof wof wof woooooooof Wooooooof Woooof, wooooof wf wof woooof

Baron. In 1836, he published a Natural History of Whales, in which he
Wooof. Wf woof, wf wooooooof w Wooooof Wooooof wf Woooof, wf wooof wf

gives what he calls a picture of the Sperm Whale. Before showing that
wooof woof wf wooof w wooooof wf wof Wooof Wooof. Woooof wooooof woof

picture to any Nantucketer, you had best provide for your summary
wooooof wf wof Wooooooooof, wof wof woof wooooof wof woof wooooof

retreat from Nantucket. In a word, Frederick Cuvier's Sperm Whale is not
wooooof woof Wooooooof. Wf w woof, Wooooooof Woooof'w Wooof Wooof wf wof

a Sperm Whale, but a squash. Of course, he never had the benefit of
w Wooof Wooof, wof w woooof. Wf woooof, wf wooof wof wof wooooof wf

a whaling voyage (such men seldom have), but whence he derived that
w wooooof woooof (woof wof woooof woof), wof woooof wf wooooof woof

picture, who can tell? Perhaps he got it as his scientific predecessor
wooooof, wof wof woof? Wooooof wf wof wf wf wof woooooooof wooooooooof

in the same field, Desmarest, got one of his authentic abortions; that
wf wof woof wooof, Wooooooof, wof wof wf wof wooooooof wooooooof; woof

is, from a Chinese drawing. And what sort of lively lads with the pencil
wf, woof w Wooooof wooooof. Wof woof woof wf woooof woof woof wof woooof

those Chinese are, many queer cups and saucers inform us.
wooof Wooooof wof, woof wooof woof wof wooooof woooof wf.




As for the sign-painters' whales seen in the streets hanging over the
Wf wof wof woof-woooooof' woooof woof wf wof wooooof wooooof woof wof

shops of oil-dealers, what shall be said of them? They are generally
wooof wf wof-wooooof, woof wooof wf woof wf woof? Woof wof wooooooof

Richard III. whales, with dromedary humps, and very savage; breakfasting
Wooooof WOF. woooof, woof wooooooof wooof, wof woof woooof; woooooooooof

on three or four sailor tarts, that is whaleboats full of mariners:
wf wooof wf woof woooof wooof, woof wf woooooooof woof wf woooooof:

their deformities floundering in seas of blood and blue paint.
wooof wooooooooof wooooooooof wf woof wf wooof wof woof wooof.




But these manifold mistakes in depicting the whale are not so very
Wof wooof woooooof woooooof wf wooooooof wof wooof wof wof wf woof

surprising after all. Consider! Most of the scientific drawings have
woooooooof wooof wof. Woooooof! Woof wf wof woooooooof woooooof woof

been taken from the stranded fish; and these are about as correct as a
woof wooof woof wof woooooof woof; wof wooof wof wooof wf wooooof wf w

drawing of a wrecked ship, with broken back, would correctly represent
wooooof wf w wooooof woof, woof woooof woof, wooof wooooooof wooooooof

the noble animal itself in all its undashed pride of hull and spars.
wof wooof woooof woooof wf wof wof woooooof wooof wf woof wof wooof.

Though elephants have stood for their full-lengths, the living Leviathan
Woooof wooooooof woof wooof wof wooof woof-wooooof, wof woooof Wooooooof

has never yet fairly floated himself for his portrait. The living whale,
wof wooof wof woooof wooooof wooooof wof wof woooooof. Wof woooof wooof,

in his full majesty and significance, is only to be seen at sea in
wf wof woof wooooof wof woooooooooof, wf woof wf wf woof wf wof wf

unfathomable waters; and afloat the vast bulk of him is out of sight,
woooooooooof woooof; wof woooof wof woof woof wf wof wf wof wf wooof,

like a launched line-of-battle ship; and out of that element it is a
woof w woooooof woof-wf-woooof woof; wof wof wf woof wooooof wf wf w

thing eternally impossible for mortal man to hoist him bodily into the
wooof wooooooof woooooooof wof woooof wof wf wooof wof woooof woof wof

air, so as to preserve all his mighty swells and undulations. And, not
wof, wf wf wf woooooof wof wof woooof woooof wof wooooooooof. Wof, wof

to speak of the highly presumable difference of contour between a young
wf wooof wf wof woooof woooooooof woooooooof wf wooooof wooooof w wooof

sucking whale and a full-grown Platonian Leviathan; yet, even in the
wooooof wooof wof w woof-wooof Wooooooof Wooooooof; wof, woof wf wof

case of one of those young sucking whales hoisted to a ship's deck, such
woof wf wof wf wooof wooof wooooof woooof wooooof wf w woof'w woof, woof

is then the outlandish, eel-like, limbered, varying shape of him, that
wf woof wof woooooooof, wof-woof, woooooof, wooooof wooof wf wof, woof

his precise expression the devil himself could not catch.
wof wooooof woooooooof wof wooof wooooof wooof wof wooof.




But it may be fancied, that from the naked skeleton of the stranded
Wof wf wof wf wooooof, woof woof wof wooof woooooof wf wof woooooof

whale, accurate hints may be derived touching his true form. Not at all.
wooof, woooooof wooof wof wf wooooof woooooof wof woof woof. Wof wf wof.

For it is one of the more curious things about this Leviathan, that
Wof wf wf wof wf wof woof wooooof woooof wooof woof Wooooooof, woof

his skeleton gives very little idea of his general shape. Though Jeremy
wof woooooof wooof woof woooof woof wf wof wooooof wooof. Woooof Woooof

Bentham's skeleton, which hangs for candelabra in the library of one of
Wooooof'w woooooof, wooof wooof wof woooooooof wf wof wooooof wf wof wf

his executors, correctly conveys the idea of a burly-browed utilitarian
wof wooooooof, wooooooof wooooof wof woof wf w wooof-woooof wooooooooof

old gentleman, with all Jeremy's other leading personal characteristics;
wof wooooooof, woof wof Woooof'w wooof wooooof woooooof wooooooooooooof;

yet nothing of this kind could be inferred from any leviathan's
wof wooooof wf woof woof wooof wf woooooof woof wof wooooooof'w

articulated bones. In fact, as the great Hunter says, the mere skeleton
wooooooooof wooof. Wf woof, wf wof wooof Woooof woof, wof woof woooooof

of the whale bears the same relation to the fully invested and padded
wf wof wooof wooof wof woof woooooof wf wof wooof woooooof wof woooof

animal as the insect does to the chrysalis that so roundingly envelopes
woooof wf wof woooof woof wf wof wooooooof woof wf woooooooof wooooooof

it. This peculiarity is strikingly evinced in the head, as in some
wf. Woof wooooooooof wf woooooooof wooooof wf wof woof, wf wf woof

part of this book will be incidentally shown. It is also very curiously
woof wf woof woof woof wf woooooooooof wooof. Wf wf woof woof wooooooof

displayed in the side fin, the bones of which almost exactly answer to
wooooooof wf wof woof wof, wof wooof wf wooof woooof wooooof woooof wf

the bones of the human hand, minus only the thumb. This fin has four
wof wooof wf wof wooof woof, wooof woof wof wooof. Woof wof wof woof

regular bone-fingers, the index, middle, ring, and little finger. But
wooooof woof-wooooof, wof wooof, woooof, woof, wof woooof woooof. Wof

all these are permanently lodged in their fleshy covering, as the human
wof wooof wof wooooooooof woooof wf wooof woooof woooooof, wf wof wooof

fingers in an artificial covering. "However recklessly the whale may
wooooof wf wf woooooooof woooooof. "Wooooof woooooooof wof wooof wof

sometimes serve us," said humorous Stubb one day, "he can never be truly
wooooooof wooof wf," woof woooooof Wooof wof wof, "wf wof wooof wf wooof

said to handle us without mittens."
woof wf woooof wf wooooof wooooof."




For all these reasons, then, any way you may look at it, you must needs
Wof wof wooof wooooof, woof, wof wof wof wof woof wf wf, wof woof wooof

conclude that the great Leviathan is that one creature in the world
woooooof woof wof wooof Wooooooof wf woof wof woooooof wf wof wooof

which must remain unpainted to the last. True, one portrait may hit
wooof woof woooof wooooooof wf wof woof. Woof, wof woooooof wof wof

the mark much nearer than another, but none can hit it with any very
wof woof woof woooof woof wooooof, wof woof wof wof wf woof wof woof

considerable degree of exactness. So there is no earthly way of finding
woooooooooof woooof wf wooooooof. Wf wooof wf wf wooooof wof wf wooooof

out precisely what the whale really looks like. And the only mode in
wof wooooooof woof wof wooof woooof wooof woof. Wof wof woof woof wf

which you can derive even a tolerable idea of his living contour, is
wooof wof wof woooof woof w wooooooof woof wf wof woooof wooooof, wf

by going a whaling yourself; but by so doing, you run no small risk of
wf wooof w wooooof woooooof; wof wf wf wooof, wof wof wf wooof woof wf

being eternally stove and sunk by him. Wherefore, it seems to me you had
wooof wooooooof wooof wof woof wf wof. Wooooooof, wf wooof wf wf wof wof

best not be too fastidious in your curiosity touching this Leviathan.
woof wof wf wof woooooooof wf woof wooooooof woooooof woof Wooooooof.










CHAPTER 56. Of the Less Erroneous Pictures of Whales, and the True
WOOOOOF wf. Wf wof Woof Wooooooof Woooooof wf Woooof, wof wof Woof

Pictures of Whaling Scenes.
Woooooof wf Wooooof Woooof.







In connexion with the monstrous pictures of whales, I am strongly
Wf wooooooof woof wof wooooooof woooooof wf woooof, W wf woooooof

tempted here to enter upon those still more monstrous stories of
wooooof woof wf wooof woof wooof wooof woof wooooooof wooooof wf

them which are to be found in certain books, both ancient and modern,
woof wooof wof wf wf wooof wf wooooof wooof, woof wooooof wof woooof,

especially in Pliny, Purchas, Hackluyt, Harris, Cuvier, etc. But I pass
woooooooof wf Wooof, Wooooof, Woooooof, Woooof, Woooof, wof. Wof W woof

that matter by.
woof woooof wf.




I know of only four published outlines of the great Sperm Whale;
W woof wf woof woof wooooooof woooooof wf wof wooof Wooof Wooof;

Colnett's, Huggins's, Frederick Cuvier's, and Beale's. In the previous
Wooooof'w, Wooooof'w, Wooooooof Woooof'w, wof Wooof'w. Wf wof woooooof

chapter Colnett and Cuvier have been referred to. Huggins's is far
wooooof Wooooof wof Woooof woof woof woooooof wf. Wooooof'w wf wof

better than theirs; but, by great odds, Beale's is the best. All Beale's
woooof woof woooof; wof, wf wooof woof, Wooof'w wf wof woof. Wof Wooof'w

drawings of this whale are good, excepting the middle figure in the
woooooof wf woof wooof wof woof, wooooooof wof woooof woooof wf wof

picture of three whales in various attitudes, capping his second
wooooof wf wooof woooof wf wooooof wooooooof, wooooof wof woooof

chapter. His frontispiece, boats attacking Sperm Whales, though no
wooooof. Wof woooooooooof, wooof wooooooof Wooof Woooof, woooof wf

doubt calculated to excite the civil scepticism of some parlor men, is
wooof woooooooof wf woooof wof wooof woooooooof wf woof woooof wof, wf

admirably correct and life-like in its general effect. Some of the Sperm
wooooooof wooooof wof woof-woof wf wof wooooof woooof. Woof wf wof Wooof

Whale drawings in J. Ross Browne are pretty correct in contour; but they
Wooof woooooof wf W. Woof Woooof wof woooof wooooof wf wooooof; wof woof

are wretchedly engraved. That is not his fault though.
wof woooooooof woooooof. Woof wf wof wof wooof woooof.




Of the Right Whale, the best outline pictures are in Scoresby; but they
Wf wof Wooof Wooof, wof woof wooooof woooooof wof wf Woooooof; wof woof

are drawn on too small a scale to convey a desirable impression. He has
wof wooof wf wof wooof w wooof wf woooof w wooooooof woooooooof. Wf wof

but one picture of whaling scenes, and this is a sad deficiency, because
wof wof wooooof wf wooooof woooof, wof woof wf w wof woooooooof, wooooof

it is by such pictures only, when at all well done, that you can derive
wf wf wf woof woooooof woof, woof wf wof woof woof, woof wof wof woooof

anything like a truthful idea of the living whale as seen by his living
woooooof woof w woooooof woof wf wof woooof wooof wf woof wf wof woooof

hunters.
wooooof.




But, taken for all in all, by far the finest, though in some details
Wof, wooof wof wof wf wof, wf wof wof woooof, woooof wf woof wooooof

not the most correct, presentations of whales and whaling scenes to
wof wof woof wooooof, wooooooooooof wf woooof wof wooooof woooof wf

be anywhere found, are two large French engravings, well executed,
wf woooooof wooof, wof wof wooof Woooof woooooooof, woof woooooof,

and taken from paintings by one Garnery. Respectively, they represent
wof wooof woof wooooooof wf wof Wooooof. Woooooooooof, woof wooooooof

attacks on the Sperm and Right Whale. In the first engraving a noble
wooooof wf wof Wooof wof Wooof Wooof. Wf wof wooof wooooooof w wooof

Sperm Whale is depicted in full majesty of might, just risen beneath
Wooof Wooof wf woooooof wf woof wooooof wf wooof, woof wooof wooooof

the boat from the profundities of the ocean, and bearing high in the air
wof woof woof wof woooooooooof wf wof wooof, wof wooooof woof wf wof wof

upon his back the terrific wreck of the stoven planks. The prow of
woof wof woof wof woooooof wooof wf wof woooof woooof. Wof woof wf

the boat is partially unbroken, and is drawn just balancing upon
wof woof wf wooooooof woooooof, wof wf wooof woof wooooooof woof

the monster's spine; and standing in that prow, for that one single
wof wooooof'w wooof; wof woooooof wf woof woof, wof woof wof woooof

incomputable flash of time, you behold an oarsman, half shrouded by the
woooooooooof wooof wf woof, wof woooof wf wooooof, woof woooooof wf wof

incensed boiling spout of the whale, and in the act of leaping, as if
woooooof wooooof wooof wf wof wooof, wof wf wof wof wf wooooof, wf wf

from a precipice. The action of the whole thing is wonderfully good and
woof w wooooooof. Wof woooof wf wof wooof wooof wf wooooooooof woof wof

true. The half-emptied line-tub floats on the whitened sea; the wooden
woof. Wof woof-wooooof woof-wof woooof wf wof woooooof wof; wof woooof

poles of the spilled harpoons obliquely bob in it; the heads of the
wooof wf wof wooooof woooooof wooooooof wof wf wf; wof wooof wf wof

swimming crew are scattered about the whale in contrasting expressions
woooooof woof wof wooooooof wooof wof wooof wf wooooooooof wooooooooof

of affright; while in the black stormy distance the ship is bearing down
wf woooooof; wooof wf wof wooof woooof woooooof wof woof wf wooooof woof

upon the scene. Serious fault might be found with the anatomical details
woof wof wooof. Wooooof wooof wooof wf wooof woof wof woooooooof wooooof

of this whale, but let that pass; since, for the life of me, I could not
wf woof wooof, wof wof woof woof; wooof, wof wof woof wf wf, W wooof wof

draw so good a one.
woof wf woof w wof.




In the second engraving, the boat is in the act of drawing alongside
Wf wof woooof wooooooof, wof woof wf wf wof wof wf wooooof wooooooof

the barnacled flank of a large running Right Whale, that rolls his black
wof wooooooof wooof wf w wooof wooooof Wooof Wooof, woof wooof wof wooof

weedy bulk in the sea like some mossy rock-slide from the Patagonian
wooof woof wf wof wof woof woof wooof woof-wooof woof wof Woooooooof

cliffs. His jets are erect, full, and black like soot; so that from so
woooof. Wof woof wof wooof, woof, wof wooof woof woof; wf woof woof wf

abounding a smoke in the chimney, you would think there must be a brave
wooooooof w wooof wf wof wooooof, wof wooof wooof wooof woof wf w wooof

supper cooking in the great bowels below. Sea fowls are pecking at the
woooof wooooof wf wof wooof woooof wooof. Wof wooof wof wooooof wf wof

small crabs, shell-fish, and other sea candies and maccaroni, which the
wooof wooof, wooof-woof, wof wooof wof wooooof wof wooooooof, wooof wof

Right Whale sometimes carries on his pestilent back. And all the while
Wooof Wooof wooooooof wooooof wf wof wooooooof woof. Wof wof wof wooof

the thick-lipped leviathan is rushing through the deep, leaving tons of
wof wooof-woooof wooooooof wf wooooof wooooof wof woof, wooooof woof wf

tumultuous white curds in his wake, and causing the slight boat to rock
woooooooof wooof wooof wf wof woof, wof wooooof wof woooof woof wf woof

in the swells like a skiff caught nigh the paddle-wheels of an ocean
wf wof woooof woof w wooof woooof woof wof woooof-woooof wf wf wooof

steamer. Thus, the foreground is all raging commotion; but behind, in
wooooof. Woof, wof woooooooof wf wof woooof wooooooof; wof woooof, wf

admirable artistic contrast, is the glassy level of a sea becalmed, the
wooooooof woooooof woooooof, wf wof woooof wooof wf w wof woooooof, wof

drooping unstarched sails of the powerless ship, and the inert mass of
woooooof woooooooof wooof wf wof wooooooof woof, wof wof wooof woof wf

a dead whale, a conquered fortress, with the flag of capture lazily
w woof wooof, w wooooooof woooooof, woof wof woof wf wooooof woooof

hanging from the whale-pole inserted into his spout-hole.
wooooof woof wof wooof-woof woooooof woof wof wooof-woof.




Who Garnery the painter is, or was, I know not. But my life for it he
Wof Wooooof wof wooooof wf, wf wof, W woof wof. Wof wf woof wof wf wf

was either practically conversant with his subject, or else marvellously
wof woooof wooooooooof woooooooof woof wof wooooof, wf woof woooooooooof

tutored by some experienced whaleman. The French are the lads for
wooooof wf woof wooooooooof woooooof. Wof Woooof wof wof woof wof

painting action. Go and gaze upon all the paintings of Europe, and
woooooof woooof. Wf wof woof woof wof wof wooooooof wf Woooof, wof

where will you find such a gallery of living and breathing commotion
wooof woof wof woof woof w wooooof wf woooof wof wooooooof wooooooof

on canvas, as in that triumphal hall at Versailles; where the beholder
wf woooof, wf wf woof wooooooof woof wf Woooooooof; wooof wof woooooof

fights his way, pell-mell, through the consecutive great battles of
woooof wof wof, woof-woof, wooooof wof wooooooooof wooof wooooof wf

France; where every sword seems a flash of the Northern Lights, and the
Woooof; wooof wooof wooof wooof w wooof wf wof Woooooof Woooof, wof wof

successive armed kings and Emperors dash by, like a charge of crowned
woooooooof wooof wooof wof Woooooof woof wf, woof w woooof wf wooooof

centaurs? Not wholly unworthy of a place in that gallery, are these sea
woooooof? Wof woooof woooooof wf w wooof wf woof wooooof, wof wooof wof

battle-pieces of Garnery.
woooof-woooof wf Wooooof.




The natural aptitude of the French for seizing the picturesqueness of
Wof wooooof woooooof wf wof Woooof wof wooooof wof wooooooooooooof wf

things seems to be peculiarly evinced in what paintings and engravings
woooof wooof wf wf woooooooof wooooof wf woof wooooooof wof woooooooof

they have of their whaling scenes. With not one tenth of England's
woof woof wf wooof wooooof woooof. Woof wof wof wooof wf Wooooof'w

experience in the fishery, and not the thousandth part of that of the
woooooooof wf wof wooooof, wof wof wof woooooooof woof wf woof wf wof

Americans, they have nevertheless furnished both nations with the only
Wooooooof, woof woof woooooooooof wooooooof woof wooooof woof wof woof

finished sketches at all capable of conveying the real spirit of
woooooof woooooof wf wof wooooof wf wooooooof wof woof woooof wf

the whale hunt. For the most part, the English and American whale
wof wooof woof. Wof wof woof woof, wof Wooooof wof Woooooof wooof

draughtsmen seem entirely content with presenting the mechanical outline
wooooooooof woof woooooof wooooof woof woooooooof wof woooooooof wooooof

of things, such as the vacant profile of the whale; which, so far as
wf woooof, woof wf wof woooof wooooof wf wof wooof; wooof, wf wof wf

picturesqueness of effect is concerned, is about tantamount to sketching
wooooooooooooof wf woooof wf wooooooof, wf wooof woooooooof wf wooooooof

the profile of a pyramid. Even Scoresby, the justly renowned Right
wof wooooof wf w wooooof. Woof Woooooof, wof woooof woooooof Wooof

whaleman, after giving us a stiff full length of the Greenland whale,
woooooof, wooof woooof wf w wooof woof woooof wf wof Wooooooof wooof,

and three or four delicate miniatures of narwhales and porpoises, treats
wof wooof wf woof woooooof woooooooof wf wooooooof wof wooooooof, woooof

us to a series of classical engravings of boat hooks, chopping knives,
wf wf w woooof wf wooooooof woooooooof wf woof wooof, woooooof woooof,

and grapnels; and with the microscopic diligence of a Leuwenhoeck
wof woooooof; wof woof wof wooooooooof wooooooof wf w Wooooooooof

submits to the inspection of a shivering world ninety-six fac-similes of
wooooof wf wof woooooooof wf w wooooooof wooof woooof-wof wof-wooooof wf

magnified Arctic snow crystals. I mean no disparagement to the excellent
wooooooof Woooof woof woooooof. W woof wf wooooooooooof wf wof wooooooof

voyager (I honour him for a veteran), but in so important a matter it
wooooof (W woooof wof wof w wooooof), wof wf wf wooooooof w woooof wf

was certainly an oversight not to have procured for every crystal a
wof wooooooof wf wooooooof wof wf woof woooooof wof wooof wooooof w

sworn affidavit taken before a Greenland Justice of the Peace.
wooof wooooooof wooof woooof w Wooooooof Wooooof wf wof Wooof.




In addition to those fine engravings from Garnery, there are two other
Wf woooooof wf wooof woof woooooooof woof Wooooof, wooof wof wof wooof

French engravings worthy of note, by some one who subscribes himself
Woooof woooooooof woooof wf woof, wf woof wof wof woooooooof wooooof

"H. Durand." One of them, though not precisely adapted to our present
"W. Woooof." Wof wf woof, woooof wof wooooooof wooooof wf wof wooooof

purpose, nevertheless deserves mention on other accounts. It is a quiet
wooooof, woooooooooof woooooof wooooof wf wooof woooooof. Wf wf w wooof

noon-scene among the isles of the Pacific; a French whaler anchored,
woof-wooof wooof wof wooof wf wof Wooooof; w Woooof woooof woooooof,

inshore, in a calm, and lazily taking water on board; the loosened sails
wooooof, wf w woof, wof woooof woooof wooof wf wooof; wof woooooof wooof

of the ship, and the long leaves of the palms in the background, both
wf wof woof, wof wof woof woooof wf wof wooof wf wof woooooooof, woof

drooping together in the breezeless air. The effect is very fine, when
woooooof woooooof wf wof woooooooof wof. Wof woooof wf woof woof, woof

considered with reference to its presenting the hardy fishermen under
woooooooof woof wooooooof wf wof woooooooof wof wooof wooooooof wooof

one of their few aspects of oriental repose. The other engraving is
wof wf wooof wof wooooof wf woooooof woooof. Wof wooof wooooooof wf

quite a different affair: the ship hove-to upon the open sea, and in the
wooof w wooooooof woooof: wof woof woof-wf woof wof woof wof, wof wf wof

very heart of the Leviathanic life, with a Right Whale alongside; the
woof wooof wf wof Wooooooooof woof, woof w Wooof Wooof wooooooof; wof

vessel (in the act of cutting-in) hove over to the monster as if to a
woooof (wf wof wof wf wooooof-wf) woof woof wf wof wooooof wf wf wf w

quay; and a boat, hurriedly pushing off from this scene of activity, is
woof; wof w woof, wooooooof wooooof wof woof woof wooof wf woooooof, wf

about giving chase to whales in the distance. The harpoons and lances
wooof woooof wooof wf woooof wf wof woooooof. Wof woooooof wof woooof

lie levelled for use; three oarsmen are just setting the mast in its
wof woooooof wof wof; wooof wooooof wof woof wooooof wof woof wf wof

hole; while from a sudden roll of the sea, the little craft stands
woof; wooof woof w woooof woof wf wof wof, wof woooof wooof woooof

half-erect out of the water, like a rearing horse. From the ship, the
woof-wooof wof wf wof wooof, woof w wooooof wooof. Woof wof woof, wof

smoke of the torments of the boiling whale is going up like the smoke
wooof wf wof woooooof wf wof wooooof wooof wf wooof wf woof wof wooof

over a village of smithies; and to windward, a black cloud, rising up
woof w wooooof wf woooooof; wof wf woooooof, w wooof wooof, woooof wf

with earnest of squalls and rains, seems to quicken the activity of the
woof wooooof wf wooooof wof wooof, wooof wf wooooof wof woooooof wf wof

excited seamen.
wooooof woooof.










CHAPTER 57. Of Whales in Paint; in Teeth; in Wood; in Sheet-Iron; in
WOOOOOF wf. Wf Woooof wf Wooof; wf Wooof; wf Woof; wf Wooof-Woof; wf

Stone; in Mountains; in Stars.
Wooof; wf Wooooooof; wf Wooof.







On Tower-hill, as you go down to the London docks, you may have seen a
Wf Wooof-woof, wf wof wf woof wf wof Woooof wooof, wof wof woof woof w

crippled beggar (or KEDGER, as the sailors say) holding a painted board
woooooof woooof (wf WOOOOF, wf wof wooooof wof) wooooof w wooooof wooof

before him, representing the tragic scene in which he lost his leg.
woooof wof, woooooooooof wof woooof wooof wf wooof wf woof wof wof.

There are three whales and three boats; and one of the boats (presumed
Wooof wof wooof woooof wof wooof wooof; wof wof wf wof wooof (woooooof

to contain the missing leg in all its original integrity) is being
wf wooooof wof wooooof wof wf wof wof woooooof wooooooof) wf wooof

crunched by the jaws of the foremost whale. Any time these ten years,
woooooof wf wof woof wf wof woooooof wooof. Wof woof wooof wof wooof,

they tell me, has that man held up that picture, and exhibited that
woof woof wf, wof woof wof woof wf woof wooooof, wof wooooooof woof

stump to an incredulous world. But the time of his justification has
wooof wf wf wooooooooof wooof. Wof wof woof wf wof wooooooooooof wof

now come. His three whales are as good whales as were ever published in
wof woof. Wof wooof woooof wof wf woof woooof wf woof woof wooooooof wf

Wapping, at any rate; and his stump as unquestionable a stump as any you
Wooooof, wf wof woof; wof wof wooof wf woooooooooooof w wooof wf wof wof

will find in the western clearings. But, though for ever mounted on
woof woof wf wof wooooof wooooooof. Wof, woooof wof woof wooooof wf

that stump, never a stump-speech does the poor whaleman make; but, with
woof wooof, wooof w wooof-woooof woof wof woof woooooof woof; wof, woof

downcast eyes, stands ruefully contemplating his own amputation.
woooooof woof, woooof woooooof wooooooooooof wof wof woooooooof.




Throughout the Pacific, and also in Nantucket, and New Bedford, and
Woooooooof wof Wooooof, wof woof wf Wooooooof, wof Wof Wooooof, wof

Sag Harbor, you will come across lively sketches of whales and
Wof Woooof, wof woof woof woooof woooof woooooof wf woooof wof

whaling-scenes, graven by the fishermen themselves on Sperm Whale-teeth,
wooooof-woooof, woooof wf wof wooooooof woooooooof wf Wooof Wooof-wooof,

or ladies' busks wrought out of the Right Whale-bone, and other
wf woooof' wooof wooooof wof wf wof Wooof Wooof-woof, wof wooof

like skrimshander articles, as the whalemen call the numerous little
woof woooooooooof woooooof, wf wof woooooof woof wof woooooof woooof

ingenious contrivances they elaborately carve out of the rough material,
wooooooof woooooooooof woof wooooooooof wooof wof wf wof wooof woooooof,

in their hours of ocean leisure. Some of them have little boxes
wf wooof wooof wf wooof wooooof. Woof wf woof woof woooof wooof

of dentistical-looking implements, specially intended for the
wf wooooooooof-wooooof woooooooof, wooooooof woooooof wof wof

skrimshandering business. But, in general, they toil with their
wooooooooooooof woooooof. Wof, wf wooooof, woof woof woof wooof

jack-knives alone; and, with that almost omnipotent tool of the sailor,
woof-woooof wooof; wof, woof woof woooof woooooooof woof wf wof woooof,

they will turn you out anything you please, in the way of a mariner's
woof woof woof wof wof woooooof wof woooof, wf wof wof wf w wooooof'w

fancy.
wooof.




Long exile from Christendom and civilization inevitably restores a man
Woof wooof woof Wooooooooof wof woooooooooof woooooooof woooooof w wof

to that condition in which God placed him, i.e. what is called savagery.
wf woof wooooooof wf wooof Wof woooof wof, w.w. woof wf woooof woooooof.

Your true whale-hunter is as much a savage as an Iroquois. I myself am a
Woof woof wooof-woooof wf wf woof w woooof wf wf Woooooof. W woooof wf w

savage, owning no allegiance but to the King of the Cannibals; and ready
woooof, woooof wf woooooooof wof wf wof Woof wf wof Wooooooof; wof wooof

at any moment to rebel against him.
wf wof woooof wf wooof wooooof wof.




Now, one of the peculiar characteristics of the savage in his domestic
Wof, wof wf wof woooooof wooooooooooooof wf wof woooof wf wof woooooof

hours, is his wonderful patience of industry. An ancient Hawaiian
wooof, wf wof wooooooof woooooof wf woooooof. Wf wooooof Woooooof

war-club or spear-paddle, in its full multiplicity and elaboration of
wof-woof wf wooof-woooof, wf wof woof woooooooooof wof wooooooooof wf

carving, is as great a trophy of human perseverance as a Latin lexicon.
wooooof, wf wf wooof w woooof wf wooof woooooooooof wf w Wooof wooooof.

For, with but a bit of broken sea-shell or a shark's tooth, that
Wof, woof wof w wof wf woooof wof-wooof wf w wooof'w wooof, woof

miraculous intricacy of wooden net-work has been achieved; and it has
woooooooof wooooooof wf woooof wof-woof wof woof woooooof; wof wf wof

cost steady years of steady application.
woof woooof wooof wf woooof wooooooooof.




As with the Hawaiian savage, so with the white sailor-savage. With the
Wf woof wof Woooooof woooof, wf woof wof wooof woooof-woooof. Woof wof

same marvellous patience, and with the same single shark's tooth, of
woof woooooooof woooooof, wof woof wof woof woooof wooof'w wooof, wf

his one poor jack-knife, he will carve you a bit of bone sculpture, not
wof wof woof woof-wooof, wf woof wooof wof w wof wf woof wooooooof, wof

quite as workmanlike, but as close packed in its maziness of design,
wooof wf wooooooooof, wof wf wooof woooof wf wof woooooof wf woooof,

as the Greek savage, Achilles's shield; and full of barbaric spirit
wf wof Wooof woooof, Woooooof'w woooof; wof woof wf woooooof woooof

and suggestiveness, as the prints of that fine old Dutch savage, Albert
wof woooooooooooof, wf wof woooof wf woof woof wof Wooof woooof, Woooof

Durer.
Wooof.




Wooden whales, or whales cut in profile out of the small dark slabs of
Woooof woooof, wf woooof wof wf wooooof wof wf wof wooof woof wooof wf

the noble South Sea war-wood, are frequently met with in the forecastles
wof wooof Wooof Wof wof-woof, wof woooooooof wof woof wf wof wooooooooof

of American whalers. Some of them are done with much accuracy.
wf Woooooof wooooof. Woof wf woof wof woof woof woof woooooof.




At some old gable-roofed country houses you will see brass whales hung
Wf woof wof wooof-woooof wooooof woooof wof woof wof wooof woooof woof

by the tail for knockers to the road-side door. When the porter is
wf wof woof wof woooooof wf wof woof-woof woof. Woof wof woooof wf

sleepy, the anvil-headed whale would be best. But these knocking
woooof, wof wooof-woooof wooof wooof wf woof. Wof wooof woooooof

whales are seldom remarkable as faithful essays. On the spires of some
woooof wof woooof woooooooof wf woooooof woooof. Wf wof woooof wf woof

old-fashioned churches you will see sheet-iron whales placed there for
wof-wooooooof woooooof wof woof wof wooof-woof woooof woooof wooof wof

weather-cocks; but they are so elevated, and besides that are to all
wooooof-wooof; wof woof wof wf woooooof, wof wooooof woof wof wf wof

intents and purposes so labelled with "HANDS OFF!" you cannot examine
wooooof wof woooooof wf woooooof woof "WOOOF WOF!" wof woooof wooooof

them closely enough to decide upon their merit.
woof wooooof woooof wf woooof woof wooof wooof.




In bony, ribby regions of the earth, where at the base of high broken
Wf woof, wooof wooooof wf wof wooof, wooof wf wof woof wf woof woooof

cliffs masses of rock lie strewn in fantastic groupings upon the
woooof woooof wf woof wof woooof wf wooooooof wooooooof woof wof

plain, you will often discover images as of the petrified forms of the
wooof, wof woof wooof woooooof woooof wf wf wof wooooooof wooof wf wof

Leviathan partly merged in grass, which of a windy day breaks against
Wooooooof woooof woooof wf wooof, wooof wf w wooof wof woooof wooooof

them in a surf of green surges.
woof wf w woof wf wooof woooof.




Then, again, in mountainous countries where the traveller is continually
Woof, wooof, wf wooooooooof wooooooof wooof wof wooooooof wf wooooooooof

girdled by amphitheatrical heights; here and there from some lucky
wooooof wf wooooooooooooof wooooof; woof wof wooof woof woof wooof

point of view you will catch passing glimpses of the profiles of
wooof wf woof wof woof wooof wooooof woooooof wf wof woooooof wf

whales defined along the undulating ridges. But you must be a thorough
woooof wooooof wooof wof woooooooof woooof. Wof wof woof wf w woooooof

whaleman, to see these sights; and not only that, but if you wish
woooooof, wf wof wooof woooof; wof wof woof woof, wof wf wof woof

to return to such a sight again, you must be sure and take the exact
wf woooof wf woof w wooof wooof, wof woof wf woof wof woof wof wooof

intersecting latitude and longitude of your first stand-point, else
woooooooooof woooooof wof wooooooof wf woof wooof wooof-wooof, woof

so chance-like are such observations of the hills, that your precise,
wf woooof-woof wof woof woooooooooof wf wof wooof, woof woof wooooof,

previous stand-point would require a laborious re-discovery; like the
woooooof wooof-wooof wooof wooooof w wooooooof wf-wooooooof; woof wof

Soloma Islands, which still remain incognita, though once high-ruffed
Woooof Wooooof, wooof wooof woooof wooooooof, woooof woof woof-woooof

Mendanna trod them and old Figuera chronicled them.
Woooooof woof woof wof wof Wooooof woooooooof woof.




Nor when expandingly lifted by your subject, can you fail to trace out
Wof woof wooooooooof woooof wf woof wooooof, wof wof woof wf wooof wof

great whales in the starry heavens, and boats in pursuit of them; as
wooof woooof wf wof woooof wooooof, wof wooof wf wooooof wf woof; wf

when long filled with thoughts of war the Eastern nations saw armies
woof woof woooof woof woooooof wf wof wof Wooooof wooooof wof woooof

locked in battle among the clouds. Thus at the North have I chased
woooof wf woooof wooof wof woooof. Woof wf wof Wooof woof W woooof

Leviathan round and round the Pole with the revolutions of the bright
Wooooooof wooof wof wooof wof Woof woof wof wooooooooof wf wof woooof

points that first defined him to me. And beneath the effulgent Antarctic
woooof woof wooof wooooof wof wf wf. Wof wooooof wof wooooooof Wooooooof

skies I have boarded the Argo-Navis, and joined the chase against the
wooof W woof wooooof wof Woof-Wooof, wof woooof wof wooof wooooof wof

starry Cetus far beyond the utmost stretch of Hydrus and the Flying
woooof Wooof wof woooof wof woooof wooooof wf Woooof wof wof Woooof

Fish.
Woof.




With a frigate's anchors for my bridle-bitts and fasces of harpoons for
Woof w wooooof'w wooooof wof wf woooof-wooof wof woooof wf woooooof wof

spurs, would I could mount that whale and leap the topmost skies, to
wooof, wooof W wooof wooof woof wooof wof woof wof wooooof wooof, wf

see whether the fabled heavens with all their countless tents really lie
wof wooooof wof woooof wooooof woof wof wooof wooooooof wooof woooof wof

encamped beyond my mortal sight!
woooooof woooof wf woooof wooof!










CHAPTER 58. Brit.
WOOOOOF wf. Woof.







Steering north-eastward from the Crozetts, we fell in with vast meadows
Woooooof wooof-woooooof woof wof Woooooof, wf woof wf woof woof wooooof

of brit, the minute, yellow substance, upon which the Right Whale
wf woof, wof woooof, woooof wooooooof, woof wooof wof Wooof Wooof

largely feeds. For leagues and leagues it undulated round us, so that we
wooooof wooof. Wof wooooof wof wooooof wf wooooooof wooof wf, wf woof wf

seemed to be sailing through boundless fields of ripe and golden wheat.
woooof wf wf wooooof wooooof wooooooof woooof wf woof wof woooof wooof.




On the second day, numbers of Right Whales were seen, who, secure from
Wf wof woooof wof, wooooof wf Wooof Woooof woof woof, wof, woooof woof

the attack of a Sperm Whaler like the Pequod, with open jaws sluggishly
wof woooof wf w Wooof Woooof woof wof Woooof, woof woof woof woooooooof

swam through the brit, which, adhering to the fringing fibres of that
woof wooooof wof woof, wooof, woooooof wf wof woooooof woooof wf woof

wondrous Venetian blind in their mouths, was in that manner separated
woooooof Woooooof wooof wf wooof woooof, wof wf woof woooof wooooooof

from the water that escaped at the lip.
woof wof wooof woof wooooof wf wof wof.




As morning mowers, who side by side slowly and seethingly advance
Wf wooooof woooof, wof woof wf woof woooof wof woooooooof wooooof

their scythes through the long wet grass of marshy meads; even so these
wooof wooooof wooooof wof woof wof wooof wf woooof wooof; woof wf wooof

monsters swam, making a strange, grassy, cutting sound; and leaving
woooooof woof, woooof w wooooof, woooof, wooooof wooof; wof wooooof

behind them endless swaths of blue upon the yellow sea.*
woooof woof wooooof woooof wf woof woof wof woooof wof.*







*That part of the sea known among whalemen as the "Brazil Banks" does
*Woof woof wf wof wof wooof wooof woooooof wf wof "Woooof Wooof" woof

not bear that name as the Banks of Newfoundland do, because of there
wof woof woof woof wf wof Wooof wf Woooooooooof wf, wooooof wf wooof

being shallows and soundings there, but because of this remarkable
wooof woooooof wof wooooooof wooof, wof wooooof wf woof woooooooof

meadow-like appearance, caused by the vast drifts of brit continually
woooof-woof woooooooof, woooof wf wof woof woooof wf woof wooooooooof

floating in those latitudes, where the Right Whale is often chased.
woooooof wf wooof wooooooof, wooof wof Wooof Wooof wf wooof woooof.







But it was only the sound they made as they parted the brit which at all
Wof wf wof woof wof wooof woof woof wf woof woooof wof woof wooof wf wof

reminded one of mowers. Seen from the mast-heads, especially when they
woooooof wof wf woooof. Woof woof wof woof-wooof, woooooooof woof woof

paused and were stationary for a while, their vast black forms looked
woooof wof woof woooooooof wof w wooof, wooof woof wooof wooof woooof

more like lifeless masses of rock than anything else. And as in the
woof woof woooooof woooof wf woof woof woooooof woof. Wof wf wf wof

great hunting countries of India, the stranger at a distance will
wooof wooooof wooooooof wf Wooof, wof woooooof wf w woooooof woof

sometimes pass on the plains recumbent elephants without knowing them
wooooooof woof wf wof woooof wooooooof wooooooof wooooof wooooof woof

to be such, taking them for bare, blackened elevations of the soil; even
wf wf woof, woooof woof wof woof, wooooooof woooooooof wf wof woof; woof

so, often, with him, who for the first time beholds this species of the
wf, wooof, woof wof, wof wof wof wooof woof wooooof woof wooooof wf wof

leviathans of the sea. And even when recognised at last, their immense
woooooooof wf wof wof. Wof woof woof woooooooof wf woof, wooof wooooof

magnitude renders it very hard really to believe that such bulky masses
wooooooof wooooof wf woof woof woooof wf wooooof woof woof wooof woooof

of overgrowth can possibly be instinct, in all parts, with the same sort
wf woooooooof wof woooooof wf woooooof, wf wof wooof, woof wof woof woof

of life that lives in a dog or a horse.
wf woof woof wooof wf w wof wf w wooof.




Indeed, in other respects, you can hardly regard any creatures of the
Woooof, wf wooof woooooof, wof wof woooof woooof wof wooooooof wf wof

deep with the same feelings that you do those of the shore. For though
woof woof wof woof woooooof woof wof wf wooof wf wof wooof. Wof woooof

some old naturalists have maintained that all creatures of the land are
woof wof wooooooooof woof woooooooof woof wof wooooooof wf wof woof wof

of their kind in the sea; and though taking a broad general view of
wf wooof woof wf wof wof; wof woooof woooof w wooof wooooof woof wf

the thing, this may very well be; yet coming to specialties, where, for
wof wooof, woof wof woof woof wf; wof woooof wf wooooooooof, wooof, wof

example, does the ocean furnish any fish that in disposition answers to
wooooof, woof wof wooof wooooof wof woof woof wf wooooooooof wooooof wf

the sagacious kindness of the dog? The accursed shark alone can in any
wof wooooooof woooooof wf wof wof? Wof woooooof wooof wooof wof wf wof

generic respect be said to bear comparative analogy to him.
wooooof wooooof wf woof wf woof wooooooooof wooooof wf wof.




But though, to landsmen in general, the native inhabitants of the
Wof woooof, wf woooooof wf wooooof, wof woooof wooooooooof wf wof

seas have ever been regarded with emotions unspeakably unsocial and
woof woof woof woof woooooof woof woooooof wooooooooof woooooof wof

repelling; though we know the sea to be an everlasting terra incognita,
wooooooof; woooof wf woof wof wof wf wf wf wooooooooof wooof wooooooof,

so that Columbus sailed over numberless unknown worlds to discover his
wf woof Woooooof woooof woof woooooooof wooooof woooof wf woooooof wof

one superficial western one; though, by vast odds, the most terrific
wof wooooooooof wooooof wof; woooof, wf woof woof, wof woof woooooof

of all mortal disasters have immemorially and indiscriminately befallen
wf wof woooof wooooooof woof woooooooooof wof woooooooooooooof woooooof

tens and hundreds of thousands of those who have gone upon the waters;
woof wof woooooof wf wooooooof wf wooof wof woof woof woof wof woooof;

though but a moment's consideration will teach, that however baby man
woooof wof w woooof'w wooooooooooof woof wooof, woof wooooof woof wof

may brag of his science and skill, and however much, in a flattering
wof woof wf wof wooooof wof wooof, wof wooooof woof, wf w woooooooof

future, that science and skill may augment; yet for ever and for ever,
woooof, woof wooooof wof wooof wof wooooof; wof wof woof wof wof woof,

to the crack of doom, the sea will insult and murder him, and pulverize
wf wof wooof wf woof, wof wof woof woooof wof woooof wof, wof wooooooof

the stateliest, stiffest frigate he can make; nevertheless, by the
wof woooooooof, woooooof wooooof wf wof woof; woooooooooof, wf wof

continual repetition of these very impressions, man has lost that sense
wooooooof woooooooof wf wooof woof wooooooooof, wof wof woof woof wooof

of the full awfulness of the sea which aboriginally belongs to it.
wf wof woof wooooooof wf wof wof wooof woooooooooof wooooof wf wf.




The first boat we read of, floated on an ocean, that with Portuguese
Wof wooof woof wf woof wf, wooooof wf wf wooof, woof woof Woooooooof

vengeance had whelmed a whole world without leaving so much as a widow.
wooooooof wof wooooof w wooof wooof wooooof wooooof wf woof wf w wooof.

That same ocean rolls now; that same ocean destroyed the wrecked ships
Woof woof wooof wooof wof; woof woof wooof wooooooof wof wooooof wooof

of last year. Yea, foolish mortals, Noah's flood is not yet subsided;
wf woof woof. Wof, wooooof wooooof, Woof'w wooof wf wof wof woooooof;

two thirds of the fair world it yet covers.
wof woooof wf wof woof wooof wf wof woooof.




Wherein differ the sea and the land, that a miracle upon one is not a
Wooooof woooof wof wof wof wof woof, woof w wooooof woof wof wf wof w

miracle upon the other? Preternatural terrors rested upon the Hebrews,
wooooof woof wof wooof? Wooooooooooof wooooof woooof woof wof Wooooof,

when under the feet of Korah and his company the live ground opened
woof wooof wof woof wf Wooof wof wof wooooof wof woof woooof woooof

and swallowed them up for ever; yet not a modern sun ever sets, but in
wof wooooooof woof wf wof woof; wof wof w woooof wof woof woof, wof wf

precisely the same manner the live sea swallows up ships and crews.
wooooooof wof woof woooof wof woof wof woooooof wf wooof wof wooof.




But not only is the sea such a foe to man who is an alien to it, but it
Wof wof woof wf wof wof woof w wof wf wof wof wf wf wooof wf wf, wof wf

is also a fiend to its own off-spring; worse than the Persian host who
wf woof w wooof wf wof wof wof-woooof; wooof woof wof Wooooof woof wof

murdered his own guests; sparing not the creatures which itself hath
woooooof wof wof woooof; wooooof wof wof wooooooof wooof woooof woof

spawned. Like a savage tigress that tossing in the jungle overlays her
wooooof. Woof w woooof wooooof woof wooooof wf wof woooof woooooof wof

own cubs, so the sea dashes even the mightiest whales against the rocks,
wof woof, wf wof wof woooof woof wof wooooooof woooof wooooof wof wooof,

and leaves them there side by side with the split wrecks of ships. No
wof woooof woof wooof woof wf woof woof wof wooof woooof wf wooof. Wf

mercy, no power but its own controls it. Panting and snorting like a mad
wooof, wf wooof wof wof wof woooooof wf. Wooooof wof woooooof woof w wof

battle steed that has lost its rider, the masterless ocean overruns the
woooof wooof woof wof woof wof wooof, wof woooooooof wooof woooooof wof

globe.
wooof.




Consider the subtleness of the sea; how its most dreaded creatures glide
Woooooof wof woooooooof wf wof wof; wof wof woof wooooof wooooooof wooof

under water, unapparent for the most part, and treacherously hidden
wooof wooof, woooooooof wof wof woof woof, wof wooooooooooof woooof

beneath the loveliest tints of azure. Consider also the devilish
wooooof wof wooooooof wooof wf wooof. Woooooof woof wof woooooof

brilliance and beauty of many of its most remorseless tribes, as the
woooooooof wof woooof wf woof wf wof woof wooooooooof woooof, wf wof

dainty embellished shape of many species of sharks. Consider, once more,
woooof wooooooooof wooof wf woof wooooof wf woooof. Woooooof, woof woof,

the universal cannibalism of the sea; all whose creatures prey upon each
wof wooooooof wooooooooof wf wof wof; wof wooof wooooooof woof woof woof

other, carrying on eternal war since the world began.
wooof, woooooof wf wooooof wof wooof wof wooof wooof.




Consider all this; and then turn to this green, gentle, and most docile
Woooooof wof woof; wof woof woof wf woof wooof, woooof, wof woof woooof

earth; consider them both, the sea and the land; and do you not find a
wooof; woooooof woof woof, wof wof wof wof woof; wof wf wof wof woof w

strange analogy to something in yourself? For as this appalling ocean
wooooof wooooof wf wooooooof wf woooooof? Wof wf woof wooooooof wooof

surrounds the verdant land, so in the soul of man there lies one insular
wooooooof wof wooooof woof, wf wf wof woof wf wof wooof woof wof wooooof

Tahiti, full of peace and joy, but encompassed by all the horrors of the
Woooof, woof wf wooof wof wof, wof wooooooooof wf wof wof wooooof wf wof

half known life. God keep thee! Push not off from that isle, thou canst
woof wooof woof. Wof woof woof! Woof wof wof woof woof woof, woof wooof

never return!
wooof woooof!







CHAPTER 59. Squid.
WOOOOOF wf. Wooof.







Slowly wading through the meadows of brit, the Pequod still held on her
Woooof woooof wooooof wof wooooof wf woof, wof Woooof wooof woof wf wof

way north-eastward towards the island of Java; a gentle air impelling
wof wooof-woooooof wooooof wof woooof wf Woof; w woooof wof wooooooof

her keel, so that in the surrounding serenity her three tall tapering
wof woof, wf woof wf wof wooooooooof woooooof wof wooof woof woooooof

masts mildly waved to that languid breeze, as three mild palms on a
wooof woooof wooof wf woof wooooof woooof, wf wooof woof wooof wf w

plain. And still, at wide intervals in the silvery night, the lonely,
wooof. Wof wooof, wf woof wooooooof wf wof wooooof wooof, wof woooof,

alluring jet would be seen.
woooooof wof wooof wf woof.




But one transparent blue morning, when a stillness almost preternatural
Wof wof wooooooooof woof wooooof, woof w wooooooof woooof wooooooooooof

spread over the sea, however unattended with any stagnant calm; when
woooof woof wof wof, wooooof woooooooof woof wof woooooof woof; woof

the long burnished sun-glade on the waters seemed a golden finger laid
wof woof wooooooof wof-wooof wf wof woooof woooof w woooof woooof woof

across them, enjoining some secrecy; when the slippered waves whispered
woooof woof, wooooooof woof wooooof; woof wof wooooooof wooof wooooooof

together as they softly ran on; in this profound hush of the visible
woooooof wf woof woooof wof wf; wf woof woooooof woof wf wof wooooof

sphere a strange spectre was seen by Daggoo from the main-mast-head.
woooof w wooooof wooooof wof woof wf Woooof woof wof woof-woof-woof.




In the distance, a great white mass lazily rose, and rising higher and
Wf wof woooooof, w wooof wooof woof woooof woof, wof woooof woooof wof

higher, and disentangling itself from the azure, at last gleamed before
woooof, wof wooooooooooof woooof woof wof wooof, wf woof wooooof woooof

our prow like a snow-slide, new slid from the hills. Thus glistening
wof woof woof w woof-wooof, wof woof woof wof wooof. Woof woooooooof

for a moment, as slowly it subsided, and sank. Then once more arose,
wof w woooof, wf woooof wf woooooof, wof woof. Woof woof woof wooof,

and silently gleamed. It seemed not a whale; and yet is this Moby Dick?
wof woooooof wooooof. Wf woooof wof w wooof; wof wof wf woof Woof Woof?

thought Daggoo. Again the phantom went down, but on re-appearing once
wooooof Woooof. Wooof wof wooooof woof woof, wof wf wf-wooooooof woof

more, with a stiletto-like cry that startled every man from his nod, the
woof, woof w woooooof-woof wof woof woooooof wooof wof woof wof wof, wof

negro yelled out--"There! there again! there she breaches! right ahead!
wooof woooof wof--"Wooof! wooof wooof! wooof wof woooooof! wooof wooof!

The White Whale, the White Whale!"
Wof Wooof Wooof, wof Wooof Wooof!"




Upon this, the seamen rushed to the yard-arms, as in swarming-time the
Woof woof, wof woooof woooof wf wof woof-woof, wf wf woooooof-woof wof

bees rush to the boughs. Bare-headed in the sultry sun, Ahab stood on
woof woof wf wof woooof. Woof-woooof wf wof woooof wof, Woof wooof wf

the bowsprit, and with one hand pushed far behind in readiness to wave
wof woooooof, wof woof wof woof woooof wof woooof wf wooooooof wf woof

his orders to the helmsman, cast his eager glance in the direction
wof woooof wf wof woooooof, woof wof wooof woooof wf wof wooooooof

indicated aloft by the outstretched motionless arm of Daggoo.
wooooooof wooof wf wof woooooooooof woooooooof wof wf Woooof.




Whether the flitting attendance of the one still and solitary jet had
Wooooof wof woooooof woooooooof wf wof wof wooof wof woooooof wof wof

gradually worked upon Ahab, so that he was now prepared to connect the
wooooooof woooof woof Woof, wf woof wf wof wof woooooof wf wooooof wof

ideas of mildness and repose with the first sight of the particular
wooof wf woooooof wof woooof woof wof wooof wooof wf wof woooooooof

whale he pursued; however this was, or whether his eagerness betrayed
wooof wf wooooof; wooooof woof wof, wf wooooof wof wooooooof woooooof

him; whichever way it might have been, no sooner did he distinctly
wof; wooooooof wof wf wooof woof woof, wf woooof wof wf woooooooof

perceive the white mass, than with a quick intensity he instantly gave
woooooof wof wooof woof, woof woof w wooof wooooooof wf wooooooof woof

orders for lowering.
woooof wof woooooof.




The four boats were soon on the water; Ahab's in advance, and all
Wof woof wooof woof woof wf wof wooof; Woof'w wf wooooof, wof wof

swiftly pulling towards their prey. Soon it went down, and while, with
wooooof wooooof wooooof wooof woof. Woof wf woof woof, wof wooof, woof

oars suspended, we were awaiting its reappearance, lo! in the same
woof wooooooof, wf woof woooooof wof woooooooooof, wf! wf wof woof

spot where it sank, once more it slowly rose. Almost forgetting for
woof wooof wf woof, woof woof wf woooof woof. Woooof woooooooof wof

the moment all thoughts of Moby Dick, we now gazed at the most wondrous
wof woooof wof woooooof wf Woof Woof, wf wof wooof wf wof woof woooooof

phenomenon which the secret seas have hitherto revealed to mankind.
woooooooof wooof wof woooof woof woof woooooof woooooof wf wooooof.

A vast pulpy mass, furlongs in length and breadth, of a glancing
W woof wooof woof, woooooof wf woooof wof wooooof, wf w woooooof

cream-colour, lay floating on the water, innumerable long arms radiating
wooof-woooof, wof woooooof wf wof wooof, wooooooooof woof woof wooooooof

from its centre, and curling and twisting like a nest of anacondas, as
woof wof woooof, wof wooooof wof woooooof woof w woof wf wooooooof, wf

if blindly to clutch at any hapless object within reach. No perceptible
wf wooooof wf woooof wf wof wooooof woooof woooof wooof. Wf wooooooooof

face or front did it have; no conceivable token of either sensation or
woof wf wooof wof wf woof; wf wooooooooof wooof wf woooof wooooooof wf

instinct; but undulated there on the billows, an unearthly, formless,
woooooof; wof wooooooof wooof wf wof wooooof, wf wooooooof, woooooof,

chance-like apparition of life.
woooof-woof woooooooof wf woof.




As with a low sucking sound it slowly disappeared again, Starbuck still
Wf woof w wof wooooof wooof wf woooof wooooooooof wooof, Woooooof wooof

gazing at the agitated waters where it had sunk, with a wild voice
woooof wf wof woooooof woooof wooof wf wof woof, woof w woof wooof

exclaimed--"Almost rather had I seen Moby Dick and fought him, than to
wooooooof--"Woooof woooof wof W woof Woof Woof wof woooof wof, woof wf

have seen thee, thou white ghost!"
woof woof woof, woof wooof wooof!"




"What was it, Sir?" said Flask.
"Woof wof wf, Wof?" woof Wooof.




"The great live squid, which, they say, few whale-ships ever beheld, and
"Wof wooof woof wooof, wooof, woof wof, wof wooof-wooof woof woooof, wof

returned to their ports to tell of it."
woooooof wf wooof wooof wf woof wf wf."




But Ahab said nothing; turning his boat, he sailed back to the vessel;
Wof Woof woof wooooof; wooooof wof woof, wf woooof woof wf wof woooof;

the rest as silently following.
wof woof wf woooooof wooooooof.




Whatever superstitions the sperm whalemen in general have connected with
Woooooof wooooooooooof wof wooof woooooof wf wooooof woof wooooooof woof

the sight of this object, certain it is, that a glimpse of it being
wof wooof wf woof woooof, wooooof wf wf, woof w wooooof wf wf wooof

so very unusual, that circumstance has gone far to invest it with
wf woof wooooof, woof woooooooooof wof woof wof wf woooof wf woof

portentousness. So rarely is it beheld, that though one and all of them
woooooooooooof. Wf woooof wf wf woooof, woof woooof wof wof wof wf woof

declare it to be the largest animated thing in the ocean, yet very few
wooooof wf wf wf wof wooooof woooooof wooof wf wof wooof, wof woof wof

of them have any but the most vague ideas concerning its true nature and
wf woof woof wof wof wof woof wooof wooof woooooooof wof woof woooof wof

form; notwithstanding, they believe it to furnish to the sperm whale
woof; wooooooooooooof, woof wooooof wf wf wooooof wf wof wooof wooof

his only food. For though other species of whales find their food above
wof woof woof. Wof woooof wooof wooooof wf woooof woof wooof woof wooof

water, and may be seen by man in the act of feeding, the spermaceti
wooof, wof wof wf woof wf wof wf wof wof wf wooooof, wof woooooooof

whale obtains his whole food in unknown zones below the surface; and
wooof wooooof wof wooof woof wf wooooof wooof wooof wof wooooof; wof

only by inference is it that any one can tell of what, precisely, that
woof wf wooooooof wf wf woof wof wof wof woof wf woof, wooooooof, woof

food consists. At times, when closely pursued, he will disgorge what
woof woooooof. Wf wooof, woof wooooof wooooof, wf woof woooooof woof

are supposed to be the detached arms of the squid; some of them thus
wof woooooof wf wf wof woooooof woof wf wof wooof; woof wf woof woof

exhibited exceeding twenty and thirty feet in length. They fancy that
wooooooof wooooooof woooof wof woooof woof wf woooof. Woof wooof woof

the monster to which these arms belonged ordinarily clings by them to
wof wooooof wf wooof wooof woof woooooof woooooooof woooof wf woof wf

the bed of the ocean; and that the sperm whale, unlike other species, is
wof wof wf wof wooof; wof woof wof wooof wooof, woooof wooof wooooof, wf

supplied with teeth in order to attack and tear it.
woooooof woof wooof wf wooof wf woooof wof woof wf.




There seems some ground to imagine that the great Kraken of Bishop
Wooof wooof woof woooof wf wooooof woof wof wooof Woooof wf Woooof

Pontoppodan may ultimately resolve itself into Squid. The manner in
Wooooooooof wof woooooooof wooooof woooof woof Wooof. Wof woooof wf

which the Bishop describes it, as alternately rising and sinking, with
wooof wof Woooof wooooooof wf, wf wooooooooof woooof wof wooooof, woof

some other particulars he narrates, in all this the two correspond.
woof wooof wooooooooof wf woooooof, wf wof woof wof wof woooooooof.

But much abatement is necessary with respect to the incredible bulk he
Wof woof wooooooof wf wooooooof woof wooooof wf wof woooooooof woof wf

assigns it.
wooooof wf.




By some naturalists who have vaguely heard rumors of the mysterious
Wf woof wooooooooof wof woof wooooof wooof woooof wf wof woooooooof

creature, here spoken of, it is included among the class of cuttle-fish,
woooooof, woof woooof wf, wf wf woooooof wooof wof wooof wf woooof-woof,

to which, indeed, in certain external respects it would seem to belong,
wf wooof, woooof, wf wooooof woooooof woooooof wf wooof woof wf woooof,

but only as the Anak of the tribe.
wof woof wf wof Woof wf wof wooof.










CHAPTER 60. The Line.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Woof.







With reference to the whaling scene shortly to be described, as well as
Woof wooooooof wf wof wooooof wooof wooooof wf wf wooooooof, wf woof wf

for the better understanding of all similar scenes elsewhere presented,
wof wof woooof wooooooooooof wf wof wooooof woooof wooooooof wooooooof,

I have here to speak of the magical, sometimes horrible whale-line.
W woof woof wf wooof wf wof wooooof, wooooooof woooooof wooof-woof.




The line originally used in the fishery was of the best hemp, slightly
Wof woof woooooooof woof wf wof wooooof wof wf wof woof woof, woooooof

vapoured with tar, not impregnated with it, as in the case of ordinary
woooooof woof wof, wof wooooooooof woof wf, wf wf wof woof wf woooooof

ropes; for while tar, as ordinarily used, makes the hemp more pliable to
wooof; wof wooof wof, wf woooooooof woof, wooof wof woof woof wooooof wf

the rope-maker, and also renders the rope itself more convenient to the
wof woof-wooof, wof woof wooooof wof woof woooof woof woooooooof wf wof

sailor for common ship use; yet, not only would the ordinary quantity
woooof wof woooof woof wof; wof, wof woof wooof wof woooooof woooooof

too much stiffen the whale-line for the close coiling to which it must
wof woof wooooof wof wooof-woof wof wof wooof wooooof wf wooof wf woof

be subjected; but as most seamen are beginning to learn, tar in general
wf wooooooof; wof wf woof woooof wof wooooooof wf wooof, wof wf wooooof

by no means adds to the rope's durability or strength, however much it
wf wf wooof woof wf wof woof'w woooooooof wf woooooof, wooooof woof wf

may give it compactness and gloss.
wof woof wf wooooooooof wof wooof.




Of late years the Manilla rope has in the American fishery almost
Wf woof wooof wof Wooooof woof wof wf wof Woooooof wooooof woooof

entirely superseded hemp as a material for whale-lines; for, though not
woooooof woooooooof woof wf w woooooof wof wooof-wooof; wof, woooof wof

so durable as hemp, it is stronger, and far more soft and elastic; and
wf wooooof wf woof, wf wf woooooof, wof wof woof woof wof wooooof; wof

I will add (since there is an aesthetics in all things), is much more
W woof wof (wooof wooof wf wf woooooooof wf wof woooof), wf woof woof

handsome and becoming to the boat, than hemp. Hemp is a dusky, dark
woooooof wof woooooof wf wof woof, woof woof. Woof wf w wooof, woof

fellow, a sort of Indian; but Manilla is as a golden-haired Circassian
woooof, w woof wf Woooof; wof Wooooof wf wf w woooof-woooof Woooooooof

to behold.
wf woooof.




The whale-line is only two-thirds of an inch in thickness. At first
Wof wooof-woof wf woof wof-woooof wf wf woof wf wooooooof. Wf wooof

sight, you would not think it so strong as it really is. By experiment
wooof, wof wooof wof wooof wf wf woooof wf wf woooof wf. Wf woooooooof

its one and fifty yarns will each suspend a weight of one hundred and
wof wof wof wooof wooof woof woof wooooof w woooof wf wof wooooof wof

twenty pounds; so that the whole rope will bear a strain nearly equal
woooof woooof; wf woof wof wooof woof woof woof w woooof woooof wooof

to three tons. In length, the common sperm whale-line measures something
wf wooof woof. Wf woooof, wof woooof wooof wooof-woof woooooof wooooooof

over two hundred fathoms. Towards the stern of the boat it is spirally
woof wof wooooof wooooof. Wooooof wof wooof wf wof woof wf wf woooooof

coiled away in the tub, not like the worm-pipe of a still though, but so
woooof woof wf wof wof, wof woof wof woof-woof wf w wooof woooof, wof wf

as to form one round, cheese-shaped mass of densely bedded "sheaves," or
wf wf woof wof wooof, woooof-woooof woof wf wooooof woooof "wooooof," wf

layers of concentric spiralizations, without any hollow but the "heart,"
woooof wf woooooooof woooooooooooof, wooooof wof woooof wof wof "wooof,"

or minute vertical tube formed at the axis of the cheese. As the least
wf woooof woooooof woof woooof wf wof woof wf wof woooof. Wf wof wooof

tangle or kink in the coiling would, in running out, infallibly take
woooof wf woof wf wof wooooof wooof, wf wooooof wof, woooooooof woof

somebody's arm, leg, or entire body off, the utmost precaution is used
woooooof'w wof, wof, wf woooof woof wof, wof woooof woooooooof wf woof

in stowing the line in its tub. Some harpooneers will consume almost an
wf wooooof wof woof wf wof wof. Woof wooooooooof woof wooooof woooof wf

entire morning in this business, carrying the line high aloft and then
woooof wooooof wf woof woooooof, woooooof wof woof woof wooof wof woof

reeving it downwards through a block towards the tub, so as in the act
wooooof wf wooooooof wooooof w wooof wooooof wof wof, wf wf wf wof wof

of coiling to free it from all possible wrinkles and twists.
wf wooooof wf woof wf woof wof woooooof woooooof wof woooof.




In the English boats two tubs are used instead of one; the same line
Wf wof Wooooof wooof wof woof wof woof wooooof wf wof; wof woof woof

being continuously coiled in both tubs. There is some advantage in this;
wooof woooooooooof woooof wf woof woof. Wooof wf woof wooooooof wf woof;

because these twin-tubs being so small they fit more readily into the
wooooof wooof woof-woof wooof wf wooof woof wof woof wooooof woof wof

boat, and do not strain it so much; whereas, the American tub, nearly
woof, wof wf wof woooof wf wf woof; wooooof, wof Woooooof wof, woooof

three feet in diameter and of proportionate depth, makes a rather bulky
wooof woof wf woooooof wof wf wooooooooooof wooof, wooof w woooof wooof

freight for a craft whose planks are but one half-inch in thickness; for
wooooof wof w wooof wooof woooof wof wof wof woof-woof wf wooooooof; wof

the bottom of the whale-boat is like critical ice, which will bear up
wof woooof wf wof wooof-woof wf woof woooooof wof, wooof woof woof wf

a considerable distributed weight, but not very much of a concentrated
w woooooooooof wooooooooof woooof, wof wof woof woof wf w woooooooooof

one. When the painted canvas cover is clapped on the American line-tub,
wof. Woof wof wooooof woooof wooof wf wooooof wf wof Woooooof woof-wof,

the boat looks as if it were pulling off with a prodigious great
wof woof wooof wf wf wf woof wooooof wof woof w woooooooof wooof

wedding-cake to present to the whales.
wooooof-woof wf wooooof wf wof woooof.




Both ends of the line are exposed; the lower end terminating in an
Woof woof wf wof woof wof wooooof; wof wooof wof wooooooooof wf wf

eye-splice or loop coming up from the bottom against the side of the
wof-woooof wf woof woooof wf woof wof woooof wooooof wof woof wf wof

tub, and hanging over its edge completely disengaged from everything.
wof, wof wooooof woof wof woof woooooooof woooooooof woof woooooooof.

This arrangement of the lower end is necessary on two accounts. First:
Woof wooooooooof wf wof wooof wof wf wooooooof wf wof woooooof. Wooof:

In order to facilitate the fastening to it of an additional line from a
Wf wooof wf woooooooof wof wooooooof wf wf wf wf woooooooof woof woof w

neighboring boat, in case the stricken whale should sound so deep as
wooooooooof woof, wf woof wof woooooof wooof woooof wooof wf woof wf

to threaten to carry off the entire line originally attached to the
wf woooooof wf wooof wof wof woooof woof woooooooof woooooof wf wof

harpoon. In these instances, the whale of course is shifted like a mug
wooooof. Wf wooof wooooooof, wof wooof wf woooof wf wooooof woof w wof

of ale, as it were, from the one boat to the other; though the
wf wof, wf wf woof, woof wof wof woof wf wof wooof; woooof wof

first boat always hovers at hand to assist its consort. Second: This
wooof woof woooof woooof wf woof wf woooof wof wooooof. Woooof: Woof

arrangement is indispensable for common safety's sake; for were the
wooooooooof wf wooooooooooof wof woooof woooof'w woof; wof woof wof

lower end of the line in any way attached to the boat, and were the
wooof wof wf wof woof wf wof wof woooooof wf wof woof, wof woof wof

whale then to run the line out to the end almost in a single, smoking
wooof woof wf wof wof woof wof wf wof wof woooof wf w woooof, wooooof

minute as he sometimes does, he would not stop there, for the doomed
woooof wf wf wooooooof woof, wf wooof wof woof wooof, wof wof woooof

boat would infallibly be dragged down after him into the profundity of
woof wooof woooooooof wf wooooof woof wooof wof woof wof woooooooof wf

the sea; and in that case no town-crier would ever find her again.
wof wof; wof wf woof woof wf woof-wooof wooof woof woof wof wooof.




Before lowering the boat for the chase, the upper end of the line is
Woooof woooooof wof woof wof wof wooof, wof wooof wof wf wof woof wf

taken aft from the tub, and passing round the loggerhead there, is again
wooof wof woof wof wof, wof wooooof wooof wof woooooooof wooof, wf wooof

carried forward the entire length of the boat, resting crosswise upon
wooooof wooooof wof woooof woooof wf wof woof, wooooof wooooooof woof

the loom or handle of every man's oar, so that it jogs against his wrist
wof woof wf woooof wf wooof wof'w wof, wf woof wf woof wooooof wof wooof

in rowing; and also passing between the men, as they alternately sit at
wf woooof; wof woof wooooof wooooof wof wof, wf woof wooooooooof wof wf

the opposite gunwales, to the leaded chocks or grooves in the extreme
wof woooooof woooooof, wf wof woooof woooof wf wooooof wf wof wooooof

pointed prow of the boat, where a wooden pin or skewer the size of a
wooooof woof wf wof woof, wooof w woooof wof wf woooof wof woof wf w

common quill, prevents it from slipping out. From the chocks it hangs
woooof wooof, woooooof wf woof woooooof wof. Woof wof woooof wf wooof

in a slight festoon over the bows, and is then passed inside the boat
wf w woooof wooooof woof wof woof, wof wf woof woooof woooof wof woof

again; and some ten or twenty fathoms (called box-line) being coiled
wooof; wof woof wof wf woooof wooooof (woooof wof-woof) wooof woooof

upon the box in the bows, it continues its way to the gunwale still a
woof wof wof wf wof woof, wf wooooooof wof wof wf wof wooooof wooof w

little further aft, and is then attached to the short-warp--the rope
woooof wooooof wof, wof wf woof woooooof wf wof wooof-woof--wof woof

which is immediately connected with the harpoon; but previous to that
wooof wf wooooooooof wooooooof woof wof wooooof; wof woooooof wf woof

connexion, the short-warp goes through sundry mystifications too tedious
wooooooof, wof wooof-woof woof wooooof woooof woooooooooooof wof wooooof

to detail.
wf woooof.




Thus the whale-line folds the whole boat in its complicated coils,
Woof wof wooof-woof wooof wof wooof woof wf wof wooooooooof wooof,

twisting and writhing around it in almost every direction. All the
woooooof wof woooooof woooof wf wf woooof wooof wooooooof. Wof wof

oarsmen are involved in its perilous contortions; so that to the timid
wooooof wof woooooof wf wof woooooof wooooooooof; wf woof wf wof wooof

eye of the landsman, they seem as Indian jugglers, with the deadliest
wof wf wof woooooof, woof woof wf Woooof woooooof, woof wof wooooooof

snakes sportively festooning their limbs. Nor can any son of mortal
woooof woooooooof woooooooof wooof wooof. Wof wof wof wof wf woooof

woman, for the first time, seat himself amid those hempen intricacies,
wooof, wof wof wooof woof, woof wooooof woof wooof woooof wooooooooof,

and while straining his utmost at the oar, bethink him that at any
wof wooof wooooooof wof woooof wf wof wof, wooooof wof woof wf wof

unknown instant the harpoon may be darted, and all these horrible
wooooof wooooof wof wooooof wof wf woooof, wof wof wooof woooooof

contortions be put in play like ringed lightnings; he cannot be thus
wooooooooof wf wof wf woof woof woooof woooooooof; wf woooof wf woof

circumstanced without a shudder that makes the very marrow in his bones
wooooooooooof wooooof w wooooof woof wooof wof woof woooof wf wof wooof

to quiver in him like a shaken jelly. Yet habit--strange thing! what
wf woooof wf wof woof w woooof wooof. Wof wooof--wooooof wooof! woof

cannot habit accomplish?--Gayer sallies, more merry mirth, better jokes,
woooof wooof woooooooof?--Wooof wooooof, woof wooof wooof, woooof wooof,

and brighter repartees, you never heard over your mahogany, than you
wof woooooof wooooooof, wof wooof wooof woof woof woooooof, woof wof

will hear over the half-inch white cedar of the whale-boat, when thus
woof woof woof wof woof-woof wooof wooof wf wof wooof-woof, woof woof

hung in hangman's nooses; and, like the six burghers of Calais before
woof wf wooooof'w woooof; wof, woof wof wof woooooof wf Woooof woooof

King Edward, the six men composing the crew pull into the jaws of death,
Woof Woooof, wof wof wof wooooooof wof woof woof woof wof woof wf wooof,

with a halter around every neck, as you may say.
woof w woooof woooof wooof woof, wf wof wof wof.




Perhaps a very little thought will now enable you to account for
Wooooof w woof woooof wooooof woof wof woooof wof wf wooooof wof

those repeated whaling disasters--some few of which are casually
wooof woooooof wooooof wooooooof--woof wof wf wooof wof woooooof

chronicled--of this man or that man being taken out of the boat by the
woooooooof--wf woof wof wf woof wof wooof wooof wof wf wof woof wf wof

line, and lost. For, when the line is darting out, to be seated then in
woof, wof woof. Wof, woof wof woof wf wooooof wof, wf wf woooof woof wf

the boat, is like being seated in the midst of the manifold whizzings
wof woof, wf woof wooof woooof wf wof wooof wf wof woooooof wooooooof

of a steam-engine in full play, when every flying beam, and shaft, and
wf w wooof-woooof wf woof woof, woof wooof woooof woof, wof wooof, wof

wheel, is grazing you. It is worse; for you cannot sit motionless in the
wooof, wf wooooof wof. Wf wf wooof; wof wof woooof wof woooooooof wf wof

heart of these perils, because the boat is rocking like a cradle, and
wooof wf wooof woooof, wooooof wof woof wf wooooof woof w woooof, wof

you are pitched one way and the other, without the slightest warning;
wof wof wooooof wof wof wof wof wooof, wooooof wof wooooooof wooooof;

and only by a certain self-adjusting buoyancy and simultaneousness of
wof woof wf w wooooof woof-wooooooof woooooof wof woooooooooooooof wf

volition and action, can you escape being made a Mazeppa of, and run
woooooof wof woooof, wof wof woooof wooof woof w Wooooof wf, wof wof

away with where the all-seeing sun himself could never pierce you out.
woof woof wooof wof wof-woooof wof wooooof wooof wooof woooof wof wof.




Again: as the profound calm which only apparently precedes and
Wooof: wf wof woooooof woof wooof woof woooooooof woooooof wof

prophesies of the storm, is perhaps more awful than the storm itself;
woooooooof wf wof wooof, wf wooooof woof wooof woof wof wooof woooof;

for, indeed, the calm is but the wrapper and envelope of the storm; and
wof, woooof, wof woof wf wof wof wooooof wof woooooof wf wof wooof; wof

contains it in itself, as the seemingly harmless rifle holds the fatal
woooooof wf wf woooof, wf wof wooooooof woooooof wooof wooof wof wooof

powder, and the ball, and the explosion; so the graceful repose of the
woooof, wof wof woof, wof wof wooooooof; wf wof woooooof woooof wf wof

line, as it silently serpentines about the oarsmen before being brought
woof, wf wf woooooof wooooooooof wooof wof wooooof woooof wooof wooooof

into actual play--this is a thing which carries more of true terror than
woof woooof woof--woof wf w wooof wooof wooooof woof wf woof woooof woof

any other aspect of this dangerous affair. But why say more? All men
wof wooof woooof wf woof wooooooof woooof. Wof wof wof woof? Wof wof

live enveloped in whale-lines. All are born with halters round their
woof wooooooof wf wooof-wooof. Wof wof woof woof wooooof wooof wooof

necks; but it is only when caught in the swift, sudden turn of death,
wooof; wof wf wf woof woof woooof wf wof wooof, woooof woof wf wooof,

that mortals realize the silent, subtle, ever-present perils of life.
woof wooooof wooooof wof woooof, woooof, woof-wooooof woooof wf woof.

And if you be a philosopher, though seated in the whale-boat, you would
Wof wf wof wf w wooooooooof, woooof woooof wf wof wooof-woof, wof wooof

not at heart feel one whit more of terror, than though seated before
wof wf wooof woof wof woof woof wf woooof, woof woooof woooof woooof

your evening fire with a poker, and not a harpoon, by your side.
woof wooooof woof woof w wooof, wof wof w wooooof, wf woof woof.










CHAPTER 61. Stubb Kills a Whale.
WOOOOOF wf. Wooof Wooof w Wooof.







If to Starbuck the apparition of the Squid was a thing of portents, to
Wf wf Woooooof wof woooooooof wf wof Wooof wof w wooof wf woooooof, wf

Queequeg it was quite a different object.
Woooooof wf wof wooof w wooooooof woooof.




"When you see him 'quid," said the savage, honing his harpoon in the bow
"Woof wof wof wof 'woof," woof wof woooof, woooof wof wooooof wf wof wof

of his hoisted boat, "then you quick see him 'parm whale."
wf wof wooooof woof, "woof wof wooof wof wof 'woof wooof."




The next day was exceedingly still and sultry, and with nothing special
Wof woof wof wof wooooooooof wooof wof woooof, wof woof wooooof wooooof

to engage them, the Pequod's crew could hardly resist the spell of sleep
wf woooof woof, wof Woooof'w woof wooof woooof woooof wof wooof wf wooof

induced by such a vacant sea. For this part of the Indian Ocean through
wooooof wf woof w woooof wof. Wof woof woof wf wof Woooof Wooof wooooof

which we then were voyaging is not what whalemen call a lively ground;
wooof wf woof woof woooooof wf wof woof woooooof woof w woooof woooof;

that is, it affords fewer glimpses of porpoises, dolphins, flying-fish,
woof wf, wf wooooof wooof woooooof wf wooooooof, woooooof, woooof-woof,

and other vivacious denizens of more stirring waters, than those off the
wof wooof wooooooof woooooof wf woof woooooof woooof, woof wooof wof wof

Rio de la Plata, or the in-shore ground off Peru.
Wof wf wf Wooof, wf wof wf-wooof woooof wof Woof.




It was my turn to stand at the foremast-head; and with my shoulders
Wf wof wf woof wf wooof wf wof woooooof-woof; wof woof wf wooooooof

leaning against the slackened royal shrouds, to and fro I idly swayed in
wooooof wooooof wof wooooooof wooof wooooof, wf wof wof W woof woooof wf

what seemed an enchanted air. No resolution could withstand it; in that
woof woooof wf wooooooof wof. Wf woooooooof wooof wooooooof wf; wf woof

dreamy mood losing all consciousness, at last my soul went out of my
woooof woof woooof wof wooooooooooof, wf woof wf woof woof wof wf wf

body; though my body still continued to sway as a pendulum will, long
woof; woooof wf woof wooof wooooooof wf woof wf w woooooof woof, woof

after the power which first moved it is withdrawn.
wooof wof wooof wooof wooof wooof wf wf wooooooof.




Ere forgetfulness altogether came over me, I had noticed that the seamen
Wof wooooooooooof woooooooof woof woof wf, W wof wooooof woof wof woooof

at the main and mizzen-mast-heads were already drowsy. So that at last
wf wof woof wof woooof-woof-wooof woof wooooof woooof. Wf woof wf woof

all three of us lifelessly swung from the spars, and for every swing
wof wooof wf wf woooooooof wooof woof wof wooof, wof wof wooof wooof

that we made there was a nod from below from the slumbering helmsman.
woof wf woof wooof wof w wof woof wooof woof wof woooooooof woooooof.

The waves, too, nodded their indolent crests; and across the wide trance
Wof wooof, wof, woooof wooof woooooof woooof; wof woooof wof woof woooof

of the sea, east nodded to west, and the sun over all.
wf wof wof, woof woooof wf woof, wof wof wof woof wof.




Suddenly bubbles seemed bursting beneath my closed eyes; like vices my
Woooooof wooooof woooof woooooof wooooof wf woooof woof; woof wooof wf

hands grasped the shrouds; some invisible, gracious agency preserved me;
wooof wooooof wof wooooof; woof wooooooof, woooooof woooof wooooooof wf;

with a shock I came back to life. And lo! close under our lee, not forty
woof w wooof W woof woof wf woof. Wof wf! wooof wooof wof wof, wof wooof

fathoms off, a gigantic Sperm Whale lay rolling in the water like the
wooooof wof, w woooooof Wooof Wooof wof wooooof wf wof wooof woof wof

capsized hull of a frigate, his broad, glossy back, of an Ethiopian hue,
woooooof woof wf w wooooof, wof wooof, woooof woof, wf wf Wooooooof wof,

glistening in the sun's rays like a mirror. But lazily undulating in
woooooooof wf wof wof'w woof woof w woooof. Wof woooof woooooooof wf

the trough of the sea, and ever and anon tranquilly spouting his vapoury
wof woooof wf wof wof, wof woof wof woof woooooooof woooooof wof wooooof

jet, the whale looked like a portly burgher smoking his pipe of a warm
wof, wof wooof woooof woof w woooof wooooof wooooof wof woof wf w woof

afternoon. But that pipe, poor whale, was thy last. As if struck by some
wooooooof. Wof woof woof, woof wooof, wof wof woof. Wf wf woooof wf woof

enchanter's wand, the sleepy ship and every sleeper in it all at once
wooooooof'w woof, wof woooof woof wof wooof wooooof wf wf wof wf woof

started into wakefulness; and more than a score of voices from all parts
wooooof woof wooooooooof; wof woof woof w wooof wf woooof woof wof wooof

of the vessel, simultaneously with the three notes from aloft, shouted
wf wof woooof, woooooooooooof woof wof wooof wooof woof wooof, wooooof

forth the accustomed cry, as the great fish slowly and regularly spouted
wooof wof woooooooof wof, wf wof wooof woof woooof wof wooooooof wooooof

the sparkling brine into the air.
wof wooooooof wooof woof wof wof.




"Clear away the boats! Luff!" cried Ahab. And obeying his own order, he
"Wooof woof wof wooof! Woof!" wooof Woof. Wof wooooof wof wof wooof, wf

dashed the helm down before the helmsman could handle the spokes.
woooof wof woof woof woooof wof woooooof wooof woooof wof woooof.




The sudden exclamations of the crew must have alarmed the whale; and ere
Wof woooof woooooooooof wf wof woof woof woof wooooof wof wooof; wof wof

the boats were down, majestically turning, he swam away to the leeward,
wof wooof woof woof, woooooooooof wooooof, wf woof woof wf wof wooooof,

but with such a steady tranquillity, and making so few ripples as he
wof woof woof w woooof woooooooooof, wof woooof wf wof wooooof wf wf

swam, that thinking after all he might not as yet be alarmed, Ahab gave
woof, woof woooooof wooof wof wf wooof wof wf wof wf wooooof, Woof woof

orders that not an oar should be used, and no man must speak but in
woooof woof wof wf wof woooof wf woof, wof wf wof woof wooof wof wf

whispers. So seated like Ontario Indians on the gunwales of the boats,
woooooof. Wf woooof woof Wooooof Wooooof wf wof woooooof wf wof wooof,

we swiftly but silently paddled along; the calm not admitting of the
wf wooooof wof woooooof wooooof wooof; wof woof wof wooooooof wf wof

noiseless sails being set. Presently, as we thus glided in chase, the
wooooooof wooof wooof wof. Wooooooof, wf wf woof woooof wf wooof, wof

monster perpendicularly flitted his tail forty feet into the air, and
wooooof wooooooooooooof wooooof wof woof wooof woof woof wof wof, wof

then sank out of sight like a tower swallowed up.
woof woof wof wf wooof woof w wooof wooooooof wf.




"There go flukes!" was the cry, an announcement immediately followed by
"Wooof wf woooof!" wof wof wof, wf woooooooooof wooooooooof woooooof wf

Stubb's producing his match and igniting his pipe, for now a respite was
Wooof'w wooooooof wof wooof wof woooooof wof woof, wof wof w wooooof wof

granted. After the full interval of his sounding had elapsed, the whale
wooooof. Wooof wof woof woooooof wf wof woooooof wof wooooof, wof wooof

rose again, and being now in advance of the smoker's boat, and much
woof wooof, wof wooof wof wf wooooof wf wof woooof'w woof, wof woof

nearer to it than to any of the others, Stubb counted upon the honour
woooof wf wf woof wf wof wf wof woooof, Wooof wooooof woof wof woooof

of the capture. It was obvious, now, that the whale had at length become
wf wof wooooof. Wf wof wooooof, wof, woof wof wooof wof wf woooof woooof

aware of his pursuers. All silence of cautiousness was therefore no
wooof wf wof woooooof. Wof wooooof wf woooooooooof wof wooooooof wf

longer of use. Paddles were dropped, and oars came loudly into play. And
woooof wf wof. Wooooof woof wooooof, wof woof woof woooof woof woof. Wof

still puffing at his pipe, Stubb cheered on his crew to the assault.
wooof wooooof wf wof woof, Wooof wooooof wf wof woof wf wof wooooof.




Yes, a mighty change had come over the fish. All alive to his jeopardy,
Wof, w woooof woooof wof woof woof wof woof. Wof wooof wf wof woooooof,

he was going "head out"; that part obliquely projecting from the mad
wf wof wooof "woof wof"; woof woof wooooooof woooooooof woof wof wof

yeast which he brewed.*
wooof wooof wf woooof.*







*It will be seen in some other place of what a very light substance
*Wf woof wf woof wf woof wooof wooof wf woof w woof wooof wooooooof

the entire interior of the sperm whale's enormous head consists. Though
wof woooof woooooof wf wof wooof wooof'w woooooof woof woooooof. Woooof

apparently the most massive, it is by far the most buoyant part about
woooooooof wof woof wooooof, wf wf wf wof wof woof wooooof woof wooof

him. So that with ease he elevates it in the air, and invariably does
wof. Wf woof woof woof wf woooooof wf wf wof wof, wof woooooooof woof

so when going at his utmost speed. Besides, such is the breadth of the
wf woof wooof wf wof woooof wooof. Wooooof, woof wf wof wooooof wf wof

upper part of the front of his head, and such the tapering cut-water
wooof woof wf wof wooof wf wof woof, wof woof wof woooooof wof-wooof

formation of the lower part, that by obliquely elevating his head, he
wooooooof wf wof wooof woof, woof wf wooooooof wooooooof wof woof, wf

thereby may be said to transform himself from a bluff-bowed sluggish
wooooof wof wf woof wf wooooooof wooooof woof w wooof-wooof woooooof

galliot into a sharppointed New York pilot-boat.
wooooof woof w woooooooooof Wof Woof wooof-woof.







"Start her, start her, my men! Don't hurry yourselves; take plenty of
"Wooof wof, wooof wof, wf wof! Wof'w wooof woooooooof; woof woooof wf

time--but start her; start her like thunder-claps, that's all," cried
woof--wof wooof wof; wooof wof woof wooooof-wooof, woof'w wof," wooof

Stubb, spluttering out the smoke as he spoke. "Start her, now; give 'em
Wooof, wooooooooof wof wof wooof wf wf wooof. "Wooof wof, wof; woof 'wf

the long and strong stroke, Tashtego. Start her, Tash, my boy--start
wof woof wof woooof woooof, Woooooof. Wooof wof, Woof, wf wof--wooof

her, all; but keep cool, keep cool--cucumbers is the word--easy,
wof, wof; wof woof woof, woof woof--wooooooof wf wof woof--woof,

easy--only start her like grim death and grinning devils, and raise the
woof--woof wooof wof woof woof wooof wof woooooof woooof, wof wooof wof

buried dead perpendicular out of their graves, boys--that's all. Start
woooof woof wooooooooooof wof wf wooof woooof, woof--woof'w wof. Wooof

her!"
wof!"




"Woo-hoo! Wa-hee!" screamed the Gay-Header in reply, raising some
"Wof-wof! Wf-wof!" woooooof wof Wof-Woooof wf wooof, wooooof woof

old war-whoop to the skies; as every oarsman in the strained boat
wof wof-wooof wf wof wooof; wf wooof wooooof wf wof woooooof woof

involuntarily bounced forward with the one tremendous leading stroke
wooooooooooof wooooof wooooof woof wof wof woooooooof wooooof woooof

which the eager Indian gave.
wooof wof wooof Woooof woof.




But his wild screams were answered by others quite as wild. "Kee-hee!
Wof wof woof wooooof woof woooooof wf woooof wooof wf woof. "Wof-wof!

Kee-hee!" yelled Daggoo, straining forwards and backwards on his seat,
Wof-wof!" woooof Woooof, wooooooof woooooof wof wooooooof wf wof woof,

like a pacing tiger in his cage.
woof w woooof wooof wf wof woof.




"Ka-la! Koo-loo!" howled Queequeg, as if smacking his lips over a
"Wf-wf! Wof-wof!" woooof Woooooof, wf wf woooooof wof woof woof w

mouthful of Grenadier's steak. And thus with oars and yells the keels
woooooof wf Wooooooof'w wooof. Wof woof woof woof wof wooof wof wooof

cut the sea. Meanwhile, Stubb retaining his place in the van, still
wof wof wof. Wooooooof, Wooof wooooooof wof wooof wf wof wof, wooof

encouraged his men to the onset, all the while puffing the smoke from
woooooooof wof wof wf wof wooof, wof wof wooof wooooof wof wooof woof

his mouth. Like desperadoes they tugged and they strained, till the
wof wooof. Woof wooooooooof woof woooof wof woof woooooof, woof wof

welcome cry was heard--"Stand up, Tashtego!--give it to him!" The
wooooof wof wof wooof--"Wooof wf, Woooooof!--woof wf wf wof!" Wof

harpoon was hurled. "Stern all!" The oarsmen backed water; the same
wooooof wof woooof. "Wooof wof!" Wof wooooof woooof wooof; wof woof

moment something went hot and hissing along every one of their wrists.
woooof wooooooof woof wof wof wooooof wooof wooof wof wf wooof woooof.

It was the magical line. An instant before, Stubb had swiftly caught two
Wf wof wof wooooof woof. Wf wooooof woooof, Wooof wof wooooof woooof wof

additional turns with it round the loggerhead, whence, by reason of its
woooooooof wooof woof wf wooof wof woooooooof, woooof, wf woooof wf wof

increased rapid circlings, a hempen blue smoke now jetted up and mingled
wooooooof wooof wooooooof, w woooof woof wooof wof woooof wf wof wooooof

with the steady fumes from his pipe. As the line passed round and
woof wof woooof wooof woof wof woof. Wf wof woof woooof wooof wof

round the loggerhead; so also, just before reaching that point, it
wooof wof woooooooof; wf woof, woof woooof woooooof woof wooof, wf

blisteringly passed through and through both of Stubb's hands, from
woooooooooof woooof wooooof wof wooooof woof wf Wooof'w wooof, woof

which the hand-cloths, or squares of quilted canvas sometimes worn at
wooof wof woof-woooof, wf wooooof wf wooooof woooof wooooooof woof wf

these times, had accidentally dropped. It was like holding an enemy's
wooof wooof, wof woooooooooof wooooof. Wf wof woof wooooof wf wooof'w

sharp two-edged sword by the blade, and that enemy all the time striving
wooof wof-wooof wooof wf wof wooof, wof woof wooof wof wof woof woooooof

to wrest it out of your clutch.
wf wooof wf wof wf woof woooof.




"Wet the line! wet the line!" cried Stubb to the tub oarsman (him seated
"Wof wof woof! wof wof woof!" wooof Wooof wf wof wof wooooof (wof woooof

by the tub) who, snatching off his hat, dashed sea-water into it.* More
wf wof wof) wof, wooooooof wof wof wof, woooof wof-wooof woof wf.* Woof

turns were taken, so that the line began holding its place. The boat now
wooof woof wooof, wf woof wof woof wooof wooooof wof wooof. Wof woof wof

flew through the boiling water like a shark all fins. Stubb and Tashtego
woof wooooof wof wooooof wooof woof w wooof wof woof. Wooof wof Woooooof

here changed places--stem for stern--a staggering business truly in that
woof wooooof woooof--woof wof wooof--w woooooooof woooooof wooof wf woof

rocking commotion.
wooooof wooooooof.







*Partly to show the indispensableness of this act, it may here be
*Woooof wf woof wof wooooooooooooooof wf woof wof, wf wof woof wf

stated, that, in the old Dutch fishery, a mop was used to dash the
woooof, woof, wf wof wof Wooof wooooof, w wof wof woof wf woof wof

running line with water; in many other ships, a wooden piggin, or
wooooof woof woof wooof; wf woof wooof wooof, w woooof woooof, wf

bailer, is set apart for that purpose. Your hat, however, is the most
woooof, wf wof wooof wof woof wooooof. Woof wof, wooooof, wf wof woof

convenient.
woooooooof.







From the vibrating line extending the entire length of the upper part of
Woof wof wooooooof woof wooooooof wof woooof woooof wf wof wooof woof wf

the boat, and from its now being more tight than a harpstring, you would
wof woof, wof woof wof wof wooof woof wooof woof w woooooooof, wof wooof

have thought the craft had two keels--one cleaving the water, the other
woof wooooof wof wooof wof wof wooof--wof woooooof wof wooof, wof wooof

the air--as the boat churned on through both opposing elements at once.
wof wof--wf wof woof wooooof wf wooooof woof woooooof woooooof wf woof.

A continual cascade played at the bows; a ceaseless whirling eddy in
W wooooooof wooooof woooof wf wof woof; w wooooooof woooooof woof wf

her wake; and, at the slightest motion from within, even but of a little
wof woof; wof, wf wof wooooooof woooof woof woooof, woof wof wf w woooof

finger, the vibrating, cracking craft canted over her spasmodic gunwale
woooof, wof wooooooof, woooooof wooof woooof woof wof wooooooof wooooof

into the sea. Thus they rushed; each man with might and main clinging
woof wof wof. Woof woof woooof; woof wof woof wooof wof woof woooooof

to his seat, to prevent being tossed to the foam; and the tall form of
wf wof woof, wf wooooof wooof woooof wf wof woof; wof wof woof woof wf

Tashtego at the steering oar crouching almost double, in order to bring
Woooooof wf wof woooooof wof wooooooof woooof woooof, wf wooof wf wooof

down his centre of gravity. Whole Atlantics and Pacifics seemed passed
woof wof woooof wf wooooof. Wooof Wooooooof wof Woooooof woooof woooof

as they shot on their way, till at length the whale somewhat slackened
wf woof woof wf wooof wof, woof wf woooof wof wooof woooooof wooooooof

his flight.
wof woooof.




"Haul in--haul in!" cried Stubb to the bowsman! and, facing round
"Woof wf--woof wf!" wooof Wooof wf wof wooooof! wof, woooof wooof

towards the whale, all hands began pulling the boat up to him, while yet
wooooof wof wooof, wof wooof wooof wooooof wof woof wf wf wof, wooof wof

the boat was being towed on. Soon ranging up by his flank, Stubb, firmly
wof woof wof wooof wooof wf. Woof wooooof wf wf wof wooof, Wooof, woooof

planting his knee in the clumsy cleat, darted dart after dart into the
woooooof wof woof wf wof woooof wooof, woooof woof wooof woof woof wof

flying fish; at the word of command, the boat alternately sterning
woooof woof; wf wof woof wf wooooof, wof woof wooooooooof woooooof

out of the way of the whale's horrible wallow, and then ranging up for
wof wf wof wof wf wof wooof'w woooooof woooof, wof woof wooooof wf wof

another fling.
wooooof wooof.




The red tide now poured from all sides of the monster like brooks down a
Wof wof woof wof woooof woof wof wooof wf wof wooooof woof woooof woof w

hill. His tormented body rolled not in brine but in blood, which bubbled
woof. Wof wooooooof woof woooof wof wf wooof wof wf wooof, wooof wooooof

and seethed for furlongs behind in their wake. The slanting sun playing
wof wooooof wof woooooof woooof wf wooof woof. Wof woooooof wof wooooof

upon this crimson pond in the sea, sent back its reflection into every
woof woof wooooof woof wf wof wof, woof woof wof woooooooof woof wooof

face, so that they all glowed to each other like red men. And all
woof, wf woof woof wof woooof wf woof wooof woof wof wof. Wof wof

the while, jet after jet of white smoke was agonizingly shot from the
wof wooof, wof wooof wof wf wooof wooof wof wooooooooof woof woof wof

spiracle of the whale, and vehement puff after puff from the mouth of
woooooof wf wof wooof, wof woooooof woof wooof woof woof wof wooof wf

the excited headsman; as at every dart, hauling in upon his crooked
wof wooooof woooooof; wf wf wooof woof, wooooof wf woof wof wooooof

lance (by the line attached to it), Stubb straightened it again and
wooof (wf wof woof woooooof wf wf), Wooof woooooooooof wf wooof wof

again, by a few rapid blows against the gunwale, then again and again
wooof, wf w wof wooof wooof wooooof wof wooooof, woof wooof wof wooof

sent it into the whale.
woof wf woof wof wooof.




"Pull up--pull up!" he now cried to the bowsman, as the waning whale
"Woof wf--woof wf!" wf wof wooof wf wof wooooof, wf wof woooof wooof

relaxed in his wrath. "Pull up!--close to!" and the boat ranged along
wooooof wf wof wooof. "Woof wf!--wooof wf!" wof wof woof woooof wooof

the fish's flank. When reaching far over the bow, Stubb slowly churned
wof woof'w wooof. Woof woooooof wof woof wof wof, Wooof woooof wooooof

his long sharp lance into the fish, and kept it there, carefully
wof woof wooof wooof woof wof woof, wof woof wf wooof, wooooooof

churning and churning, as if cautiously seeking to feel after some gold
woooooof wof woooooof, wf wf woooooooof wooooof wf woof wooof woof woof

watch that the whale might have swallowed, and which he was fearful of
wooof woof wof wooof wooof woof wooooooof, wof wooof wf wof wooooof wf

breaking ere he could hook it out. But that gold watch he sought was the
woooooof wof wf wooof woof wf wof. Wof woof woof wooof wf woooof wof wof

innermost life of the fish. And now it is struck; for, starting from
wooooooof woof wf wof woof. Wof wof wf wf woooof; wof, woooooof woof

his trance into that unspeakable thing called his "flurry," the monster
wof woooof woof woof wooooooooof wooof woooof wof "woooof," wof wooooof

horribly wallowed in his blood, overwrapped himself in impenetrable,
woooooof woooooof wf wof wooof, wooooooooof wooooof wf woooooooooof,

mad, boiling spray, so that the imperilled craft, instantly dropping
wof, wooooof wooof, wf woof wof woooooooof wooof, wooooooof woooooof

astern, had much ado blindly to struggle out from that phrensied
woooof, wof woof wof wooooof wf woooooof wof woof woof wooooooof

twilight into the clear air of the day.
woooooof woof wof wooof wof wf wof wof.




And now abating in his flurry, the whale once more rolled out into view;
Wof wof wooooof wf wof woooof, wof wooof woof woof woooof wof woof woof;

surging from side to side; spasmodically dilating and contracting his
wooooof woof woof wf woof; wooooooooooof woooooof wof wooooooooof wof

spout-hole, with sharp, cracking, agonized respirations. At last, gush
wooof-woof, woof wooof, woooooof, woooooof woooooooooof. Wf woof, woof

after gush of clotted red gore, as if it had been the purple lees of red
wooof woof wf wooooof wof woof, wf wf wf wof woof wof woooof woof wf wof

wine, shot into the frighted air; and falling back again, ran dripping
woof, woof woof wof woooooof wof; wof wooooof woof wooof, wof woooooof

down his motionless flanks into the sea. His heart had burst!
woof wof woooooooof woooof woof wof wof. Wof wooof wof wooof!




"He's dead, Mr. Stubb," said Daggoo.
"Wf'w woof, Wf. Wooof," woof Woooof.




"Yes; both pipes smoked out!" and withdrawing his own from his mouth,
"Wof; woof wooof woooof wof!" wof wooooooooof wof wof woof wof wooof,

Stubb scattered the dead ashes over the water; and, for a moment, stood
Wooof wooooooof wof woof wooof woof wof wooof; wof, wof w woooof, wooof

thoughtfully eyeing the vast corpse he had made.
woooooooooof woooof wof woof woooof wf wof woof.










CHAPTER 62. The Dart.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Woof.







A word concerning an incident in the last chapter.
W woof woooooooof wf woooooof wf wof woof wooooof.




According to the invariable usage of the fishery, the whale-boat pushes
Wooooooof wf wof woooooooof wooof wf wof wooooof, wof wooof-woof woooof

off from the ship, with the headsman or whale-killer as temporary
wof woof wof woof, woof wof woooooof wf wooof-woooof wf wooooooof

steersman, and the harpooneer or whale-fastener pulling the foremost
wooooooof, wof wof woooooooof wf wooof-woooooof wooooof wof woooooof

oar, the one known as the harpooneer-oar. Now it needs a strong, nervous
wof, wof wof wooof wf wof woooooooof-wof. Wof wf wooof w woooof, wooooof

arm to strike the first iron into the fish; for often, in what is called
wof wf woooof wof wooof woof woof wof woof; wof wooof, wf woof wf woooof

a long dart, the heavy implement has to be flung to the distance of
w woof woof, wof wooof wooooooof wof wf wf wooof wf wof woooooof wf

twenty or thirty feet. But however prolonged and exhausting the chase,
woooof wf woooof woof. Wof wooooof wooooooof wof woooooooof wof wooof,

the harpooneer is expected to pull his oar meanwhile to the uttermost;
wof woooooooof wf woooooof wf woof wof wof wooooooof wf wof wooooooof;

indeed, he is expected to set an example of superhuman activity to the
woooof, wf wf woooooof wf wof wf wooooof wf woooooooof woooooof wf wof

rest, not only by incredible rowing, but by repeated loud and intrepid
woof, wof woof wf woooooooof woooof, wof wf woooooof woof wof woooooof

exclamations; and what it is to keep shouting at the top of one's
woooooooooof; wof woof wf wf wf woof woooooof wf wof wof wf wof'w

compass, while all the other muscles are strained and half started--what
wooooof, wooof wof wof wooof wooooof wof woooooof wof woof wooooof--woof

that is none know but those who have tried it. For one, I cannot bawl
woof wf woof woof wof wooof wof woof wooof wf. Wof wof, W woooof woof

very heartily and work very recklessly at one and the same time. In this
woof woooooof wof woof woof woooooooof wf wof wof wof woof woof. Wf woof

straining, bawling state, then, with his back to the fish, all at once
wooooooof, wooooof wooof, woof, woof wof woof wf wof woof, wof wf woof

the exhausted harpooneer hears the exciting cry--"Stand up, and give it
wof wooooooof woooooooof wooof wof woooooof wof--"Wooof wf, wof woof wf

to him!" He now has to drop and secure his oar, turn round on his
wf wof!" Wf wof wof wf woof wof woooof wof wof, woof wooof wf wof

centre half way, seize his harpoon from the crotch, and with what little
woooof woof wof, wooof wof wooooof woof wof woooof, wof woof woof woooof

strength may remain, he essays to pitch it somehow into the whale. No
woooooof wof woooof, wf woooof wf wooof wf wooooof woof wof wooof. Wf

wonder, taking the whole fleet of whalemen in a body, that out of fifty
woooof, woooof wof wooof wooof wf woooooof wf w woof, woof wof wf wooof

fair chances for a dart, not five are successful; no wonder that so many
woof wooooof wof w woof, wof woof wof woooooooof; wf woooof woof wf woof

hapless harpooneers are madly cursed and disrated; no wonder that some
wooooof wooooooooof wof wooof woooof wof woooooof; wf woooof woof woof

of them actually burst their blood-vessels in the boat; no wonder that
wf woof woooooof wooof wooof wooof-wooooof wf wof woof; wf woooof woof

some sperm whalemen are absent four years with four barrels; no wonder
woof wooof woooooof wof woooof woof wooof woof woof wooooof; wf woooof

that to many ship owners, whaling is but a losing concern; for it is the
woof wf woof woof woooof, wooooof wf wof w woooof wooooof; wof wf wf wof

harpooneer that makes the voyage, and if you take the breath out of his
woooooooof woof wooof wof woooof, wof wf wof woof wof woooof wof wf wof

body how can you expect to find it there when most wanted!
woof wof wof wof woooof wf woof wf wooof woof woof woooof!




Again, if the dart be successful, then at the second critical instant,
Wooof, wf wof woof wf woooooooof, woof wf wof woooof woooooof wooooof,

that is, when the whale starts to run, the boatheader and harpooneer
woof wf, woof wof wooof woooof wf wof, wof woooooooof wof woooooooof

likewise start to running fore and aft, to the imminent jeopardy of
woooooof wooof wf wooooof woof wof wof, wf wof woooooof woooooof wf

themselves and every one else. It is then they change places; and
woooooooof wof wooof wof woof. Wf wf woof woof woooof woooof; wof

the headsman, the chief officer of the little craft, takes his proper
wof woooooof, wof wooof wooooof wf wof woooof wooof, wooof wof woooof

station in the bows of the boat.
wooooof wf wof woof wf wof woof.




Now, I care not who maintains the contrary, but all this is both foolish
Wof, W woof wof wof wooooooof wof woooooof, wof wof woof wf woof wooooof

and unnecessary. The headsman should stay in the bows from first to
wof wooooooooof. Wof woooooof woooof woof wf wof woof woof wooof wf

last; he should both dart the harpoon and the lance, and no rowing
woof; wf woooof woof woof wof wooooof wof wof wooof, wof wf woooof

whatever should be expected of him, except under circumstances obvious
woooooof woooof wf woooooof wf wof, woooof wooof wooooooooooof wooooof

to any fisherman. I know that this would sometimes involve a slight loss
wf wof wooooooof. W woof woof woof wooof wooooooof wooooof w woooof woof

of speed in the chase; but long experience in various whalemen of more
wf wooof wf wof wooof; wof woof woooooooof wf wooooof woooooof wf woof

than one nation has convinced me that in the vast majority of failures
woof wof woooof wof wooooooof wf woof wf wof woof woooooof wf woooooof

in the fishery, it has not by any means been so much the speed of the
wf wof wooooof, wf wof wof wf wof wooof woof wf woof wof wooof wf wof

whale as the before described exhaustion of the harpooneer that has
wooof wf wof woooof wooooooof woooooooof wf wof woooooooof woof wof

caused them.
woooof woof.




To insure the greatest efficiency in the dart, the harpooneers of this
Wf woooof wof woooooof woooooooof wf wof woof, wof wooooooooof wf woof

world must start to their feet from out of idleness, and not from out of
wooof woof wooof wf wooof woof woof wof wf woooooof, wof wof woof wof wf

toil.
woof.










CHAPTER 63. The Crotch.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Woooof.







Out of the trunk, the branches grow; out of them, the twigs. So, in
Wof wf wof wooof, wof woooooof woof; wof wf woof, wof wooof. Wf, wf

productive subjects, grow the chapters.
woooooooof woooooof, woof wof woooooof.




The crotch alluded to on a previous page deserves independent mention.
Wof woooof wooooof wf wf w woooooof woof woooooof wooooooooof wooooof.

It is a notched stick of a peculiar form, some two feet in length, which
Wf wf w wooooof wooof wf w woooooof woof, woof wof woof wf woooof, wooof

is perpendicularly inserted into the starboard gunwale near the bow,
wf wooooooooooooof woooooof woof wof wooooooof wooooof woof wof wof,

for the purpose of furnishing a rest for the wooden extremity of the
wof wof wooooof wf woooooooof w woof wof wof woooof wooooooof wf wof

harpoon, whose other naked, barbed end slopingly projects from the prow.
wooooof, wooof wooof wooof, woooof wof wooooooof woooooof woof wof woof.

Thereby the weapon is instantly at hand to its hurler, who snatches it
Wooooof wof woooof wf wooooooof wf woof wf wof woooof, wof woooooof wf

up as readily from its rest as a backwoodsman swings his rifle from
wf wf wooooof woof wof woof wf w woooooooooof woooof wof wooof woof

the wall. It is customary to have two harpoons reposing in the crotch,
wof woof. Wf wf wooooooof wf woof wof woooooof woooooof wf wof woooof,

respectively called the first and second irons.
woooooooooof woooof wof wooof wof woooof wooof.




But these two harpoons, each by its own cord, are both connected with
Wof wooof wof woooooof, woof wf wof wof woof, wof woof wooooooof woof

the line; the object being this: to dart them both, if possible, one
wof woof; wof woooof wooof woof: wf woof woof woof, wf woooooof, wof

instantly after the other into the same whale; so that if, in the coming
wooooooof wooof wof wooof woof wof woof wooof; wf woof wf, wf wof woooof

drag, one should draw out, the other may still retain a hold. It is a
woof, wof woooof woof wof, wof wooof wof wooof woooof w woof. Wf wf w

doubling of the chances. But it very often happens that owing to the
woooooof wf wof wooooof. Wof wf woof wooof wooooof woof wooof wf wof

instantaneous, violent, convulsive running of the whale upon receiving
wooooooooooof, wooooof, woooooooof wooooof wf wof wooof woof wooooooof

the first iron, it becomes impossible for the harpooneer, however
wof wooof woof, wf wooooof woooooooof wof wof woooooooof, wooooof

lightning-like in his movements, to pitch the second iron into him.
wooooooof-woof wf wof wooooooof, wf wooof wof woooof woof woof wof.

Nevertheless, as the second iron is already connected with the line,
Woooooooooof, wf wof woooof woof wf wooooof wooooooof woof wof woof,

and the line is running, hence that weapon must, at all events, be
wof wof woof wf wooooof, wooof woof woooof woof, wf wof woooof, wf

anticipatingly tossed out of the boat, somehow and somewhere; else the
woooooooooooof woooof wof wf wof woof, wooooof wof wooooooof; woof wof

most terrible jeopardy would involve all hands. Tumbled into the water,
woof woooooof woooooof wooof wooooof wof wooof. Wooooof woof wof wooof,

it accordingly is in such cases; the spare coils of box line (mentioned
wf wooooooooof wf wf woof wooof; wof wooof wooof wf wof woof (wooooooof

in a preceding chapter) making this feat, in most instances, prudently
wf w wooooooof wooooof) woooof woof woof, wf woof wooooooof, wooooooof

practicable. But this critical act is not always unattended with the
wooooooooof. Wof woof woooooof wof wf wof woooof woooooooof woof wof

saddest and most fatal casualties.
wooooof wof woof wooof woooooooof.




Furthermore: you must know that when the second iron is thrown
Wooooooooof: wof woof woof woof woof wof woooof woof wf woooof

overboard, it thenceforth becomes a dangling, sharp-edged terror,
wooooooof, wf wooooooooof wooooof w woooooof, wooof-wooof woooof,

skittishly curvetting about both boat and whale, entangling the lines,
woooooooof woooooooof wooof woof woof wof wooof, woooooooof wof wooof,

or cutting them, and making a prodigious sensation in all directions.
wf wooooof woof, wof woooof w woooooooof wooooooof wf wof woooooooof.

Nor, in general, is it possible to secure it again until the whale is
Wof, wf wooooof, wf wf woooooof wf woooof wf wooof wooof wof wooof wf

fairly captured and a corpse.
woooof woooooof wof w woooof.




Consider, now, how it must be in the case of four boats all engaging
Woooooof, wof, wof wf woof wf wf wof woof wf woof wooof wof woooooof

one unusually strong, active, and knowing whale; when owing to these
wof wooooooof woooof, woooof, wof wooooof wooof; woof wooof wf wooof

qualities in him, as well as to the thousand concurring accidents of
wooooooof wf wof, wf woof wf wf wof woooooof woooooooof wooooooof wf

such an audacious enterprise, eight or ten loose second irons may be
woof wf wooooooof woooooooof, wooof wf wof wooof woooof wooof wof wf

simultaneously dangling about him. For, of course, each boat is supplied
woooooooooooof woooooof wooof wof. Wof, wf woooof, woof woof wf woooooof

with several harpoons to bend on to the line should the first one
woof wooooof woooooof wf woof wf wf wof woof woooof wof wooof wof

be ineffectually darted without recovery. All these particulars are
wf wooooooooooof woooof wooooof woooooof. Wof wooof wooooooooof wof

faithfully narrated here, as they will not fail to elucidate several
woooooooof woooooof woof, wf woof woof wof woof wf wooooooof wooooof

most important, however intricate passages, in scenes hereafter to be
woof wooooooof, wooooof wooooooof woooooof, wf woooof wooooooof wf wf

painted.
wooooof.










CHAPTER 64. Stubb's Supper.
WOOOOOF wf. Wooof'w Woooof.







Stubb's whale had been killed some distance from the ship. It was
Wooof'w wooof wof woof woooof woof woooooof woof wof woof. Wf wof

a calm; so, forming a tandem of three boats, we commenced the slow
w woof; wf, wooooof w woooof wf wooof wooof, wf wooooooof wof woof

business of towing the trophy to the Pequod. And now, as we eighteen men
woooooof wf woooof wof woooof wf wof Woooof. Wof wof, wf wf woooooof wof

with our thirty-six arms, and one hundred and eighty thumbs and fingers,
woof wof woooof-wof woof, wof wof wooooof wof woooof woooof wof wooooof,

slowly toiled hour after hour upon that inert, sluggish corpse in the
woooof woooof woof wooof woof woof woof wooof, woooooof woooof wf wof

sea; and it seemed hardly to budge at all, except at long intervals;
wof; wof wf woooof woooof wf wooof wf wof, woooof wf woof wooooooof;

good evidence was hereby furnished of the enormousness of the mass we
woof woooooof wof woooof wooooooof wf wof woooooooooof wf wof woof wf

moved. For, upon the great canal of Hang-Ho, or whatever they call
wooof. Wof, woof wof wooof wooof wf Woof-Wf, wf woooooof woof woof

it, in China, four or five laborers on the foot-path will draw a bulky
wf, wf Wooof, woof wf woof woooooof wf wof woof-woof woof woof w wooof

freighted junk at the rate of a mile an hour; but this grand argosy we
wooooooof woof wf wof woof wf w woof wf woof; wof woof wooof woooof wf

towed heavily forged along, as if laden with pig-lead in bulk.
wooof wooooof woooof wooof, wf wf wooof woof wof-woof wf woof.




Darkness came on; but three lights up and down in the Pequod's
Woooooof woof wf; wof wooof woooof wf wof woof wf wof Woooof'w

main-rigging dimly guided our way; till drawing nearer we saw Ahab
woof-wooooof wooof woooof wof wof; woof wooooof woooof wf wof Woof

dropping one of several more lanterns over the bulwarks. Vacantly eyeing
woooooof wof wf wooooof woof woooooof woof wof woooooof. Woooooof woooof

the heaving whale for a moment, he issued the usual orders for securing
wof wooooof wooof wof w woooof, wf woooof wof wooof woooof wof woooooof

it for the night, and then handing his lantern to a seaman, went his way
wf wof wof wooof, wof woof wooooof wof wooooof wf w woooof, woof wof wof

into the cabin, and did not come forward again until morning.
woof wof wooof, wof wof wof woof wooooof wooof wooof wooooof.




Though, in overseeing the pursuit of this whale, Captain Ahab had
Woooof, wf woooooooof wof wooooof wf woof wooof, Wooooof Woof wof

evinced his customary activity, to call it so; yet now that the creature
wooooof wof wooooooof woooooof, wf woof wf wf; wof wof woof wof woooooof

was dead, some vague dissatisfaction, or impatience, or despair, seemed
wof woof, woof wooof wooooooooooooof, wf woooooooof, wf wooooof, woooof

working in him; as if the sight of that dead body reminded him that
wooooof wf wof; wf wf wof wooof wf woof woof woof woooooof wof woof

Moby Dick was yet to be slain; and though a thousand other whales were
Woof Woof wof wof wf wf wooof; wof woooof w woooooof wooof woooof woof

brought to his ship, all that would not one jot advance his grand,
wooooof wf wof woof, wof woof wooof wof wof wof wooooof wof wooof,

monomaniac object. Very soon you would have thought from the sound on
woooooooof woooof. Woof woof wof wooof woof wooooof woof wof wooof wf

the Pequod's decks, that all hands were preparing to cast anchor in
wof Woooof'w wooof, woof wof wooof woof wooooooof wf woof woooof wf

the deep; for heavy chains are being dragged along the deck, and thrust
wof woof; wof wooof woooof wof wooof wooooof wooof wof woof, wof woooof

rattling out of the port-holes. But by those clanking links, the vast
woooooof wof wf wof woof-wooof. Wof wf wooof woooooof wooof, wof woof

corpse itself, not the ship, is to be moored. Tied by the head to the
woooof woooof, wof wof woof, wf wf wf woooof. Woof wf wof woof wf wof

stern, and by the tail to the bows, the whale now lies with its black
wooof, wof wf wof woof wf wof woof, wof wooof wof woof woof wof wooof

hull close to the vessel's and seen through the darkness of the night,
woof wooof wf wof woooof'w wof woof wooooof wof woooooof wf wof wooof,

which obscured the spars and rigging aloft, the two--ship and whale,
wooof woooooof wof wooof wof wooooof wooof, wof wof--woof wof wooof,

seemed yoked together like colossal bullocks, whereof one reclines while
woooof wooof woooooof woof woooooof woooooof, wooooof wof woooooof wooof

the other remains standing.*
wof wooof wooooof woooooof.*







*A little item may as well be related here. The strongest and most
*W woooof woof wof wf woof wf wooooof woof. Wof wooooooof wof woof

reliable hold which the ship has upon the whale when moored alongside,
woooooof woof wooof wof woof wof woof wof wooof woof woooof wooooooof,

is by the flukes or tail; and as from its greater density that part
wf wf wof woooof wf woof; wof wf woof wof wooooof wooooof woof woof

is relatively heavier than any other (excepting the side-fins), its
wf woooooooof wooooof woof wof wooof (wooooooof wof woof-woof), wof

flexibility even in death, causes it to sink low beneath the surface; so
wooooooooof woof wf wooof, woooof wf wf woof wof wooooof wof wooooof; wf

that with the hand you cannot get at it from the boat, in order to
woof woof wof woof wof woooof wof wf wf woof wof woof, wf wooof wf

put the chain round it. But this difficulty is ingeniously overcome: a
wof wof wooof wooof wf. Wof woof woooooooof wf wooooooooof woooooof: w

small, strong line is prepared with a wooden float at its outer end, and
wooof, woooof woof wf woooooof woof w woooof wooof wf wof wooof wof, wof

a weight in its middle, while the other end is secured to the ship. By
w woooof wf wof woooof, wooof wof wooof wof wf wooooof wf wof woof. Wf

adroit management the wooden float is made to rise on the other side
woooof woooooooof wof woooof wooof wf woof wf woof wf wof wooof woof

of the mass, so that now having girdled the whale, the chain is readily
wf wof woof, wf woof wof woooof wooooof wof wooof, wof wooof wf wooooof

made to follow suit; and being slipped along the body, is at last locked
woof wf woooof woof; wof wooof wooooof wooof wof woof, wf wf woof woooof

fast round the smallest part of the tail, at the point of junction with
woof wooof wof woooooof woof wf wof woof, wf wof wooof wf woooooof woof

its broad flukes or lobes.
wof wooof woooof wf wooof.







If moody Ahab was now all quiescence, at least so far as could be known
Wf wooof Woof wof wof wof woooooooof, wf wooof wf wof wf wooof wf wooof

on deck, Stubb, his second mate, flushed with conquest, betrayed an
wf woof, Wooof, wof woooof woof, wooooof woof woooooof, woooooof wf

unusual but still good-natured excitement. Such an unwonted bustle was
wooooof wof wooof woof-wooooof woooooooof. Woof wf woooooof woooof wof

he in that the staid Starbuck, his official superior, quietly resigned
wf wf woof wof wooof Woooooof, wof woooooof woooooof, wooooof woooooof

to him for the time the sole management of affairs. One small, helping
wf wof wof wof woof wof woof woooooooof wf wooooof. Wof wooof, wooooof

cause of all this liveliness in Stubb, was soon made strangely manifest.
wooof wf wof woof woooooooof wf Wooof, wof woof woof wooooooof woooooof.

Stubb was a high liver; he was somewhat intemperately fond of the whale
Wooof wof w woof wooof; wf wof woooooof wooooooooooof woof wf wof wooof

as a flavorish thing to his palate.
wf w wooooooof wooof wf wof woooof.




"A steak, a steak, ere I sleep! You, Daggoo! overboard you go, and cut
"W wooof, w wooof, wof W wooof! Wof, Woooof! wooooooof wof wf, wof wof

me one from his small!"
wf wof woof wof wooof!"




Here be it known, that though these wild fishermen do not, as a general
Woof wf wf wooof, woof woooof wooof woof wooooooof wf wof, wf w wooooof

thing, and according to the great military maxim, make the enemy defray
wooof, wof wooooooof wf wof wooof woooooof wooof, woof wof wooof woooof

the current expenses of the war (at least before realizing the proceeds
wof wooooof woooooof wf wof wof (wf wooof woooof wooooooof wof woooooof

of the voyage), yet now and then you find some of these Nantucketers
wf wof woooof), wof wof wof woof wof woof woof wf wooof Woooooooooof

who have a genuine relish for that particular part of the Sperm Whale
wof woof w wooooof woooof wof woof woooooooof woof wf wof Wooof Wooof

designated by Stubb; comprising the tapering extremity of the body.
woooooooof wf Wooof; woooooooof wof woooooof wooooooof wf wof woof.




About midnight that steak was cut and cooked; and lighted by two
Wooof woooooof woof wooof wof wof wof woooof; wof wooooof wf wof

lanterns of sperm oil, Stubb stoutly stood up to his spermaceti supper
woooooof wf wooof wof, Wooof wooooof wooof wf wf wof woooooooof woooof

at the capstan-head, as if that capstan were a sideboard. Nor was Stubb
wf wof wooooof-woof, wf wf woof wooooof woof w wooooooof. Wof wof Wooof

the only banqueter on whale's flesh that night. Mingling their mumblings
wof woof wooooooof wf wooof'w wooof woof wooof. Woooooof wooof wooooooof

with his own mastications, thousands on thousands of sharks, swarming
woof wof wof woooooooooof, wooooooof wf wooooooof wf woooof, woooooof

round the dead leviathan, smackingly feasted on its fatness. The few
wooof wof woof wooooooof, woooooooof wooooof wf wof wooooof. Wof wof

sleepers below in their bunks were often startled by the sharp slapping
woooooof wooof wf wooof wooof woof wooof woooooof wf wof wooof woooooof

of their tails against the hull, within a few inches of the sleepers'
wf wooof wooof wooooof wof woof, woooof w wof woooof wf wof woooooof'

hearts. Peering over the side you could just see them (as before you
woooof. Wooooof woof wof woof wof wooof woof wof woof (wf woooof wof

heard them) wallowing in the sullen, black waters, and turning over on
wooof woof) wooooooof wf wof woooof, wooof woooof, wof wooooof woof wf

their backs as they scooped out huge globular pieces of the whale of the
wooof wooof wf woof wooooof wof woof woooooof woooof wf wof wooof wf wof

bigness of a human head. This particular feat of the shark seems all
wooooof wf w wooof woof. Woof woooooooof woof wf wof wooof wooof wof

but miraculous. How at such an apparently unassailable surface, they
wof woooooooof. Wof wf woof wf woooooooof woooooooooof wooooof, woof

contrive to gouge out such symmetrical mouthfuls, remains a part of the
woooooof wf wooof wof woof wooooooooof wooooooof, wooooof w woof wf wof

universal problem of all things. The mark they thus leave on the whale,
wooooooof wooooof wf wof woooof. Wof woof woof woof wooof wf wof wooof,

may best be likened to the hollow made by a carpenter in countersinking
wof woof wf wooooof wf wof woooof woof wf w wooooooof wf woooooooooooof

for a screw.
wof w wooof.




Though amid all the smoking horror and diabolism of a sea-fight, sharks
Woooof woof wof wof wooooof woooof wof wooooooof wf w wof-wooof, woooof

will be seen longingly gazing up to the ship's decks, like hungry dogs
woof wf woof wooooooof woooof wf wf wof woof'w wooof, woof woooof woof

round a table where red meat is being carved, ready to bolt down
wooof w wooof wooof wof woof wf wooof woooof, wooof wf woof woof

every killed man that is tossed to them; and though, while the valiant
wooof woooof wof woof wf woooof wf woof; wof woooof, wooof wof wooooof

butchers over the deck-table are thus cannibally carving each other's
woooooof woof wof woof-wooof wof woof woooooooof wooooof woof wooof'w

live meat with carving-knives all gilded and tasselled, the sharks,
woof woof woof wooooof-woooof wof woooof wof wooooooof, wof woooof,

also, with their jewel-hilted mouths, are quarrelsomely carving away
woof, woof wooof wooof-woooof woooof, wof wooooooooooof wooooof woof

under the table at the dead meat; and though, were you to turn the whole
wooof wof wooof wf wof woof woof; wof woooof, woof wof wf woof wof wooof

affair upside down, it would still be pretty much the same thing, that
woooof woooof woof, wf wooof wooof wf woooof woof wof woof wooof, woof

is to say, a shocking sharkish business enough for all parties; and
wf wf wof, w woooooof woooooof woooooof woooof wof wof wooooof; wof

though sharks also are the invariable outriders of all slave ships
woooof woooof woof wof wof woooooooof wooooooof wf wof wooof wooof

crossing the Atlantic, systematically trotting alongside, to be handy in
woooooof wof Woooooof, woooooooooooof woooooof wooooooof, wf wf wooof wf

case a parcel is to be carried anywhere, or a dead slave to be decently
woof w woooof wf wf wf wooooof woooooof, wf w woof wooof wf wf woooooof

buried; and though one or two other like instances might be set down,
woooof; wof woooof wof wf wof wooof woof wooooooof wooof wf wof woof,

touching the set terms, places, and occasions, when sharks do most
woooooof wof wof wooof, woooof, wof wooooooof, woof woooof wf woof

socially congregate, and most hilariously feast; yet is there no
woooooof woooooooof, wof woof wooooooooof wooof; wof wf wooof wf

conceivable time or occasion when you will find them in such countless
wooooooooof woof wf woooooof woof wof woof woof woof wf woof wooooooof

numbers, and in gayer or more jovial spirits, than around a dead sperm
wooooof, wof wf wooof wf woof woooof wooooof, woof woooof w woof wooof

whale, moored by night to a whaleship at sea. If you have never
wooof, woooof wf wooof wf w wooooooof wf wof. Wf wof woof wooof

seen that sight, then suspend your decision about the propriety of
woof woof wooof, woof wooooof woof woooooof wooof wof wooooooof wf

devil-worship, and the expediency of conciliating the devil.
wooof-wooooof, wof wof woooooooof wf woooooooooof wof wooof.




But, as yet, Stubb heeded not the mumblings of the banquet that was
Wof, wf wof, Wooof woooof wof wof wooooooof wf wof wooooof woof wof

going on so nigh him, no more than the sharks heeded the smacking of his
wooof wf wf woof wof, wf woof woof wof woooof woooof wof woooooof wf wof

own epicurean lips.
wof wooooooof woof.




"Cook, cook!--where's that old Fleece?" he cried at length, widening
"Woof, woof!--wooof'w woof wof Woooof?" wf wooof wf woooof, woooooof

his legs still further, as if to form a more secure base for his supper;
wof woof wooof wooooof, wf wf wf woof w woof woooof woof wof wof woooof;

and, at the same time darting his fork into the dish, as if stabbing
wof, wf wof woof woof wooooof wof woof woof wof woof, wf wf woooooof

with his lance; "cook, you cook!--sail this way, cook!"
woof wof wooof; "woof, wof woof!--woof woof wof, woof!"




The old black, not in any very high glee at having been previously
Wof wof wooof, wof wf wof woof woof woof wf woooof woof woooooooof

roused from his warm hammock at a most unseasonable hour, came shambling
woooof woof wof woof wooooof wf w woof woooooooooof woof, woof wooooooof

along from his galley, for, like many old blacks, there was something
wooof woof wof woooof, wof, woof woof wof woooof, wooof wof wooooooof

the matter with his knee-pans, which he did not keep well scoured like
wof woooof woof wof woof-woof, wooof wf wof wof woof woof wooooof woof

his other pans; this old Fleece, as they called him, came shuffling and
wof wooof woof; woof wof Woooof, wf woof woooof wof, woof wooooooof wof

limping along, assisting his step with his tongs, which, after a clumsy
wooooof wooof, wooooooof wof woof woof wof wooof, wooof, wooof w woooof

fashion, were made of straightened iron hoops; this old Ebony floundered
wooooof, woof woof wf woooooooooof woof wooof; woof wof Wooof woooooooof

along, and in obedience to the word of command, came to a dead stop on
wooof, wof wf wooooooof wf wof woof wf wooooof, woof wf w woof woof wf

the opposite side of Stubb's sideboard; when, with both hands folded
wof woooooof woof wf Wooof'w wooooooof; woof, woof woof wooof woooof

before him, and resting on his two-legged cane, he bowed his arched back
woooof wof, wof wooooof wf wof wof-woooof woof, wf wooof wof woooof woof

still further over, at the same time sideways inclining his head, so as
wooof wooooof woof, wf wof woof woof woooooof wooooooof wof woof, wf wf

to bring his best ear into play.
wf wooof wof woof wof woof woof.




"Cook," said Stubb, rapidly lifting a rather reddish morsel to his
"Woof," woof Wooof, wooooof wooooof w woooof wooooof woooof wf wof

mouth, "don't you think this steak is rather overdone? You've been
wooof, "wof'w wof wooof woof wooof wf woooof woooooof? Wof'wf woof

beating this steak too much, cook; it's too tender. Don't I always say
wooooof woof wooof wof woof, woof; wf'w wof woooof. Wof'w W woooof wof

that to be good, a whale-steak must be tough? There are those sharks
woof wf wf woof, w wooof-wooof woof wf wooof? Wooof wof wooof woooof

now over the side, don't you see they prefer it tough and rare? What a
wof woof wof woof, wof'w wof wof woof woooof wf wooof wof woof? Woof w

shindy they are kicking up! Cook, go and talk to 'em; tell 'em they are
woooof woof wof wooooof wf! Woof, wf wof woof wf 'wf; woof 'wf woof wof

welcome to help themselves civilly, and in moderation, but they must
wooooof wf woof woooooooof wooooof, wof wf woooooooof, wof woof woof

keep quiet. Blast me, if I can hear my own voice. Away, cook, and
woof wooof. Wooof wf, wf W wof woof wf wof wooof. Woof, woof, wof

deliver my message. Here, take this lantern," snatching one from his
wooooof wf wooooof. Woof, woof woof wooooof," wooooooof wof woof wof

sideboard; "now then, go and preach to 'em!"
wooooooof; "wof woof, wf wof woooof wf 'wf!"




Sullenly taking the offered lantern, old Fleece limped across the deck
Woooooof woooof wof wooooof wooooof, wof Woooof woooof woooof wof woof

to the bulwarks; and then, with one hand dropping his light low over the
wf wof woooooof; wof woof, woof wof woof woooooof wof wooof wof woof wof

sea, so as to get a good view of his congregation, with the other hand
wof, wf wf wf wof w woof woof wf wof woooooooooof, woof wof wooof woof

he solemnly flourished his tongs, and leaning far over the side in a
wf woooooof woooooooof wof wooof, wof wooooof wof woof wof woof wf w

mumbling voice began addressing the sharks, while Stubb, softly crawling
woooooof wooof wooof woooooooof wof woooof, wooof Wooof, woooof woooooof

behind, overheard all that was said.
woooof, wooooooof wof woof wof woof.




"Fellow-critters: I'se ordered here to say dat you must stop dat dam
"Woooof-woooooof: W'wf wooooof woof wf wof wof wof woof woof wof wof

noise dare. You hear? Stop dat dam smackin' ob de lips! Massa Stubb say
wooof woof. Wof woof? Woof wof wof wooooof' wf wf woof! Wooof Wooof wof

dat you can fill your dam bellies up to de hatchings, but by Gor! you
wof wof wof woof woof wof wooooof wf wf wf wooooooof, wof wf Wof! wof

must stop dat dam racket!"
woof woof wof wof woooof!"




"Cook," here interposed Stubb, accompanying the word with a sudden slap
"Woof," woof woooooooof Wooof, woooooooooof wof woof woof w woooof woof

on the shoulder,--"Cook! why, damn your eyes, you mustn't swear that way
wf wof woooooof,--"Woof! wof, woof woof woof, wof wooof'w wooof woof wof

when you're preaching. That's no way to convert sinners, cook!"
woof wof'wf wooooooof. Woof'w wf wof wf wooooof wooooof, woof!"




"Who dat? Den preach to him yourself," sullenly turning to go.
"Wof wof? Wof woooof wf wof woooooof," woooooof wooooof wf wf.




"No, cook; go on, go on."
"Wf, woof; wf wf, wf wf."




"Well, den, Belubed fellow-critters:"--
"Woof, wof, Wooooof woooof-woooooof:"--




"Right!" exclaimed Stubb, approvingly, "coax 'em to it; try that," and
"Wooof!" wooooooof Wooof, wooooooooof, "woof 'wf wf wf; wof woof," wof

Fleece continued.
Woooof wooooooof.




"Do you is all sharks, and by natur wery woracious, yet I zay to you,
"Wf wof wf wof woooof, wof wf wooof woof wooooooof, wof W wof wf wof,

fellow-critters, dat dat woraciousness--'top dat dam slappin' ob de
woooof-woooooof, wof wof wooooooooooof--'wof wof wof wooooof' wf wf

tail! How you tink to hear, spose you keep up such a dam slappin' and
woof! Wof wof woof wf woof, wooof wof woof wf woof w wof wooooof' wof

bitin' dare?"
wooof' woof?"




"Cook," cried Stubb, collaring him, "I won't have that swearing. Talk to
"Woof," wooof Wooof, wooooooof wof, "W wof'w woof woof woooooof. Woof wf

'em gentlemanly."
'wf wooooooooof."




Once more the sermon proceeded.
Woof woof wof woooof wooooooof.




"Your woraciousness, fellow-critters, I don't blame ye so much for; dat
"Woof wooooooooooof, woooof-woooooof, W wof'w wooof wf wf woof wof; wof

is natur, and can't be helped; but to gobern dat wicked natur, dat is de
wf wooof, wof wof'w wf woooof; wof wf woooof wof woooof wooof, wof wf wf

pint. You is sharks, sartin; but if you gobern de shark in you, why den
woof. Wof wf woooof, woooof; wof wf wof woooof wf wooof wf wof, wof wof

you be angel; for all angel is not'ing more dan de shark well goberned.
wof wf wooof; wof wof wooof wf wof'wof woof wof wf wooof woof woooooof.

Now, look here, bred'ren, just try wonst to be cibil, a helping
Wof, woof woof, woof'wof, woof wof wooof wf wf wooof, w wooooof

yourselbs from dat whale. Don't be tearin' de blubber out your
wooooooof woof wof wooof. Wof'w wf woooof' wf wooooof wof woof

neighbour's mout, I say. Is not one shark dood right as toder to dat
wooooooof'w woof, W wof. Wf wof wof wooof woof wooof wf wooof wf wof

whale? And, by Gor, none on you has de right to dat whale; dat whale
wooof? Wof, wf Wof, woof wf wof wof wf wooof wf wof wooof; wof wooof

belong to some one else. I know some o' you has berry brig mout, brigger
woooof wf woof wof woof. W woof woof w' wof wof wooof woof woof, wooooof

dan oders; but den de brig mouts sometimes has de small bellies; so dat
wof wooof; wof wof wf woof wooof wooooooof wof wf wooof wooooof; wf wof

de brigness of de mout is not to swaller wid, but to bit off de blubber
wf woooooof wf wf woof wf wof wf wooooof wof, wof wf wof wof wf wooooof

for de small fry ob sharks, dat can't get into de scrouge to help
wof wf wooof wof wf woooof, wof wof'w wof woof wf wooooof wf woof

demselves."
wooooooof."




"Well done, old Fleece!" cried Stubb, "that's Christianity; go on."
"Woof woof, wof Woooof!" wooof Wooof, "woof'w Woooooooooof; wf wf."




"No use goin' on; de dam willains will keep a scougin' and slappin' each
"Wf wof woof' wf; wf wof woooooof woof woof w wooooof' wof wooooof' woof

oder, Massa Stubb; dey don't hear one word; no use a-preaching to
woof, Wooof Wooof; wof wof'w woof wof woof; wf wof w-wooooooof wf

such dam g'uttons as you call 'em, till dare bellies is full, and dare
woof wof w'woooof wf wof woof 'wf, woof woof wooooof wf woof, wof woof

bellies is bottomless; and when dey do get 'em full, dey wont hear you
wooooof wf woooooooof; wof woof wof wf wof 'wf woof, wof woof woof wof

den; for den dey sink in the sea, go fast to sleep on de coral, and
wof; wof wof wof woof wf wof wof, wf woof wf wooof wf wf wooof, wof

can't hear noting at all, no more, for eber and eber."
wof'w woof woooof wf wof, wf woof, wof woof wof woof."




"Upon my soul, I am about of the same opinion; so give the benediction,
"Woof wf woof, W wf wooof wf wof woof wooooof; wf woof wof wooooooooof,

Fleece, and I'll away to my supper."
Woooof, wof W'wf woof wf wf woooof."




Upon this, Fleece, holding both hands over the fishy mob, raised his
Woof woof, Woooof, wooooof woof wooof woof wof wooof wof, woooof wof

shrill voice, and cried--
woooof wooof, wof wooof--




"Cussed fellow-critters! Kick up de damndest row as ever you can; fill
"Woooof woooof-woooooof! Woof wf wf woooooof wof wf woof wof wof; woof

your dam bellies 'till dey bust--and den die."
woof wof wooooof 'woof wof woof--wof wof wof."




"Now, cook," said Stubb, resuming his supper at the capstan; "stand
"Wof, woof," woof Wooof, woooooof wof woooof wf wof wooooof; "wooof

just where you stood before, there, over against me, and pay particular
woof wooof wof wooof woooof, wooof, woof wooooof wf, wof wof woooooooof

attention."
wooooooof."




"All 'dention," said Fleece, again stooping over upon his tongs in the
"Wof 'wooooof," woof Woooof, wooof woooooof woof woof wof wooof wf wof

desired position.
wooooof woooooof.




"Well," said Stubb, helping himself freely meanwhile; "I shall now go
"Woof," woof Wooof, wooooof wooooof woooof wooooooof; "W wooof wof wf

back to the subject of this steak. In the first place, how old are you,
woof wf wof wooooof wf woof wooof. Wf wof wooof wooof, wof wof wof wof,

cook?"
woof?"




"What dat do wid de 'teak," said the old black, testily.
"Woof wof wf wof wf 'woof," woof wof wof wooof, wooooof.




"Silence! How old are you, cook?"
"Wooooof! Wof wof wof wof, woof?"




"'Bout ninety, dey say," he gloomily muttered.
"'Woof woooof, wof wof," wf woooooof woooooof.




"And you have lived in this world hard upon one hundred years, cook,
"Wof wof woof wooof wf woof wooof woof woof wof wooooof wooof, woof,

and don't know yet how to cook a whale-steak?" rapidly bolting another
wof wof'w woof wof wof wf woof w wooof-wooof?" wooooof wooooof wooooof

mouthful at the last word, so that morsel seemed a continuation of the
woooooof wf wof woof woof, wf woof woooof woooof w woooooooooof wf wof

question. "Where were you born, cook?"
woooooof. "Wooof woof wof woof, woof?"




"'Hind de hatchway, in ferry-boat, goin' ober de Roanoke."
"'Woof wf woooooof, wf wooof-woof, woof' woof wf Wooooof."




"Born in a ferry-boat! That's queer, too. But I want to know what
"Woof wf w wooof-woof! Woof'w wooof, wof. Wof W woof wf woof woof

country you were born in, cook!"
wooooof wof woof woof wf, woof!"




"Didn't I say de Roanoke country?" he cried sharply.
"Woof'w W wof wf Wooooof wooooof?" wf wooof wooooof.




"No, you didn't, cook; but I'll tell you what I'm coming to, cook.
"Wf, wof woof'w, woof; wof W'wf woof wof woof W'w woooof wf, woof.

You must go home and be born over again; you don't know how to cook a
Wof woof wf woof wof wf woof woof wooof; wof wof'w woof wof wf woof w

whale-steak yet."
wooof-wooof wof."




"Bress my soul, if I cook noder one," he growled, angrily, turning round
"Wooof wf woof, wf W woof wooof wof," wf wooooof, wooooof, wooooof wooof

to depart.
wf woooof.




"Come back here, cook;--here, hand me those tongs;--now take that bit of
"Woof woof woof, woof;--woof, woof wf wooof wooof;--wof woof woof wof wf

steak there, and tell me if you think that steak cooked as it should be?
wooof wooof, wof woof wf wf wof wooof woof wooof woooof wf wf woooof wf?

Take it, I say"--holding the tongs towards him--"take it, and taste it."
Woof wf, W wof"--wooooof wof wooof wooooof wof--"woof wf, wof wooof wf."




Faintly smacking his withered lips over it for a moment, the old negro
Wooooof woooooof wof woooooof woof woof wf wof w woooof, wof wof wooof

muttered, "Best cooked 'teak I eber taste; joosy, berry joosy."
woooooof, "Woof woooof 'woof W woof wooof; wooof, wooof wooof."




"Cook," said Stubb, squaring himself once more; "do you belong to the
"Woof," woof Wooof, woooooof wooooof woof woof; "wf wof woooof wf wof

church?"
woooof?"




"Passed one once in Cape-Down," said the old man sullenly.
"Woooof wof woof wf Woof-Woof," woof wof wof wof woooooof.




"And you have once in your life passed a holy church in Cape-Town, where
"Wof wof woof woof wf woof woof woooof w woof woooof wf Woof-Woof, wooof

you doubtless overheard a holy parson addressing his hearers as his
wof wooooooof wooooooof w woof woooof woooooooof wof wooooof wf wof

beloved fellow-creatures, have you, cook! And yet you come here, and
wooooof woooof-wooooooof, woof wof, woof! Wof wof wof woof woof, wof

tell me such a dreadful lie as you did just now, eh?" said Stubb. "Where
woof wf woof w woooooof wof wf wof wof woof wof, wf?" woof Wooof. "Wooof

do you expect to go to, cook?"
wf wof woooof wf wf wf, woof?"




"Go to bed berry soon," he mumbled, half-turning as he spoke.
"Wf wf wof wooof woof," wf wooooof, woof-wooooof wf wf wooof.




"Avast! heave to! I mean when you die, cook. It's an awful question. Now
"Wooof! wooof wf! W woof woof wof wof, woof. Wf'w wf wooof woooooof. Wof

what's your answer?"
woof'w woof woooof?"




"When dis old brack man dies," said the negro slowly, changing his whole
"Woof wof wof wooof wof woof," woof wof wooof woooof, woooooof wof wooof

air and demeanor, "he hisself won't go nowhere; but some bressed angel
wof wof woooooof, "wf wooooof wof'w wf wooooof; wof woof wooooof wooof

will come and fetch him."
woof woof wof wooof wof."




"Fetch him? How? In a coach and four, as they fetched Elijah? And fetch
"Wooof wof? Wof? Wf w wooof wof woof, wf woof wooooof Woooof? Wof wooof

him where?"
wof wooof?"




"Up dere," said Fleece, holding his tongs straight over his head, and
"Wf woof," woof Woooof, wooooof wof wooof woooooof woof wof woof, wof

keeping it there very solemnly.
wooooof wf wooof woof woooooof.




"So, then, you expect to go up into our main-top, do you, cook, when you
"Wf, woof, wof woooof wf wf wf woof wof woof-wof, wf wof, woof, woof wof

are dead? But don't you know the higher you climb, the colder it gets?
wof woof? Wof wof'w wof woof wof woooof wof wooof, wof woooof wf woof?

Main-top, eh?"
Woof-wof, wf?"




"Didn't say dat t'all," said Fleece, again in the sulks.
"Woof'w wof wof w'wof," woof Woooof, wooof wf wof wooof.




"You said up there, didn't you? and now look yourself, and see where
"Wof woof wf wooof, woof'w wof? wof wof woof woooooof, wof wof wooof

your tongs are pointing. But, perhaps you expect to get into heaven by
woof wooof wof woooooof. Wof, wooooof wof woooof wf wof woof woooof wf

crawling through the lubber's hole, cook; but, no, no, cook, you don't
woooooof wooooof wof woooof'w woof, woof; wof, wf, wf, woof, wof wof'w

get there, except you go the regular way, round by the rigging. It's a
wof wooof, woooof wof wf wof wooooof wof, wooof wf wof wooooof. Wf'w w

ticklish business, but must be done, or else it's no go. But none of
woooooof woooooof, wof woof wf woof, wf woof wf'w wf wf. Wof woof wf

us are in heaven yet. Drop your tongs, cook, and hear my orders. Do ye
wf wof wf woooof wof. Woof woof wooof, woof, wof woof wf woooof. Wf wf

hear? Hold your hat in one hand, and clap t'other a'top of your heart,
woof? Woof woof wof wf wof woof, wof woof w'wooof w'wof wf woof wooof,

when I'm giving my orders, cook. What! that your heart, there?--that's
woof W'w woooof wf woooof, woof. Woof! woof woof wooof, wooof?--woof'w

your gizzard! Aloft! aloft!--that's it--now you have it. Hold it there
woof wooooof! Wooof! wooof!--woof'w wf--wof wof woof wf. Woof wf wooof

now, and pay attention."
wof, wof wof wooooooof."




"All 'dention," said the old black, with both hands placed as desired,
"Wof 'wooooof," woof wof wof wooof, woof woof wooof woooof wf wooooof,

vainly wriggling his grizzled head, as if to get both ears in front at
woooof wooooooof wof woooooof woof, wf wf wf wof woof woof wf wooof wf

one and the same time.
wof wof wof woof woof.




"Well then, cook, you see this whale-steak of yours was so very bad,
"Woof woof, woof, wof wof woof wooof-wooof wf wooof wof wf woof wof,

that I have put it out of sight as soon as possible; you see that, don't
woof W woof wof wf wof wf wooof wf woof wf woooooof; wof wof woof, wof'w

you? Well, for the future, when you cook another whale-steak for my
wof? Woof, wof wof woooof, woof wof woof wooooof wooof-wooof wof wf

private table here, the capstan, I'll tell you what to do so as not to
wooooof wooof woof, wof wooooof, W'wf woof wof woof wf wf wf wf wof wf

spoil it by overdoing. Hold the steak in one hand, and show a live coal
wooof wf wf wooooooof. Woof wof wooof wf wof woof, wof woof w woof woof

to it with the other; that done, dish it; d'ye hear? And now to-morrow,
wf wf woof wof wooof; woof woof, woof wf; w'wf woof? Wof wof wf-woooof,

cook, when we are cutting in the fish, be sure you stand by to get
woof, woof wf wof wooooof wf wof woof, wf woof wof wooof wf wf wof

the tips of his fins; have them put in pickle. As for the ends of the
wof woof wf wof woof; woof woof wof wf woooof. Wf wof wof woof wf wof

flukes, have them soused, cook. There, now ye may go."
woooof, woof woof woooof, woof. Wooof, wof wf wof wf."




But Fleece had hardly got three paces off, when he was recalled.
Wof Woooof wof woooof wof wooof wooof wof, woof wf wof woooooof.




"Cook, give me cutlets for supper to-morrow night in the mid-watch.
"Woof, woof wf wooooof wof woooof wf-woooof wooof wf wof wof-wooof.

D'ye hear? away you sail, then.--Halloa! stop! make a bow before you
W'wf woof? woof wof woof, woof.--Woooof! woof! woof w wof woooof wof

go.--Avast heaving again! Whale-balls for breakfast--don't forget."
wf.--Wooof wooooof wooof! Wooof-wooof wof wooooooof--wof'w woooof."




"Wish, by gor! whale eat him, 'stead of him eat whale. I'm bressed if
"Woof, wf wof! wooof wof wof, 'wooof wf wof wof wooof. W'w wooooof wf

he ain't more of shark dan Massa Shark hisself," muttered the old man,
wf wof'w woof wf wooof wof Wooof Wooof wooooof," woooooof wof wof wof,

limping away; with which sage ejaculation he went to his hammock.
wooooof woof; woof wooof woof wooooooooof wf woof wf wof wooooof.










CHAPTER 65. The Whale as a Dish.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Wooof wf w Woof.







That mortal man should feed upon the creature that feeds his lamp, and,
Woof woooof wof woooof woof woof wof woooooof woof wooof wof woof, wof,

like Stubb, eat him by his own light, as you may say; this seems so
woof Wooof, wof wof wf wof wof wooof, wf wof wof wof; woof wooof wf

outlandish a thing that one must needs go a little into the history and
woooooooof w wooof woof wof woof wooof wf w woooof woof wof wooooof wof

philosophy of it.
woooooooof wf wf.




It is upon record, that three centuries ago the tongue of the Right
Wf wf woof woooof, woof wooof wooooooof wof wof woooof wf wof Wooof

Whale was esteemed a great delicacy in France, and commanded large
Wooof wof woooooof w wooof woooooof wf Woooof, wof wooooooof wooof

prices there. Also, that in Henry VIIIth's time, a certain cook of the
woooof wooof. Woof, woof wf Wooof WOOOof'w woof, w wooooof woof wf wof

court obtained a handsome reward for inventing an admirable sauce to be
wooof woooooof w woooooof woooof wof wooooooof wf wooooooof wooof wf wf

eaten with barbacued porpoises, which, you remember, are a species of
wooof woof wooooooof wooooooof, wooof, wof woooooof, wof w wooooof wf

whale. Porpoises, indeed, are to this day considered fine eating. The
wooof. Wooooooof, woooof, wof wf woof wof woooooooof woof woooof. Wof

meat is made into balls about the size of billiard balls, and being well
woof wf woof woof wooof wooof wof woof wf woooooof wooof, wof wooof woof

seasoned and spiced might be taken for turtle-balls or veal balls.
woooooof wof woooof wooof wf wooof wof woooof-wooof wf woof wooof.

The old monks of Dunfermline were very fond of them. They had a great
Wof wof wooof wf Wooooooooof woof woof woof wf woof. Woof wof w wooof

porpoise grant from the crown.
woooooof wooof woof wof wooof.




The fact is, that among his hunters at least, the whale would by all
Wof woof wf, woof wooof wof wooooof wf wooof, wof wooof wooof wf wof

hands be considered a noble dish, were there not so much of him; but
wooof wf woooooooof w wooof woof, woof wooof wof wf woof wf wof; wof

when you come to sit down before a meat-pie nearly one hundred feet
woof wof woof wf wof woof woooof w woof-wof woooof wof wooooof woof

long, it takes away your appetite. Only the most unprejudiced of men
woof, wf wooof woof woof woooooof. Woof wof woof woooooooooof wf wof

like Stubb, nowadays partake of cooked whales; but the Esquimaux are not
woof Wooof, woooooof wooooof wf woooof woooof; wof wof Wooooooof wof wof

so fastidious. We all know how they live upon whales, and have rare
wf woooooooof. Wf wof woof wof woof woof woof woooof, wof woof woof

old vintages of prime old train oil. Zogranda, one of their most famous
wof woooooof wf wooof wof wooof wof. Woooooof, wof wf wooof woof woooof

doctors, recommends strips of blubber for infants, as being exceedingly
wooooof, woooooooof woooof wf wooooof wof wooooof, wf wooof wooooooooof

juicy and nourishing. And this reminds me that certain Englishmen, who
wooof wof woooooooof. Wof woof wooooof wf woof wooooof Woooooooof, wof

long ago were accidentally left in Greenland by a whaling vessel--that
woof wof woof woooooooooof woof wf Wooooooof wf w wooooof woooof--woof

these men actually lived for several months on the mouldy scraps of
wooof wof woooooof wooof wof wooooof woooof wf wof woooof woooof wf

whales which had been left ashore after trying out the blubber. Among
woooof wooof wof woof woof woooof wooof woooof wof wof wooooof. Wooof

the Dutch whalemen these scraps are called "fritters"; which, indeed,
wof Wooof woooooof wooof woooof wof woooof "woooooof"; wooof, woooof,

they greatly resemble, being brown and crisp, and smelling something
woof wooooof woooooof, wooof wooof wof wooof, wof woooooof wooooooof

like old Amsterdam housewives' dough-nuts or oly-cooks, when fresh. They
woof wof Wooooooof woooooooof' wooof-woof wf wof-wooof, woof wooof. Woof

have such an eatable look that the most self-denying stranger can hardly
woof woof wf wooooof woof woof wof woof woof-wooooof woooooof wof woooof

keep his hands off.
woof wof wooof wof.




But what further depreciates the whale as a civilized dish, is his
Wof woof wooooof wooooooooof wof wooof wf w wooooooof woof, wf wof

exceeding richness. He is the great prize ox of the sea, too fat to be
wooooooof woooooof. Wf wf wof wooof wooof wf wf wof wof, wof wof wf wf

delicately good. Look at his hump, which would be as fine eating as
woooooooof woof. Woof wf wof woof, wooof wooof wf wf woof woooof wf

the buffalo's (which is esteemed a rare dish), were it not such a solid
wof wooooof'w (wooof wf woooooof w woof woof), woof wf wof woof w wooof

pyramid of fat. But the spermaceti itself, how bland and creamy that
wooooof wf wof. Wof wof woooooooof woooof, wof wooof wof woooof woof

is; like the transparent, half-jellied, white meat of a cocoanut in the
wf; woof wof wooooooooof, woof-wooooof, wooof woof wf w woooooof wf wof

third month of its growth, yet far too rich to supply a substitute for
wooof wooof wf wof woooof, wof wof wof woof wf woooof w woooooooof wof

butter. Nevertheless, many whalemen have a method of absorbing it into
woooof. Woooooooooof, woof woooooof woof w woooof wf wooooooof wf woof

some other substance, and then partaking of it. In the long try
woof wooof wooooooof, wof woof wooooooof wf wf. Wf wof woof wof

watches of the night it is a common thing for the seamen to dip their
wooooof wf wof wooof wf wf w woooof wooof wof wof woooof wf wof wooof

ship-biscuit into the huge oil-pots and let them fry there awhile. Many
woof-wooooof woof wof woof wof-woof wof wof woof wof wooof woooof. Woof

a good supper have I thus made.
w woof woooof woof W woof woof.




In the case of a small Sperm Whale the brains are accounted a fine dish.
Wf wof woof wf w wooof Wooof Wooof wof woooof wof wooooooof w woof woof.

The casket of the skull is broken into with an axe, and the two plump,
Wof woooof wf wof wooof wf woooof woof woof wf wof, wof wof wof wooof,

whitish lobes being withdrawn (precisely resembling two large puddings),
wooooof wooof wooof wooooooof (wooooooof woooooooof wof wooof woooooof),

they are then mixed with flour, and cooked into a most delectable mess,
woof wof woof wooof woof wooof, wof woooof woof w woof woooooooof woof,

in flavor somewhat resembling calves' head, which is quite a dish among
wf woooof woooooof woooooooof woooof' woof, wooof wf wooof w woof wooof

some epicures; and every one knows that some young bucks among the
woof woooooof; wof wooof wof wooof woof woof wooof wooof wooof wof

epicures, by continually dining upon calves' brains, by and by get to
woooooof, wf wooooooooof woooof woof woooof' woooof, wf wof wf wof wf

have a little brains of their own, so as to be able to tell a
woof w woooof woooof wf wooof wof, wf wf wf wf woof wf woof w

calf's head from their own heads; which, indeed, requires uncommon
woof'w woof woof wooof wof wooof; wooof, woooof, woooooof woooooof

discrimination. And that is the reason why a young buck with an
woooooooooooof. Wof woof wf wof woooof wof w wooof woof woof wf

intelligent looking calf's head before him, is somehow one of the
wooooooooof wooooof woof'w woof woooof wof, wf wooooof wof wf wof

saddest sights you can see. The head looks a sort of reproachfully at
wooooof woooof wof wof wof. Wof woof wooof w woof wf wooooooooooof wf

him, with an "Et tu Brute!" expression.
wof, woof wf "Wf wf Wooof!" woooooooof.




It is not, perhaps, entirely because the whale is so excessively
Wf wf wof, wooooof, woooooof wooooof wof wooof wf wf wooooooooof

unctuous that landsmen seem to regard the eating of him with abhorrence;
woooooof woof woooooof woof wf woooof wof woooof wf wof woof woooooooof;

that appears to result, in some way, from the consideration before
woof wooooof wf woooof, wf woof wof, woof wof wooooooooooof woooof

mentioned: i.e. that a man should eat a newly murdered thing of the sea,
wooooooof: w.w. woof w wof woooof wof w wooof woooooof wooof wf wof wof,

and eat it too by its own light. But no doubt the first man that ever
wof wof wf wof wf wof wof wooof. Wof wf wooof wof wooof wof woof woof

murdered an ox was regarded as a murderer; perhaps he was hung; and if
woooooof wf wf wof woooooof wf w woooooof; wooooof wf wof woof; wof wf

he had been put on his trial by oxen, he certainly would have been; and
wf wof woof wof wf wof wooof wf woof, wf wooooooof wooof woof woof; wof

he certainly deserved it if any murderer does. Go to the meat-market
wf wooooooof woooooof wf wf wof woooooof woof. Wf wf wof woof-woooof

of a Saturday night and see the crowds of live bipeds staring up at the
wf w Woooooof wooof wof wof wof woooof wf woof woooof wooooof wf wf wof

long rows of dead quadrupeds. Does not that sight take a tooth out of
woof woof wf woof woooooooof. Woof wof woof wooof woof w wooof wof wf

the cannibal's jaw? Cannibals? who is not a cannibal? I tell you it will
wof woooooof'w wof? Wooooooof? wof wf wof w woooooof? W woof wof wf woof

be more tolerable for the Fejee that salted down a lean missionary in
wf woof wooooooof wof wof Wooof woof woooof woof w woof woooooooof wf

his cellar against a coming famine; it will be more tolerable for that
wof woooof wooooof w woooof woooof; wf woof wf woof wooooooof wof woof

provident Fejee, I say, in the day of judgment, than for thee, civilized
wooooooof Wooof, W wof, wf wof wof wf woooooof, woof wof woof, wooooooof

and enlightened gourmand, who nailest geese to the ground and feastest
wof wooooooooof woooooof, wof wooooof wooof wf wof woooof wof woooooof

on their bloated livers in thy pate-de-foie-gras.
wf wooof wooooof woooof wf wof woof-wf-woof-woof.




But Stubb, he eats the whale by its own light, does he? and that is
Wof Wooof, wf woof wof wooof wf wof wof wooof, woof wf? wof woof wf

adding insult to injury, is it? Look at your knife-handle, there, my
woooof woooof wf woooof, wf wf? Woof wf woof wooof-woooof, wooof, wf

civilized and enlightened gourmand dining off that roast beef, what is
wooooooof wof wooooooooof woooooof woooof wof woof wooof woof, woof wf

that handle made of?--what but the bones of the brother of the very ox
woof woooof woof wf?--woof wof wof wooof wf wof wooooof wf wof woof wf

you are eating? And what do you pick your teeth with, after devouring
wof wof woooof? Wof woof wf wof woof woof wooof woof, wooof wooooooof

that fat goose? With a feather of the same fowl. And with what quill did
woof wof wooof? Woof w wooooof wf wof woof woof. Wof woof woof wooof wof

the Secretary of the Society for the Suppression of Cruelty to Ganders
wof Wooooooof wf wof Wooooof wof wof Wooooooooof wf Wooooof wf Wooooof

formally indite his circulars? It is only within the last month or two
woooooof woooof wof wooooooof? Wf wf woof woooof wof woof wooof wf wof

that that society passed a resolution to patronise nothing but steel
woof woof wooooof woooof w woooooooof wf wooooooof wooooof wof wooof

pens.
woof.










CHAPTER 66. The Shark Massacre.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Wooof Woooooof.







When in the Southern Fishery, a captured Sperm Whale, after long and
Woof wf wof Woooooof Wooooof, w woooooof Wooof Wooof, wooof woof wof

weary toil, is brought alongside late at night, it is not, as a general
wooof woof, wf wooooof wooooooof woof wf wooof, wf wf wof, wf w wooooof

thing at least, customary to proceed at once to the business of cutting
wooof wf wooof, wooooooof wf wooooof wf woof wf wof woooooof wf wooooof

him in. For that business is an exceedingly laborious one; is not very
wof wf. Wof woof woooooof wf wf wooooooooof wooooooof wof; wf wof woof

soon completed; and requires all hands to set about it. Therefore, the
woof wooooooof; wof woooooof wof wooof wf wof wooof wf. Wooooooof, wof

common usage is to take in all sail; lash the helm a'lee; and then send
woooof wooof wf wf woof wf wof woof; woof wof woof w'wof; wof woof woof

every one below to his hammock till daylight, with the reservation that,
wooof wof wooof wf wof wooooof woof woooooof, woof wof wooooooooof woof,

until that time, anchor-watches shall be kept; that is, two and two for
wooof woof woof, woooof-wooooof wooof wf woof; woof wf, wof wof wof wof

an hour, each couple, the crew in rotation shall mount the deck to see
wf woof, woof woooof, wof woof wf woooooof wooof wooof wof woof wf wof

that all goes well.
woof wof woof woof.




But sometimes, especially upon the Line in the Pacific, this plan will
Wof wooooooof, woooooooof woof wof Woof wf wof Wooooof, woof woof woof

not answer at all; because such incalculable hosts of sharks gather
wof woooof wf wof; wooooof woof woooooooooof wooof wf woooof woooof

round the moored carcase, that were he left so for six hours, say, on a
wooof wof woooof wooooof, woof woof wf woof wf wof wof wooof, wof, wf w

stretch, little more than the skeleton would be visible by morning.
wooooof, woooof woof woof wof woooooof wooof wf wooooof wf wooooof.

In most other parts of the ocean, however, where these fish do not so
Wf woof wooof wooof wf wof wooof, wooooof, wooof wooof woof wf wof wf

largely abound, their wondrous voracity can be at times considerably
wooooof woooof, wooof woooooof woooooof wof wf wf wooof woooooooooof

diminished, by vigorously stirring them up with sharp whaling-spades,
woooooooof, wf woooooooof woooooof woof wf woof wooof wooooof-woooof,

a procedure notwithstanding, which, in some instances, only seems to
w wooooooof wooooooooooooof, wooof, wf woof wooooooof, woof wooof wf

tickle them into still greater activity. But it was not thus in the
woooof woof woof wooof wooooof woooooof. Wof wf wof wof woof wf wof

present case with the Pequod's sharks; though, to be sure, any man
wooooof woof woof wof Woooof'w woooof; woooof, wf wf woof, wof wof

unaccustomed to such sights, to have looked over her side that night,
woooooooooof wf woof woooof, wf woof woooof woof wof woof woof wooof,

would have almost thought the whole round sea was one huge cheese, and
wooof woof woooof wooooof wof wooof wooof wof wof wof woof woooof, wof

those sharks the maggots in it.
wooof woooof wof wooooof wf wf.




Nevertheless, upon Stubb setting the anchor-watch after his supper was
Woooooooooof, woof Wooof wooooof wof woooof-wooof wooof wof woooof wof

concluded; and when, accordingly, Queequeg and a forecastle seaman
wooooooof; wof woof, wooooooooof, Woooooof wof w woooooooof woooof

came on deck, no small excitement was created among the sharks; for
woof wf woof, wf wooof woooooooof wof wooooof wooof wof woooof; wof

immediately suspending the cutting stages over the side, and lowering
wooooooooof woooooooof wof wooooof woooof woof wof woof, wof woooooof

three lanterns, so that they cast long gleams of light over the turbid
wooof woooooof, wf woof woof woof woof woooof wf wooof woof wof woooof

sea, these two mariners, darting their long whaling-spades, kept up an
wof, wooof wof woooooof, wooooof wooof woof wooooof-woooof, woof wf wf

incessant murdering of the sharks,* by striking the keen steel deep
wooooooof wooooooof wf wof woooof,* wf woooooof wof woof wooof woof

into their skulls, seemingly their only vital part. But in the foamy
woof wooof woooof, wooooooof wooof woof wooof woof. Wof wf wof wooof

confusion of their mixed and struggling hosts, the marksmen could not
wooooooof wf wooof wooof wof woooooooof wooof, wof woooooof wooof wof

always hit their mark; and this brought about new revelations of the
woooof wof wooof woof; wof woof wooooof wooof wof wooooooooof wf wof

incredible ferocity of the foe. They viciously snapped, not only at each
woooooooof woooooof wf wof wof. Woof wooooooof wooooof, wof woof wf woof

other's disembowelments, but like flexible bows, bent round, and bit
wooof'w wooooooooooooof, wof woof woooooof woof, woof wooof, wof wof

their own; till those entrails seemed swallowed over and over again by
wooof wof; woof wooof woooooof woooof wooooooof woof wof woof wooof wf

the same mouth, to be oppositely voided by the gaping wound. Nor was
wof woof wooof, wf wf woooooooof woooof wf wof woooof wooof. Wof wof

this all. It was unsafe to meddle with the corpses and ghosts of these
woof wof. Wf wof woooof wf woooof woof wof wooooof wof woooof wf wooof

creatures. A sort of generic or Pantheistic vitality seemed to lurk in
wooooooof. W woof wf wooooof wf Wooooooooof woooooof woooof wf woof wf

their very joints and bones, after what might be called the individual
wooof woof woooof wof wooof, wooof woof wooof wf woooof wof woooooooof

life had departed. Killed and hoisted on deck for the sake of his skin,
woof wof woooooof. Woooof wof wooooof wf woof wof wof woof wf wof woof,

one of these sharks almost took poor Queequeg's hand off, when he tried
wof wf wooof woooof woooof woof woof Woooooof'w woof wof, woof wf wooof

to shut down the dead lid of his murderous jaw.
wf woof woof wof woof wof wf wof wooooooof wof.







*The whaling-spade used for cutting-in is made of the very best steel;
*Wof wooooof-wooof woof wof wooooof-wf wf woof wf wof woof woof wooof;

is about the bigness of a man's spread hand; and in general shape,
wf wooof wof wooooof wf w wof'w woooof woof; wof wf wooooof wooof,

corresponds to the garden implement after which it is named; only its
wooooooooof wf wof woooof wooooooof wooof wooof wf wf wooof; woof wof

sides are perfectly flat, and its upper end considerably narrower than
wooof wof wooooooof woof, wof wof wooof wof woooooooooof woooooof woof

the lower. This weapon is always kept as sharp as possible; and when
wof wooof. Woof woooof wf woooof woof wf wooof wf woooooof; wof woof

being used is occasionally honed, just like a razor. In its socket, a
wooof woof wf woooooooooof wooof, woof woof w wooof. Wf wof woooof, w

stiff pole, from twenty to thirty feet long, is inserted for a handle.
wooof woof, woof woooof wf woooof woof woof, wf woooooof wof w woooof.







"Queequeg no care what god made him shark," said the savage, agonizingly
"Woooooof wf woof woof wof woof wof wooof," woof wof woooof, wooooooooof

lifting his hand up and down; "wedder Fejee god or Nantucket god; but de
wooooof wof woof wf wof woof; "woooof Wooof wof wf Wooooooof wof; wof wf

god wat made shark must be one dam Ingin."
wof wof woof wooof woof wf wof wof Wooof."










CHAPTER 67. Cutting In.
WOOOOOF wf. Wooooof Wf.







It was a Saturday night, and such a Sabbath as followed! Ex officio
Wf wof w Woooooof wooof, wof woof w Wooooof wf woooooof! Wf wooooof

professors of Sabbath breaking are all whalemen. The ivory Pequod was
woooooooof wf Wooooof woooooof wof wof woooooof. Wof wooof Woooof wof

turned into what seemed a shamble; every sailor a butcher. You would
woooof woof woof woooof w wooooof; wooof woooof w wooooof. Wof wooof

have thought we were offering up ten thousand red oxen to the sea gods.
woof wooooof wf woof woooooof wf wof woooooof wof woof wf wof wof woof.




In the first place, the enormous cutting tackles, among other ponderous
Wf wof wooof wooof, wof woooooof wooooof wooooof, wooof wooof wooooooof

things comprising a cluster of blocks generally painted green, and which
woooof woooooooof w wooooof wf woooof wooooooof wooooof wooof, wof wooof

no single man can possibly lift--this vast bunch of grapes was swayed up
wf woooof wof wof woooooof woof--woof woof wooof wf woooof wof woooof wf

to the main-top and firmly lashed to the lower mast-head, the strongest
wf wof woof-wof wof woooof woooof wf wof wooof woof-woof, wof wooooooof

point anywhere above a ship's deck. The end of the hawser-like rope
wooof woooooof wooof w woof'w woof. Wof wof wf wof woooof-woof woof

winding through these intricacies, was then conducted to the windlass,
wooooof wooooof wooof wooooooooof, wof woof wooooooof wf wof woooooof,

and the huge lower block of the tackles was swung over the whale; to
wof wof woof wooof wooof wf wof wooooof wof wooof woof wof wooof; wf

this block the great blubber hook, weighing some one hundred pounds, was
woof wooof wof wooof wooooof woof, woooooof woof wof wooooof woooof, wof

attached. And now suspended in stages over the side, Starbuck and Stubb,
woooooof. Wof wof wooooooof wf woooof woof wof woof, Woooooof wof Wooof,

the mates, armed with their long spades, began cutting a hole in the
wof wooof, wooof woof wooof woof woooof, wooof wooooof w woof wf wof

body for the insertion of the hook just above the nearest of the two
woof wof wof wooooooof wf wof woof woof wooof wof wooooof wf wof wof

side-fins. This done, a broad, semicircular line is cut round the hole,
woof-woof. Woof woof, w wooof, woooooooooof woof wf wof wooof wof woof,

the hook is inserted, and the main body of the crew striking up a wild
wof woof wf woooooof, wof wof woof woof wf wof woof woooooof wf w woof

chorus, now commence heaving in one dense crowd at the windlass. When
woooof, wof woooooof wooooof wf wof wooof wooof wf wof woooooof. Woof

instantly, the entire ship careens over on her side; every bolt in
wooooooof, wof woooof woof wooooof woof wf wof woof; wooof woof wf

her starts like the nail-heads of an old house in frosty weather; she
wof woooof woof wof woof-wooof wf wf wof wooof wf woooof wooooof; wof

trembles, quivers, and nods her frighted mast-heads to the sky. More
woooooof, wooooof, wof woof wof woooooof woof-wooof wf wof wof. Woof

and more she leans over to the whale, while every gasping heave of the
wof woof wof wooof woof wf wof wooof, wooof wooof wooooof wooof wf wof

windlass is answered by a helping heave from the billows; till at last,
woooooof wf woooooof wf w wooooof wooof woof wof wooooof; woof wf woof,

a swift, startling snap is heard; with a great swash the ship rolls
w wooof, wooooooof woof wf wooof; woof w wooof wooof wof woof wooof

upwards and backwards from the whale, and the triumphant tackle rises
wooooof wof wooooooof woof wof wooof, wof wof woooooooof woooof wooof

into sight dragging after it the disengaged semicircular end of the
woof wooof woooooof wooof wf wof woooooooof woooooooooof wof wf wof

first strip of blubber. Now as the blubber envelopes the whale precisely
wooof wooof wf wooooof. Wof wf wof wooooof wooooooof wof wooof wooooooof

as the rind does an orange, so is it stripped off from the body
wf wof woof woof wf woooof, wf wf wf woooooof wof woof wof woof

precisely as an orange is sometimes stripped by spiralizing it. For the
wooooooof wf wf woooof wf wooooooof woooooof wf wooooooooof wf. Wof wof

strain constantly kept up by the windlass continually keeps the whale
woooof woooooooof woof wf wf wof woooooof wooooooooof wooof wof wooof

rolling over and over in the water, and as the blubber in one strip
wooooof woof wof woof wf wof wooof, wof wf wof wooooof wf wof wooof

uniformly peels off along the line called the "scarf," simultaneously
wooooooof wooof wof wooof wof woof woooof wof "wooof," woooooooooooof

cut by the spades of Starbuck and Stubb, the mates; and just as fast as
wof wf wof woooof wf Woooooof wof Wooof, wof wooof; wof woof wf woof wf

it is thus peeled off, and indeed by that very act itself, it is all the
wf wf woof woooof wof, wof woooof wf woof woof wof woooof, wf wf wof wof

time being hoisted higher and higher aloft till its upper end grazes the
woof wooof wooooof woooof wof woooof wooof woof wof wooof wof woooof wof

main-top; the men at the windlass then cease heaving, and for a moment
woof-wof; wof wof wf wof woooooof woof wooof wooooof, wof wof w woooof

or two the prodigious blood-dripping mass sways to and fro as if let
wf wof wof woooooooof wooof-woooooof woof wooof wf wof wof wf wf wof

down from the sky, and every one present must take good heed to dodge
woof woof wof wof, wof wooof wof wooooof woof woof woof woof wf wooof

it when it swings, else it may box his ears and pitch him headlong
wf woof wf woooof, woof wf wof wof wof woof wof wooof wof woooooof

overboard.
wooooooof.




One of the attending harpooneers now advances with a long, keen weapon
Wof wf wof wooooooof wooooooooof wof woooooof woof w woof, woof woooof

called a boarding-sword, and watching his chance he dexterously slices
woooof w woooooof-wooof, wof woooooof wof woooof wf wooooooooof woooof

out a considerable hole in the lower part of the swaying mass. Into this
wof w woooooooooof woof wf wof wooof woof wf wof wooooof woof. Woof woof

hole, the end of the second alternating great tackle is then hooked
woof, wof wof wf wof woooof wooooooooof wooof woooof wf woof woooof

so as to retain a hold upon the blubber, in order to prepare for what
wf wf wf woooof w woof woof wof wooooof, wf wooof wf wooooof wof woof

follows. Whereupon, this accomplished swordsman, warning all hands to
wooooof. Wooooooof, woof woooooooooof wooooooof, wooooof wof wooof wf

stand off, once more makes a scientific dash at the mass, and with a few
wooof wof, woof woof wooof w woooooooof woof wf wof woof, wof woof w wof

sidelong, desperate, lunging slicings, severs it completely in twain;
woooooof, wooooooof, wooooof woooooof, woooof wf woooooooof wf wooof;

so that while the short lower part is still fast, the long upper strip,
wf woof wooof wof wooof wooof woof wf wooof woof, wof woof wooof wooof,

called a blanket-piece, swings clear, and is all ready for lowering.
woooof w wooooof-wooof, woooof wooof, wof wf wof wooof wof woooooof.

The heavers forward now resume their song, and while the one tackle is
Wof wooooof wooooof wof woooof wooof woof, wof wooof wof wof woooof wf

peeling and hoisting a second strip from the whale, the other is slowly
wooooof wof woooooof w woooof wooof woof wof wooof, wof wooof wf woooof

slackened away, and down goes the first strip through the main hatchway
wooooooof woof, wof woof woof wof wooof wooof wooooof wof woof woooooof

right beneath, into an unfurnished parlor called the blubber-room. Into
wooof wooooof, woof wf wooooooooof woooof woooof wof wooooof-woof. Woof

this twilight apartment sundry nimble hands keep coiling away the long
woof woooooof wooooooof woooof woooof wooof woof wooooof woof wof woof

blanket-piece as if it were a great live mass of plaited serpents.
wooooof-wooof wf wf wf woof w wooof woof woof wf wooooof woooooof.

And thus the work proceeds; the two tackles hoisting and lowering
Wof woof wof woof woooooof; wof wof wooooof woooooof wof woooooof

simultaneously; both whale and windlass heaving, the heavers singing,
woooooooooooof; woof wooof wof woooooof wooooof, wof wooooof wooooof,

the blubber-room gentlemen coiling, the mates scarfing, the ship
wof wooooof-woof wooooooof wooooof, wof wooof woooooof, wof woof

straining, and all hands swearing occasionally, by way of assuaging the
wooooooof, wof wof wooof woooooof woooooooooof, wf wof wf wooooooof wof

general friction.
wooooof woooooof.










CHAPTER 68. The Blanket.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Wooooof.







I have given no small attention to that not unvexed subject, the skin of
W woof wooof wf wooof wooooooof wf woof wof wooooof wooooof, wof woof wf

the whale. I have had controversies about it with experienced whalemen
wof wooof. W woof wof wooooooooooof wooof wf woof wooooooooof woooooof

afloat, and learned naturalists ashore. My original opinion remains
woooof, wof wooooof wooooooooof woooof. Wf woooooof wooooof wooooof

unchanged; but it is only an opinion.
wooooooof; wof wf wf woof wf wooooof.




The question is, what and where is the skin of the whale? Already you
Wof woooooof wf, woof wof wooof wf wof woof wf wof wooof? Wooooof wof

know what his blubber is. That blubber is something of the consistence
woof woof wof wooooof wf. Woof wooooof wf wooooooof wf wof wooooooooof

of firm, close-grained beef, but tougher, more elastic and compact, and
wf woof, wooof-wooooof woof, wof wooooof, woof wooooof wof wooooof, wof

ranges from eight or ten to twelve and fifteen inches in thickness.
woooof woof wooof wf wof wf woooof wof wooooof woooof wf wooooooof.




Now, however preposterous it may at first seem to talk of any creature's
Wof, wooooof woooooooooof wf wof wf wooof woof wf woof wf wof woooooof'w

skin as being of that sort of consistence and thickness, yet in point
woof wf wooof wf woof woof wf wooooooooof wof wooooooof, wof wf wooof

of fact these are no arguments against such a presumption; because you
wf woof wooof wof wf wooooooof wooooof woof w wooooooooof; wooooof wof

cannot raise any other dense enveloping layer from the whale's body but
woooof wooof wof wooof wooof woooooooof wooof woof wof wooof'w woof wof

that same blubber; and the outermost enveloping layer of any animal, if
woof woof wooooof; wof wof wooooooof woooooooof wooof wf wof woooof, wf

reasonably dense, what can that be but the skin? True, from the unmarred
woooooooof wooof, woof wof woof wf wof wof woof? Woof, woof wof woooooof

dead body of the whale, you may scrape off with your hand an infinitely
woof woof wf wof wooof, wof wof woooof wof woof woof woof wf woooooooof

thin, transparent substance, somewhat resembling the thinnest shreds
woof, wooooooooof wooooooof, woooooof woooooooof wof woooooof woooof

of isinglass, only it is almost as flexible and soft as satin; that is,
wf wooooooof, woof wf wf woooof wf woooooof wof woof wf wooof; woof wf,

previous to being dried, when it not only contracts and thickens, but
woooooof wf wooof wooof, woof wf wof woof wooooooof wof woooooof, wof

becomes rather hard and brittle. I have several such dried bits, which
wooooof woooof woof wof wooooof. W woof wooooof woof wooof woof, wooof

I use for marks in my whale-books. It is transparent, as I said before;
W wof wof wooof wf wf wooof-wooof. Wf wf wooooooooof, wf W woof woooof;

and being laid upon the printed page, I have sometimes pleased myself
wof wooof woof woof wof wooooof woof, W woof wooooooof wooooof woooof

with fancying it exerted a magnifying influence. At any rate, it is
woof woooooof wf wooooof w woooooooof wooooooof. Wf wof woof, wf wf

pleasant to read about whales through their own spectacles, as you may
woooooof wf woof wooof woooof wooooof wooof wof woooooooof, wf wof wof

say. But what I am driving at here is this. That same infinitely thin,
wof. Wof woof W wf wooooof wf woof wf woof. Woof woof woooooooof woof,

isinglass substance, which, I admit, invests the entire body of the
wooooooof wooooooof, wooof, W wooof, wooooof wof woooof woof wf wof

whale, is not so much to be regarded as the skin of the creature, as
wooof, wf wof wf woof wf wf woooooof wf wof woof wf wof woooooof, wf

the skin of the skin, so to speak; for it were simply ridiculous to say,
wof woof wf wof woof, wf wf wooof; wof wf woof woooof woooooooof wf wof,

that the proper skin of the tremendous whale is thinner and more tender
woof wof woooof woof wf wof woooooooof wooof wf wooooof wof woof woooof

than the skin of a new-born child. But no more of this.
woof wof woof wf w wof-woof wooof. Wof wf woof wf woof.




Assuming the blubber to be the skin of the whale; then, when this skin,
Woooooof wof wooooof wf wf wof woof wf wof wooof; woof, woof woof woof,

as in the case of a very large Sperm Whale, will yield the bulk of one
wf wf wof woof wf w woof wooof Wooof Wooof, woof wooof wof woof wf wof

hundred barrels of oil; and, when it is considered that, in quantity, or
wooooof wooooof wf wof; wof, woof wf wf woooooooof woof, wf woooooof, wf

rather weight, that oil, in its expressed state, is only three fourths,
woooof woooof, woof wof, wf wof wooooooof wooof, wf woof wooof wooooof,

and not the entire substance of the coat; some idea may hence be had
wof wof wof woooof wooooooof wf wof woof; woof woof wof wooof wf wof

of the enormousness of that animated mass, a mere part of whose mere
wf wof woooooooooof wf woof woooooof woof, w woof woof wf wooof woof

integument yields such a lake of liquid as that. Reckoning ten barrels
woooooooof woooof woof w woof wf woooof wf woof. Wooooooof wof wooooof

to the ton, you have ten tons for the net weight of only three quarters
wf wof wof, wof woof wof woof wof wof wof woooof wf woof wooof woooooof

of the stuff of the whale's skin.
wf wof wooof wf wof wooof'w woof.




In life, the visible surface of the Sperm Whale is not the least among
Wf woof, wof wooooof wooooof wf wof Wooof Wooof wf wof wof wooof wooof

the many marvels he presents. Almost invariably it is all over obliquely
wof woof wooooof wf woooooof. Woooof woooooooof wf wf wof woof wooooooof

crossed and re-crossed with numberless straight marks in thick array,
wooooof wof wf-wooooof woof woooooooof woooooof wooof wf wooof wooof,

something like those in the finest Italian line engravings. But these
wooooooof woof wooof wf wof woooof Wooooof woof woooooooof. Wof wooof

marks do not seem to be impressed upon the isinglass substance above
wooof wf wof woof wf wf wooooooof woof wof wooooooof wooooooof wooof

mentioned, but seem to be seen through it, as if they were engraved
wooooooof, wof woof wf wf woof wooooof wf, wf wf woof woof woooooof

upon the body itself. Nor is this all. In some instances, to the quick,
woof wof woof woooof. Wof wf woof wof. Wf woof wooooooof, wf wof wooof,

observant eye, those linear marks, as in a veritable engraving, but
wooooooof wof, wooof woooof wooof, wf wf w wooooooof wooooooof, wof

afford the ground for far other delineations. These are hieroglyphical;
woooof wof woooof wof wof wooof woooooooooof. Wooof wof woooooooooooof;

that is, if you call those mysterious cyphers on the walls of pyramids
woof wf, wf wof woof wooof woooooooof wooooof wf wof wooof wf woooooof

hieroglyphics, then that is the proper word to use in the present
wooooooooooof, woof woof wf wof woooof woof wf wof wf wof wooooof

connexion. By my retentive memory of the hieroglyphics upon one Sperm
wooooooof. Wf wf wooooooof woooof wf wof wooooooooooof woof wof Wooof

Whale in particular, I was much struck with a plate representing the old
Wooof wf woooooooof, W wof woof woooof woof w wooof woooooooooof wof wof

Indian characters chiselled on the famous hieroglyphic palisades on
Woooof woooooooof wooooooof wf wof woooof woooooooooof wooooooof wf

the banks of the Upper Mississippi. Like those mystic rocks, too, the
wof wooof wf wof Wooof Wooooooooof. Woof wooof woooof wooof, wof, wof

mystic-marked whale remains undecipherable. This allusion to the Indian
woooof-woooof wooof wooooof woooooooooooof. Woof woooooof wf wof Woooof

rocks reminds me of another thing. Besides all the other phenomena which
wooof wooooof wf wf wooooof wooof. Wooooof wof wof wooof wooooooof wooof

the exterior of the Sperm Whale presents, he not seldom displays the
wof woooooof wf wof Wooof Wooof woooooof, wf wof woooof woooooof wof

back, and more especially his flanks, effaced in great part of the
woof, wof woof woooooooof wof woooof, wooooof wf wooof woof wf wof

regular linear appearance, by reason of numerous rude scratches,
wooooof woooof woooooooof, wf woooof wf woooooof woof wooooooof,

altogether of an irregular, random aspect. I should say that those New
woooooooof wf wf wooooooof, woooof woooof. W woooof wof woof wooof Wof

England rocks on the sea-coast, which Agassiz imagines to bear the marks
Wooooof wooof wf wof wof-wooof, wooof Wooooof woooooof wf woof wof wooof

of violent scraping contact with vast floating icebergs--I should say,
wf wooooof woooooof wooooof woof woof woooooof woooooof--W woooof wof,

that those rocks must not a little resemble the Sperm Whale in this
woof wooof wooof woof wof w woooof woooooof wof Wooof Wooof wf woof

particular. It also seems to me that such scratches in the whale are
woooooooof. Wf woof wooof wf wf woof woof wooooooof wf wof wooof wof

probably made by hostile contact with other whales; for I have most
woooooof woof wf wooooof wooooof woof wooof woooof; wof W woof woof

remarked them in the large, full-grown bulls of the species.
woooooof woof wf wof wooof, woof-wooof wooof wf wof wooooof.




A word or two more concerning this matter of the skin or blubber of
W woof wf wof woof woooooooof woof woooof wf wof woof wf wooooof wf

the whale. It has already been said, that it is stript from him in long
wof wooof. Wf wof wooooof woof woof, woof wf wf woooof woof wof wf woof

pieces, called blanket-pieces. Like most sea-terms, this one is very
woooof, woooof wooooof-woooof. Woof woof wof-wooof, woof wof wf woof

happy and significant. For the whale is indeed wrapt up in his blubber
wooof wof wooooooooof. Wof wof wooof wf woooof wooof wf wf wof wooooof

as in a real blanket or counterpane; or, still better, an Indian poncho
wf wf w woof wooooof wf wooooooooof; wf, wooof woooof, wf Woooof woooof

slipt over his head, and skirting his extremity. It is by reason of this
wooof woof wof woof, wof woooooof wof wooooooof. Wf wf wf woooof wf woof

cosy blanketing of his body, that the whale is enabled to keep himself
woof woooooooof wf wof woof, woof wof wooof wf wooooof wf woof wooooof

comfortable in all weathers, in all seas, times, and tides. What would
wooooooooof wf wof woooooof, wf wof woof, wooof, wof wooof. Woof wooof

become of a Greenland whale, say, in those shuddering, icy seas of the
woooof wf w Wooooooof wooof, wof, wf wooof woooooooof, wof woof wf wof

North, if unsupplied with his cosy surtout? True, other fish are
Wooof, wf woooooooof woof wof woof wooooof? Woof, wooof woof wof

found exceedingly brisk in those Hyperborean waters; but these, be it
wooof wooooooooof wooof wf wooof Wooooooooof woooof; wof wooof, wf wf

observed, are your cold-blooded, lungless fish, whose very bellies
woooooof, wof woof woof-wooooof, woooooof woof, wooof woof wooooof

are refrigerators; creatures, that warm themselves under the lee of
wof wooooooooooof; wooooooof, woof woof woooooooof wooof wof wof wf

an iceberg, as a traveller in winter would bask before an inn fire;
wf wooooof, wf w wooooooof wf woooof wooof woof woooof wf wof woof;

whereas, like man, the whale has lungs and warm blood. Freeze his blood,
wooooof, woof wof, wof wooof wof wooof wof woof wooof. Woooof wof wooof,

and he dies. How wonderful is it then--except after explanation--that
wof wf woof. Wof wooooooof wf wf woof--woooof wooof wooooooooof--woof

this great monster, to whom corporeal warmth is as indispensable as it
woof wooof wooooof, wf woof wooooooof woooof wf wf wooooooooooof wf wf

is to man; how wonderful that he should be found at home, immersed
wf wf wof; wof wooooooof woof wf woooof wf wooof wf woof, woooooof

to his lips for life in those Arctic waters! where, when seamen fall
wf wof woof wof woof wf wooof Woooof woooof! wooof, woof woooof woof

overboard, they are sometimes found, months afterwards, perpendicularly
wooooooof, woof wof wooooooof wooof, woooof woooooooof, wooooooooooooof

frozen into the hearts of fields of ice, as a fly is found glued
woooof woof wof woooof wf woooof wf wof, wf w wof wf wooof wooof

in amber. But more surprising is it to know, as has been proved by
wf wooof. Wof woof woooooooof wf wf wf woof, wf wof woof woooof wf

experiment, that the blood of a Polar whale is warmer than that of a
woooooooof, woof wof wooof wf w Wooof wooof wf woooof woof woof wf w

Borneo negro in summer.
Woooof wooof wf woooof.




It does seem to me, that herein we see the rare virtue of a strong
Wf woof woof wf wf, woof woooof wf wof wof woof woooof wf w woooof

individual vitality, and the rare virtue of thick walls, and the rare
woooooooof woooooof, wof wof woof woooof wf wooof wooof, wof wof woof

virtue of interior spaciousness. Oh, man! admire and model thyself after
woooof wf woooooof woooooooooof. Wf, wof! woooof wof wooof wooooof wooof

the whale! Do thou, too, remain warm among ice. Do thou, too, live in
wof wooof! Wf woof, wof, woooof woof wooof wof. Wf woof, wof, woof wf

this world without being of it. Be cool at the equator; keep thy blood
woof wooof wooooof wooof wf wf. Wf woof wf wof wooooof; woof wof wooof

fluid at the Pole. Like the great dome of St. Peter's, and like the
wooof wf wof Woof. Woof wof wooof woof wf Wf. Wooof'w, wof woof wof

great whale, retain, O man! in all seasons a temperature of thine own.
wooof wooof, woooof, W wof! wf wof wooooof w wooooooooof wf wooof wof.




But how easy and how hopeless to teach these fine things! Of erections,
Wof wof woof wof wof woooooof wf wooof wooof woof woooof! Wf wooooooof,

how few are domed like St. Peter's! of creatures, how few vast as the
wof wof wof wooof woof Wf. Wooof'w! wf wooooooof, wof wof woof wf wof

whale!
wooof!










CHAPTER 69. The Funeral.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Wooooof.







Haul in the chains! Let the carcase go astern!
Woof wf wof woooof! Wof wof wooooof wf woooof!




The vast tackles have now done their duty. The peeled white body of the
Wof woof wooooof woof wof woof wooof woof. Wof woooof wooof woof wf wof

beheaded whale flashes like a marble sepulchre; though changed in hue,
woooooof wooof wooooof woof w woooof wooooooof; woooof wooooof wf wof,

it has not perceptibly lost anything in bulk. It is still colossal.
wf wof wof wooooooooof woof woooooof wf woof. Wf wf wooof woooooof.

Slowly it floats more and more away, the water round it torn and
Woooof wf woooof woof wof woof woof, wof wooof wooof wf woof wof

splashed by the insatiate sharks, and the air above vexed with rapacious
woooooof wf wof wooooooof woooof, wof wof wof wooof wooof woof wooooooof

flights of screaming fowls, whose beaks are like so many insulting
wooooof wf wooooooof wooof, wooof wooof wof woof wf woof wooooooof

poniards in the whale. The vast white headless phantom floats further
woooooof wf wof wooof. Wof woof wooof woooooof wooooof woooof wooooof

and further from the ship, and every rod that it so floats, what seem
wof wooooof woof wof woof, wof wooof wof woof wf wf woooof, woof woof

square roods of sharks and cubic roods of fowls, augment the murderous
woooof wooof wf woooof wof wooof wooof wf wooof, wooooof wof wooooooof

din. For hours and hours from the almost stationary ship that hideous
wof. Wof wooof wof wooof woof wof woooof woooooooof woof woof wooooof

sight is seen. Beneath the unclouded and mild azure sky, upon the fair
wooof wf woof. Wooooof wof wooooooof wof woof wooof wof, woof wof woof

face of the pleasant sea, wafted by the joyous breezes, that great mass
woof wf wof woooooof wof, woooof wf wof woooof wooooof, woof wooof woof

of death floats on and on, till lost in infinite perspectives.
wf wooof woooof wf wof wf, woof woof wf woooooof woooooooooof.




There's a most doleful and most mocking funeral! The sea-vultures all in
Wooof'w w woof wooooof wof woof wooooof wooooof! Wof wof-woooooof wof wf

pious mourning, the air-sharks all punctiliously in black or speckled.
wooof woooooof, wof wof-woooof wof wooooooooooof wf wooof wf woooooof.

In life but few of them would have helped the whale, I ween, if
Wf woof wof wof wf woof wooof woof woooof wof wooof, W woof, wf

peradventure he had needed it; but upon the banquet of his funeral they
woooooooooof wf wof woooof wf; wof woof wof wooooof wf wof wooooof woof

most piously do pounce. Oh, horrible vultureism of earth! from which not
woof wooooof wf woooof. Wf, woooooof woooooooof wf wooof! woof wooof wof

the mightiest whale is free.
wof wooooooof wooof wf woof.




Nor is this the end. Desecrated as the body is, a vengeful ghost
Wof wf woof wof wof. Woooooooof wf wof woof wf, w woooooof wooof

survives and hovers over it to scare. Espied by some timid man-of-war or
woooooof wof woooof woof wf wf wooof. Woooof wf woof wooof wof-wf-wof wf

blundering discovery-vessel from afar, when the distance obscuring the
woooooooof wooooooof-woooof woof woof, woof wof woooooof wooooooof wof

swarming fowls, nevertheless still shows the white mass floating in
woooooof wooof, woooooooooof wooof wooof wof wooof woof woooooof wf

the sun, and the white spray heaving high against it; straightway the
wof wof, wof wof wooof wooof wooooof woof wooooof wf; wooooooooof wof

whale's unharming corpse, with trembling fingers is set down in the
wooof'w wooooooof woooof, woof wooooooof wooooof wf wof woof wf wof

log--SHOALS, ROCKS, AND BREAKERS HEREABOUTS: BEWARE! And for years
wof--WOOOOF, WOOOF, WOF WOOOOOOF WOOOOOOOOF: WOOOOF! Wof wof wooof

afterwards, perhaps, ships shun the place; leaping over it as silly
woooooooof, wooooof, wooof woof wof wooof; wooooof woof wf wf wooof

sheep leap over a vacuum, because their leader originally leaped there
wooof woof woof w woooof, wooooof wooof woooof woooooooof woooof wooof

when a stick was held. There's your law of precedents; there's your
woof w wooof wof woof. Wooof'w woof wof wf woooooooof; wooof'w woof

utility of traditions; there's the story of your obstinate survival of
wooooof wf woooooooof; wooof'w wof wooof wf woof wooooooof woooooof wf

old beliefs never bottomed on the earth, and now not even hovering in
wof wooooof wooof woooooof wf wof wooof, wof wof wof woof woooooof wf

the air! There's orthodoxy!
wof wof! Wooof'w wooooooof!




Thus, while in life the great whale's body may have been a real terror
Woof, wooof wf woof wof wooof wooof'w woof wof woof woof w woof woooof

to his foes, in his death his ghost becomes a powerless panic to a
wf wof woof, wf wof wooof wof wooof wooooof w wooooooof wooof wf w

world.
wooof.




Are you a believer in ghosts, my friend? There are other ghosts than
Wof wof w woooooof wf woooof, wf woooof? Wooof wof wooof woooof woof

the Cock-Lane one, and far deeper men than Doctor Johnson who believe in
wof Woof-Woof wof, wof wof woooof wof woof Woooof Wooooof wof wooooof wf

them.
woof.










CHAPTER 70. The Sphynx.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Woooof.







It should not have been omitted that previous to completely stripping
Wf woooof wof woof woof wooooof woof woooooof wf woooooooof wooooooof

the body of the leviathan, he was beheaded. Now, the beheading of the
wof woof wf wof wooooooof, wf wof woooooof. Wof, wof wooooooof wf wof

Sperm Whale is a scientific anatomical feat, upon which experienced
Wooof Wooof wf w woooooooof woooooooof woof, woof wooof wooooooooof

whale surgeons very much pride themselves: and not without reason.
wooof woooooof woof woof wooof woooooooof: wof wof wooooof woooof.




Consider that the whale has nothing that can properly be called a neck;
Woooooof woof wof wooof wof wooooof woof wof woooooof wf woooof w woof;

on the contrary, where his head and body seem to join, there, in that
wf wof woooooof, wooof wof woof wof woof woof wf woof, wooof, wf woof

very place, is the thickest part of him. Remember, also, that the
woof wooof, wf wof woooooof woof wf wof. Woooooof, woof, woof wof

surgeon must operate from above, some eight or ten feet intervening
wooooof woof wooooof woof wooof, woof wooof wf wof woof wooooooooof

between him and his subject, and that subject almost hidden in a
wooooof wof wof wof wooooof, wof woof wooooof woooof woooof wf w

discoloured, rolling, and oftentimes tumultuous and bursting sea. Bear
wooooooooof, wooooof, wof woooooooof woooooooof wof woooooof wof. Woof

in mind, too, that under these untoward circumstances he has to cut many
wf woof, wof, woof wooof wooof woooooof wooooooooooof wf wof wf wof woof

feet deep in the flesh; and in that subterraneous manner, without so
woof woof wf wof wooof; wof wf woof wooooooooooof woooof, wooooof wf

much as getting one single peep into the ever-contracting gash thus
woof wf wooooof wof woooof woof woof wof woof-wooooooooof woof woof

made, he must skilfully steer clear of all adjacent, interdicted parts,
woof, wf woof wooooooof wooof wooof wf wof woooooof, wooooooooof wooof,

and exactly divide the spine at a critical point hard by its insertion
wof wooooof woooof wof wooof wf w woooooof wooof woof wf wof wooooooof

into the skull. Do you not marvel, then, at Stubb's boast, that he
woof wof wooof. Wf wof wof woooof, woof, wf Wooof'w wooof, woof wf

demanded but ten minutes to behead a sperm whale?
woooooof wof wof wooooof wf woooof w wooof wooof?




When first severed, the head is dropped astern and held there by a cable
Woof wooof wooooof, wof woof wf wooooof woooof wof woof wooof wf w wooof

till the body is stripped. That done, if it belong to a small whale
woof wof woof wf woooooof. Woof woof, wf wf woooof wf w wooof wooof

it is hoisted on deck to be deliberately disposed of. But, with a full
wf wf wooooof wf woof wf wf woooooooooof woooooof wf. Wof, woof w woof

grown leviathan this is impossible; for the sperm whale's head embraces
wooof wooooooof woof wf woooooooof; wof wof wooof wooof'w woof woooooof

nearly one third of his entire bulk, and completely to suspend such a
woooof wof wooof wf wof woooof woof, wof woooooooof wf wooooof woof w

burden as that, even by the immense tackles of a whaler, this were as
woooof wf woof, woof wf wof wooooof wooooof wf w woooof, woof woof wf

vain a thing as to attempt weighing a Dutch barn in jewellers' scales.
woof w wooof wf wf wooooof woooooof w Wooof woof wf wooooooof' woooof.




The Pequod's whale being decapitated and the body stripped, the head was
Wof Woooof'w wooof wooof wooooooooof wof wof woof woooooof, wof woof wof

hoisted against the ship's side--about half way out of the sea, so that
wooooof wooooof wof woof'w woof--wooof woof wof wof wf wof wof, wf woof

it might yet in great part be buoyed up by its native element. And there
wf wooof wof wf wooof woof wf woooof wf wf wof woooof wooooof. Wof wooof

with the strained craft steeply leaning over to it, by reason of the
woof wof woooooof wooof wooooof wooooof woof wf wf, wf woooof wf wof

enormous downward drag from the lower mast-head, and every yard-arm
woooooof woooooof woof woof wof wooof woof-woof, wof wooof woof-wof

on that side projecting like a crane over the waves; there, that
wf woof woof woooooooof woof w wooof woof wof wooof; wooof, woof

blood-dripping head hung to the Pequod's waist like the giant
wooof-woooooof woof woof wf wof Woooof'w wooof woof wof wooof

Holofernes's from the girdle of Judith.
Woooooooof'w woof wof woooof wf Woooof.




When this last task was accomplished it was noon, and the seamen went
Woof woof woof woof wof woooooooooof wf wof woof, wof wof woooof woof

below to their dinner. Silence reigned over the before tumultuous but
wooof wf wooof woooof. Wooooof wooooof woof wof woooof woooooooof wof

now deserted deck. An intense copper calm, like a universal yellow
wof woooooof woof. Wf wooooof woooof woof, woof w wooooooof woooof

lotus, was more and more unfolding its noiseless measureless leaves upon
wooof, wof woof wof woof wooooooof wof wooooooof wooooooooof woooof woof

the sea.
wof wof.




A short space elapsed, and up into this noiselessness came Ahab alone
W wooof wooof wooooof, wof wf woof woof wooooooooooof woof Woof wooof

from his cabin. Taking a few turns on the quarter-deck, he paused to
woof wof wooof. Woooof w wof wooof wf wof wooooof-woof, wf woooof wf

gaze over the side, then slowly getting into the main-chains he
woof woof wof woof, woof woooof wooooof woof wof woof-woooof wf

took Stubb's long spade--still remaining there after the whale's
woof Wooof'w woof wooof--wooof wooooooof wooof wooof wof wooof'w

Decapitation--and striking it into the lower part of the half-suspended
Woooooooooof--wof woooooof wf woof wof wooof woof wf wof woof-wooooooof

mass, placed its other end crutch-wise under one arm, and so stood
woof, woooof wof wooof wof woooof-woof wooof wof wof, wof wf wooof

leaning over with eyes attentively fixed on this head.
wooooof woof woof woof wooooooooof wooof wf woof woof.




It was a black and hooded head; and hanging there in the midst of so
Wf wof w wooof wof woooof woof; wof wooooof wooof wf wof wooof wf wf

intense a calm, it seemed the Sphynx's in the desert. "Speak, thou vast
wooooof w woof, wf woooof wof Woooof'w wf wof woooof. "Wooof, woof woof

and venerable head," muttered Ahab, "which, though ungarnished with a
wof wooooooof woof," woooooof Woof, "wooof, woooof wooooooooof woof w

beard, yet here and there lookest hoary with mosses; speak, mighty head,
wooof, wof woof wof wooof wooooof wooof woof woooof; wooof, woooof woof,

and tell us the secret thing that is in thee. Of all divers, thou hast
wof woof wf wof woooof wooof woof wf wf woof. Wf wof woooof, woof woof

dived the deepest. That head upon which the upper sun now gleams, has
wooof wof wooooof. Woof woof woof wooof wof wooof wof wof woooof, wof

moved amid this world's foundations. Where unrecorded names and navies
wooof woof woof wooof'w wooooooooof. Wooof woooooooof wooof wof woooof

rust, and untold hopes and anchors rot; where in her murderous hold this
woof, wof woooof wooof wof wooooof wof; wooof wf wof wooooooof woof woof

frigate earth is ballasted with bones of millions of the drowned; there,
wooooof wooof wf wooooooof woof wooof wf woooooof wf wof wooooof; wooof,

in that awful water-land, there was thy most familiar home. Thou hast
wf woof wooof wooof-woof, wooof wof wof woof woooooof woof. Woof woof

been where bell or diver never went; hast slept by many a sailor's side,
woof wooof woof wf wooof wooof woof; woof wooof wf woof w woooof'w woof,

where sleepless mothers would give their lives to lay them down. Thou
wooof wooooooof wooooof wooof woof wooof wooof wf wof woof woof. Woof

saw'st the locked lovers when leaping from their flaming ship; heart
wof'wf wof woooof woooof woof wooooof woof wooof wooooof woof; wooof

to heart they sank beneath the exulting wave; true to each other, when
wf wooof woof woof wooooof wof woooooof woof; woof wf woof wooof, woof

heaven seemed false to them. Thou saw'st the murdered mate when tossed
woooof woooof wooof wf woof. Woof wof'wf wof woooooof woof woof woooof

by pirates from the midnight deck; for hours he fell into the deeper
wf wooooof woof wof woooooof woof; wof wooof wf woof woof wof woooof

midnight of the insatiate maw; and his murderers still sailed on
woooooof wf wof wooooooof wof; wof wof wooooooof wooof woooof wf

unharmed--while swift lightnings shivered the neighboring ship that
woooooof--wooof wooof woooooooof woooooof wof wooooooooof woof woof

would have borne a righteous husband to outstretched, longing arms. O
wooof woof wooof w wooooooof wooooof wf woooooooooof, wooooof woof. W

head! thou hast seen enough to split the planets and make an infidel of
woof! woof woof woof woooof wf wooof wof wooooof wof woof wf wooooof wf

Abraham, and not one syllable is thine!"
Wooooof, wof wof wof woooooof wf wooof!"




"Sail ho!" cried a triumphant voice from the main-mast-head.
"Woof wf!" wooof w woooooooof wooof woof wof woof-woof-woof.




"Aye? Well, now, that's cheering," cried Ahab, suddenly erecting
"Wof? Woof, wof, woof'w woooooof," wooof Woof, woooooof woooooof

himself, while whole thunder-clouds swept aside from his brow.
wooooof, wooof wooof wooooof-woooof wooof wooof woof wof woof.

"That lively cry upon this deadly calm might almost convert a better
"Woof woooof wof woof woof woooof woof wooof woooof wooooof w woooof

man.--Where away?"
wof.--Wooof woof?"




"Three points on the starboard bow, sir, and bringing down her breeze to
"Wooof woooof wf wof wooooooof wof, wof, wof woooooof woof wof woooof wf

us!
wf!




"Better and better, man. Would now St. Paul would come along that way,
"Woooof wof woooof, wof. Wooof wof Wf. Woof wooof woof wooof woof wof,

and to my breezelessness bring his breeze! O Nature, and O soul of man!
wof wf wf woooooooooooof wooof wof woooof! W Woooof, wof W woof wf wof!

how far beyond all utterance are your linked analogies! not the smallest
wof wof woooof wof wooooooof wof woof woooof wooooooof! wof wof woooooof

atom stirs or lives on matter, but has its cunning duplicate in mind."
woof wooof wf wooof wf woooof, wof wof wof wooooof wooooooof wf woof."










CHAPTER 71. The Jeroboam's Story.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Woooooof'w Wooof.







Hand in hand, ship and breeze blew on; but the breeze came faster than
Woof wf woof, woof wof woooof woof wf; wof wof woooof woof woooof woof

the ship, and soon the Pequod began to rock.
wof woof, wof woof wof Woooof wooof wf woof.




By and by, through the glass the stranger's boats and manned mast-heads
Wf wof wf, wooooof wof wooof wof woooooof'w wooof wof woooof woof-wooof

proved her a whale-ship. But as she was so far to windward, and shooting
woooof wof w wooof-woof. Wof wf wof wof wf wof wf woooooof, wof woooooof

by, apparently making a passage to some other ground, the Pequod could
wf, woooooooof woooof w wooooof wf woof wooof woooof, wof Woooof wooof

not hope to reach her. So the signal was set to see what response would
wof woof wf wooof wof. Wf wof woooof wof wof wf wof woof woooooof wooof

be made.
wf woof.




Here be it said, that like the vessels of military marines, the ships of
Woof wf wf woof, woof woof wof wooooof wf woooooof wooooof, wof wooof wf

the American Whale Fleet have each a private signal; all which signals
wof Woooooof Wooof Wooof woof woof w wooooof woooof; wof wooof wooooof

being collected in a book with the names of the respective vessels
wooof wooooooof wf w woof woof wof wooof wf wof woooooooof wooooof

attached, every captain is provided with it. Thereby, the whale
woooooof, wooof wooooof wf woooooof woof wf. Wooooof, wof wooof

commanders are enabled to recognise each other upon the ocean, even at
woooooooof wof wooooof wf wooooooof woof wooof woof wof wooof, woof wf

considerable distances and with no small facility.
woooooooooof wooooooof wof woof wf wooof woooooof.




The Pequod's signal was at last responded to by the stranger's setting
Wof Woooof'w woooof wof wf woof wooooooof wf wf wof woooooof'w wooooof

her own; which proved the ship to be the Jeroboam of Nantucket. Squaring
wof wof; wooof woooof wof woof wf wf wof Woooooof wf Wooooooof. Woooooof

her yards, she bore down, ranged abeam under the Pequod's lee, and
wof wooof, wof woof woof, woooof wooof wooof wof Woooof'w wof, wof

lowered a boat; it soon drew nigh; but, as the side-ladder was being
wooooof w woof; wf woof woof woof; wof, wf wof woof-woooof wof wooof

rigged by Starbuck's order to accommodate the visiting captain, the
woooof wf Woooooof'w wooof wf wooooooooof wof woooooof wooooof, wof

stranger in question waved his hand from his boat's stern in token
woooooof wf woooooof wooof wof woof woof wof woof'w wooof wf wooof

of that proceeding being entirely unnecessary. It turned out that
wf woof woooooooof wooof woooooof wooooooooof. Wf woooof wof woof

the Jeroboam had a malignant epidemic on board, and that Mayhew, her
wof Woooooof wof w wooooooof woooooof wf wooof, wof woof Woooof, wof

captain, was fearful of infecting the Pequod's company. For, though
wooooof, wof wooooof wf wooooooof wof Woooof'w wooooof. Wof, woooof

himself and boat's crew remained untainted, and though his ship was half
wooooof wof woof'w woof woooooof wooooooof, wof woooof wof woof wof woof

a rifle-shot off, and an incorruptible sea and air rolling and flowing
w wooof-woof wof, wof wf wooooooooooof wof wof wof wooooof wof wooooof

between; yet conscientiously adhering to the timid quarantine of the
wooooof; wof wooooooooooooof woooooof wf wof wooof woooooooof wf wof

land, he peremptorily refused to come into direct contact with the
woof, wf woooooooooof wooooof wf woof woof woooof wooooof woof wof

Pequod.
Woooof.




But this did by no means prevent all communications. Preserving an
Wof woof wof wf wf wooof wooooof wof woooooooooooof. Woooooooof wf

interval of some few yards between itself and the ship, the Jeroboam's
woooooof wf woof wof wooof wooooof woooof wof wof woof, wof Woooooof'w

boat by the occasional use of its oars contrived to keep parallel to the
woof wf wof woooooooof wof wf wof woof wooooooof wf woof woooooof wf wof

Pequod, as she heavily forged through the sea (for by this time it blew
Woooof, wf wof wooooof woooof wooooof wof wof (wof wf woof woof wf woof

very fresh), with her main-topsail aback; though, indeed, at times by
woof wooof), woof wof woof-wooooof wooof; woooof, woooof, wf wooof wf

the sudden onset of a large rolling wave, the boat would be pushed some
wof woooof wooof wf w wooof wooooof woof, wof woof wooof wf woooof woof

way ahead; but would be soon skilfully brought to her proper bearings
wof wooof; wof wooof wf woof wooooooof wooooof wf wof woooof woooooof

again. Subject to this, and other the like interruptions now and then, a
wooof. Wooooof wf woof, wof wooof wof woof wooooooooooof wof wof woof, w

conversation was sustained between the two parties; but at intervals not
woooooooooof wof wooooooof wooooof wof wof wooooof; wof wf wooooooof wof

without still another interruption of a very different sort.
wooooof wooof wooooof woooooooooof wf w woof wooooooof woof.




Pulling an oar in the Jeroboam's boat, was a man of a singular
Wooooof wf wof wf wof Woooooof'w woof, wof w wof wf w woooooof

appearance, even in that wild whaling life where individual notabilities
woooooooof, woof wf woof woof wooooof woof wooof woooooooof woooooooooof

make up all totalities. He was a small, short, youngish man, sprinkled
woof wf wof woooooooof. Wf wof w wooof, wooof, woooooof wof, wooooooof

all over his face with freckles, and wearing redundant yellow hair. A
wof woof wof woof woof woooooof, wof wooooof wooooooof woooof woof. W

long-skirted, cabalistically-cut coat of a faded walnut tinge enveloped
woof-wooooof, woooooooooooof-wof woof wf w wooof woooof wooof wooooooof

him; the overlapping sleeves of which were rolled up on his wrists. A
wof; wof wooooooooof wooooof wf wooof woof woooof wf wf wof woooof. W

deep, settled, fanatic delirium was in his eyes.
woof, wooooof, wooooof woooooof wof wf wof woof.




So soon as this figure had been first descried, Stubb had
Wf woof wf woof woooof wof woof wooof woooooof, Wooof wof

exclaimed--"That's he! that's he!--the long-togged scaramouch the
wooooooof--"Woof'w wf! woof'w wf!--wof woof-woooof woooooooof wof

Town-Ho's company told us of!" Stubb here alluded to a strange story
Woof-Wf'w wooooof woof wf wf!" Wooof woof wooooof wf w wooooof wooof

told of the Jeroboam, and a certain man among her crew, some time
woof wf wof Woooooof, wof w wooooof wof wooof wof woof, woof woof

previous when the Pequod spoke the Town-Ho. According to this account
woooooof woof wof Woooof wooof wof Woof-Wf. Wooooooof wf woof wooooof

and what was subsequently learned, it seemed that the scaramouch in
wof woof wof woooooooooof wooooof, wf woooof woof wof woooooooof wf

question had gained a wonderful ascendency over almost everybody in the
woooooof wof woooof w wooooooof woooooooof woof woooof wooooooof wf wof

Jeroboam. His story was this:
Woooooof. Wof wooof wof woof:




He had been originally nurtured among the crazy society of Neskyeuna
Wf wof woof woooooooof woooooof wooof wof wooof wooooof wf Wooooooof

Shakers, where he had been a great prophet; in their cracked, secret
Wooooof, wooof wf wof woof w wooof wooooof; wf wooof wooooof, woooof

meetings having several times descended from heaven by the way of a
woooooof woooof wooooof wooof wooooooof woof woooof wf wof wof wf w

trap-door, announcing the speedy opening of the seventh vial, which he
woof-woof, woooooooof wof woooof wooooof wf wof wooooof woof, wooof wf

carried in his vest-pocket; but, which, instead of containing gunpowder,
wooooof wf wof woof-woooof; wof, wooof, wooooof wf woooooooof wooooooof,

was supposed to be charged with laudanum. A strange, apostolic whim
wof woooooof wf wf wooooof woof woooooof. W wooooof, wooooooof woof

having seized him, he had left Neskyeuna for Nantucket, where, with
woooof woooof wof, wf wof woof Wooooooof wof Wooooooof, wooof, woof

that cunning peculiar to craziness, he assumed a steady, common-sense
woof wooooof woooooof wf wooooooof, wf wooooof w woooof, woooof-wooof

exterior, and offered himself as a green-hand candidate for the
woooooof, wof wooooof wooooof wf w wooof-woof wooooooof wof wof

Jeroboam's whaling voyage. They engaged him; but straightway upon
Woooooof'w wooooof woooof. Woof wooooof wof; wof wooooooooof woof

the ship's getting out of sight of land, his insanity broke out in a
wof woof'w wooooof wof wf wooof wf woof, wof woooooof wooof wof wf w

freshet. He announced himself as the archangel Gabriel, and commanded
wooooof. Wf wooooooof wooooof wf wof wooooooof Wooooof, wof wooooooof

the captain to jump overboard. He published his manifesto, whereby
wof wooooof wf woof wooooooof. Wf wooooooof wof wooooooof, wooooof

he set himself forth as the deliverer of the isles of the sea and
wf wof wooooof wooof wf wof wooooooof wf wof wooof wf wof wof wof

vicar-general of all Oceanica. The unflinching earnestness with which he
wooof-wooooof wf wof Woooooof. Wof wooooooooof wooooooooof woof wooof wf

declared these things;--the dark, daring play of his sleepless, excited
woooooof wooof woooof;--wof woof, woooof woof wf wof wooooooof, wooooof

imagination, and all the preternatural terrors of real delirium, united
wooooooooof, wof wof wof wooooooooooof wooooof wf woof woooooof, woooof

to invest this Gabriel in the minds of the majority of the ignorant
wf woooof woof Wooooof wf wof wooof wf wof woooooof wf wof woooooof

crew, with an atmosphere of sacredness. Moreover, they were afraid of
woof, woof wf woooooooof wf woooooooof. Woooooof, woof woof woooof wf

him. As such a man, however, was not of much practical use in the ship,
wof. Wf woof w wof, wooooof, wof wof wf woof wooooooof wof wf wof woof,

especially as he refused to work except when he pleased, the incredulous
woooooooof wf wf wooooof wf woof woooof woof wf wooooof, wof wooooooooof

captain would fain have been rid of him; but apprised that that
wooooof wooof woof woof woof wof wf wof; wof woooooof woof woof

individual's intention was to land him in the first convenient port, the
woooooooof'w wooooooof wof wf woof wof wf wof wooof woooooooof woof, wof

archangel forthwith opened all his seals and vials--devoting the ship
wooooooof wooooooof woooof wof wof wooof wof wooof--woooooof wof woof

and all hands to unconditional perdition, in case this intention was
wof wof wooof wf wooooooooooof wooooooof, wf woof woof wooooooof wof

carried out. So strongly did he work upon his disciples among the crew,
wooooof wof. Wf woooooof wof wf woof woof wof wooooooof wooof wof woof,

that at last in a body they went to the captain and told him if Gabriel
woof wf woof wf w woof woof woof wf wof wooooof wof woof wof wf Wooooof

was sent from the ship, not a man of them would remain. He was therefore
wof woof woof wof woof, wof w wof wf woof wooof woooof. Wf wof wooooooof

forced to relinquish his plan. Nor would they permit Gabriel to be any
woooof wf woooooooof wof woof. Wof wooof woof woooof Wooooof wf wf wof

way maltreated, say or do what he would; so that it came to pass that
wof woooooooof, wof wf wf woof wf wooof; wf woof wf woof wf woof woof

Gabriel had the complete freedom of the ship. The consequence of all
Wooooof wof wof woooooof wooooof wf wof woof. Wof wooooooooof wf wof

this was, that the archangel cared little or nothing for the captain and
woof wof, woof wof wooooooof wooof woooof wf wooooof wof wof wooooof wof

mates; and since the epidemic had broken out, he carried a higher hand
wooof; wof wooof wof woooooof wof woooof wof, wf wooooof w woooof woof

than ever; declaring that the plague, as he called it, was at his sole
woof woof; wooooooof woof wof woooof, wf wf woooof wf, wof wf wof woof

command; nor should it be stayed but according to his good pleasure.
wooooof; wof woooof wf wf woooof wof wooooooof wf wof woof woooooof.

The sailors, mostly poor devils, cringed, and some of them fawned before
Wof wooooof, woooof woof woooof, wooooof, wof woof wf woof woooof woooof

him; in obedience to his instructions, sometimes rendering him personal
wof; wf wooooooof wf wof woooooooooof, wooooooof wooooooof wof woooooof

homage, as to a god. Such things may seem incredible; but, however
woooof, wf wf w wof. Woof woooof wof woof woooooooof; wof, wooooof

wondrous, they are true. Nor is the history of fanatics half so striking
woooooof, woof wof woof. Wof wf wof wooooof wf woooooof woof wf woooooof

in respect to the measureless self-deception of the fanatic himself, as
wf wooooof wf wof wooooooooof woof-wooooooof wf wof wooooof wooooof, wf

his measureless power of deceiving and bedevilling so many others. But
wof wooooooooof wooof wf wooooooof wof wooooooooof wf woof woooof. Wof

it is time to return to the Pequod.
wf wf woof wf woooof wf wof Woooof.




"I fear not thy epidemic, man," said Ahab from the bulwarks, to Captain
"W woof wof wof woooooof, wof," woof Woof woof wof woooooof, wf Wooooof

Mayhew, who stood in the boat's stern; "come on board."
Woooof, wof wooof wf wof woof'w wooof; "woof wf wooof."




But now Gabriel started to his feet.
Wof wof Wooooof wooooof wf wof woof.




"Think, think of the fevers, yellow and bilious! Beware of the horrible
"Wooof, wooof wf wof woooof, woooof wof wooooof! Woooof wf wof woooooof

plague!"
woooof!"




"Gabriel! Gabriel!" cried Captain Mayhew; "thou must either--" But
"Wooooof! Wooooof!" wooof Wooooof Woooof; "woof woof woooof--" Wof

that instant a headlong wave shot the boat far ahead, and its seethings
woof wooooof w woooooof woof woof wof woof wof wooof, wof wof wooooooof

drowned all speech.
wooooof wof woooof.




"Hast thou seen the White Whale?" demanded Ahab, when the boat drifted
"Woof woof woof wof Wooof Wooof?" woooooof Woof, woof wof woof wooooof

back.
woof.




"Think, think of thy whale-boat, stoven and sunk! Beware of the horrible
"Wooof, wooof wf wof wooof-woof, woooof wof woof! Woooof wf wof woooooof

tail!"
woof!"




"I tell thee again, Gabriel, that--" But again the boat tore ahead as if
"W woof woof wooof, Wooooof, woof--" Wof wooof wof woof woof wooof wf wf

dragged by fiends. Nothing was said for some moments, while a succession
wooooof wf woooof. Wooooof wof woof wof woof wooooof, wooof w woooooooof

of riotous waves rolled by, which by one of those occasional caprices
wf wooooof wooof woooof wf, wooof wf wof wf wooof woooooooof woooooof

of the seas were tumbling, not heaving it. Meantime, the hoisted sperm
wf wof woof woof woooooof, wof wooooof wf. Woooooof, wof wooooof wooof

whale's head jogged about very violently, and Gabriel was seen eyeing
wooof'w woof woooof wooof woof wooooooof, wof Wooooof wof woof woooof

it with rather more apprehensiveness than his archangel nature seemed to
wf woof woooof woof woooooooooooooof woof wof wooooooof woooof woooof wf

warrant.
wooooof.




When this interlude was over, Captain Mayhew began a dark story
Woof woof wooooooof wof woof, Wooooof Woooof wooof w woof wooof

concerning Moby Dick; not, however, without frequent interruptions from
woooooooof Woof Woof; wof, wooooof, wooooof woooooof wooooooooooof woof

Gabriel, whenever his name was mentioned, and the crazy sea that seemed
Wooooof, woooooof wof woof wof wooooooof, wof wof wooof wof woof woooof

leagued with him.
wooooof woof wof.




It seemed that the Jeroboam had not long left home, when upon speaking
Wf woooof woof wof Woooooof wof wof woof woof woof, woof woof woooooof

a whale-ship, her people were reliably apprised of the existence of Moby
w wooof-woof, wof woooof woof woooooof woooooof wf wof wooooooof wf Woof

Dick, and the havoc he had made. Greedily sucking in this intelligence,
Woof, wof wof wooof wf wof woof. Woooooof wooooof wf woof woooooooooof,

Gabriel solemnly warned the captain against attacking the White
Wooooof woooooof woooof wof wooooof wooooof wooooooof wof Wooof

Whale, in case the monster should be seen; in his gibbering insanity,
Wooof, wf woof wof wooooof woooof wf woof; wf wof wooooooof woooooof,

pronouncing the White Whale to be no less a being than the Shaker God
wooooooooof wof Wooof Wooof wf wf wf woof w wooof woof wof Woooof Wof

incarnated; the Shakers receiving the Bible. But when, some year or two
woooooooof; wof Wooooof wooooooof wof Wooof. Wof woof, woof woof wf wof

afterwards, Moby Dick was fairly sighted from the mast-heads, Macey, the
woooooooof, Woof Woof wof woooof wooooof woof wof woof-wooof, Wooof, wof

chief mate, burned with ardour to encounter him; and the captain himself
wooof woof, woooof woof woooof wf wooooooof wof; wof wof wooooof wooooof

being not unwilling to let him have the opportunity, despite all
wooof wof wooooooof wf wof wof woof wof wooooooooof, wooooof wof

the archangel's denunciations and forewarnings, Macey succeeded in
wof wooooooof'w wooooooooooof wof woooooooooof, Wooof wooooooof wf

persuading five men to man his boat. With them he pushed off; and, after
woooooooof woof wof wf wof wof woof. Woof woof wf woooof wof; wof, wooof

much weary pulling, and many perilous, unsuccessful onsets, he at last
woof wooof wooooof, wof woof woooooof, woooooooooof woooof, wf wf woof

succeeded in getting one iron fast. Meantime, Gabriel, ascending to
wooooooof wf wooooof wof woof woof. Woooooof, Wooooof, wooooooof wf

the main-royal mast-head, was tossing one arm in frantic gestures, and
wof woof-wooof woof-woof, wof wooooof wof wof wf wooooof woooooof, wof

hurling forth prophecies of speedy doom to the sacrilegious assailants
wooooof wooof woooooooof wf woooof woof wf wof woooooooooof woooooooof

of his divinity. Now, while Macey, the mate, was standing up in his
wf wof woooooof. Wof, wooof Wooof, wof woof, wof woooooof wf wf wof

boat's bow, and with all the reckless energy of his tribe was venting
woof'w wof, wof woof wof wof woooooof woooof wf wof wooof wof wooooof

his wild exclamations upon the whale, and essaying to get a fair chance
wof woof woooooooooof woof wof wooof, wof woooooof wf wof w woof woooof

for his poised lance, lo! a broad white shadow rose from the sea; by its
wof wof woooof wooof, wf! w wooof wooof woooof woof woof wof wof; wf wof

quick, fanning motion, temporarily taking the breath out of the bodies
wooof, wooooof woooof, wooooooooof woooof wof woooof wof wf wof woooof

of the oarsmen. Next instant, the luckless mate, so full of furious
wf wof wooooof. Woof wooooof, wof woooooof woof, wf woof wf wooooof

life, was smitten bodily into the air, and making a long arc in his
woof, wof wooooof woooof woof wof wof, wof woooof w woof wof wf wof

descent, fell into the sea at the distance of about fifty yards. Not a
wooooof, woof woof wof wof wf wof woooooof wf wooof wooof wooof. Wof w

chip of the boat was harmed, nor a hair of any oarsman's head; but the
woof wf wof woof wof woooof, wof w woof wf wof wooooof'w woof; wof wof

mate for ever sank.
woof wof woof woof.




It is well to parenthesize here, that of the fatal accidents in the
Wf wf woof wf woooooooooof woof, woof wf wof wooof wooooooof wf wof

Sperm-Whale Fishery, this kind is perhaps almost as frequent as any.
Wooof-Wooof Wooooof, woof woof wf wooooof woooof wf woooooof wf wof.

Sometimes, nothing is injured but the man who is thus annihilated;
Wooooooof, wooooof wf wooooof wof wof wof wof wf woof wooooooooof;

oftener the boat's bow is knocked off, or the thigh-board, in which the
wooooof wof woof'w wof wf wooooof wof, wf wof wooof-wooof, wf wooof wof

headsman stands, is torn from its place and accompanies the body. But
woooooof woooof, wf woof woof wof wooof wof wooooooooof wof woof. Wof

strangest of all is the circumstance, that in more instances than one,
wooooooof wf wof wf wof woooooooooof, woof wf woof wooooooof woof wof,

when the body has been recovered, not a single mark of violence is
woof wof woof wof woof wooooooof, wof w woooof woof wf woooooof wf

discernible; the man being stark dead.
wooooooooof; wof wof wooof wooof woof.




The whole calamity, with the falling form of Macey, was plainly descried
Wof wooof woooooof, woof wof wooooof woof wf Wooof, wof wooooof woooooof

from the ship. Raising a piercing shriek--"The vial! the vial!" Gabriel
woof wof woof. Wooooof w woooooof woooof--"Wof woof! wof woof!" Wooooof

called off the terror-stricken crew from the further hunting of the
woooof wof wof woooof-woooooof woof woof wof wooooof wooooof wf wof

whale. This terrible event clothed the archangel with added influence;
wooof. Woof woooooof wooof wooooof wof wooooooof woof wooof wooooooof;

because his credulous disciples believed that he had specifically
wooooof wof wooooooof wooooooof woooooof woof wf wof woooooooooof

fore-announced it, instead of only making a general prophecy, which any
woof-wooooooof wf, wooooof wf woof woooof w wooooof woooooof, wooof wof

one might have done, and so have chanced to hit one of many marks in the
wof wooof woof woof, wof wf woof wooooof wf wof wof wf woof wooof wf wof

wide margin allowed. He became a nameless terror to the ship.
woof woooof wooooof. Wf woooof w woooooof woooof wf wof woof.




Mayhew having concluded his narration, Ahab put such questions to
Woooof woooof wooooooof wof wooooooof, Woof wof woof wooooooof wf

him, that the stranger captain could not forbear inquiring whether he
wof, woof wof woooooof wooooof wooof wof wooooof wooooooof wooooof wf

intended to hunt the White Whale, if opportunity should offer. To which
woooooof wf woof wof Wooof Wooof, wf wooooooooof woooof wooof. Wf wooof

Ahab answered--"Aye." Straightway, then, Gabriel once more started
Woof woooooof--"Wof." Wooooooooof, woof, Wooooof woof woof wooooof

to his feet, glaring upon the old man, and vehemently exclaimed, with
wf wof woof, wooooof woof wof wof wof, wof woooooooof wooooooof, woof

downward pointed finger--"Think, think of the blasphemer--dead, and down
woooooof wooooof woooof--"Wooof, wooof wf wof woooooooof--woof, wof woof

there!--beware of the blasphemer's end!"
wooof!--woooof wf wof woooooooof'w wof!"




Ahab stolidly turned aside; then said to Mayhew, "Captain, I have
Woof woooooof woooof wooof; woof woof wf Woooof, "Wooooof, W woof

just bethought me of my letter-bag; there is a letter for one of thy
woof wooooooof wf wf wf woooof-wof; wooof wf w woooof wof wof wf wof

officers, if I mistake not. Starbuck, look over the bag."
woooooof, wf W wooooof wof. Woooooof, woof woof wof wof."




Every whale-ship takes out a goodly number of letters for various ships,
Wooof wooof-woof wooof wof w woooof woooof wf wooooof wof wooooof wooof,

whose delivery to the persons to whom they may be addressed, depends
wooof woooooof wf wof wooooof wf woof woof wof wf wooooooof, wooooof

upon the mere chance of encountering them in the four oceans. Thus,
woof wof woof woooof wf woooooooooof woof wf wof woof woooof. Woof,

most letters never reach their mark; and many are only received after
woof wooooof wooof wooof wooof woof; wof woof wof woof woooooof wooof

attaining an age of two or three years or more.
wooooooof wf wof wf wof wf wooof wooof wf woof.




Soon Starbuck returned with a letter in his hand. It was sorely tumbled,
Woof Woooooof woooooof woof w woooof wf wof woof. Wf wof woooof wooooof,

damp, and covered with a dull, spotted, green mould, in consequence
woof, wof wooooof woof w woof, wooooof, wooof wooof, wf wooooooooof

of being kept in a dark locker of the cabin. Of such a letter, Death
wf wooof woof wf w woof woooof wf wof wooof. Wf woof w woooof, Wooof

himself might well have been the post-boy.
wooooof wooof woof woof woof wof woof-wof.




"Can'st not read it?" cried Ahab. "Give it me, man. Aye, aye, it's but
"Wof'wf wof woof wf?" wooof Woof. "Woof wf wf, wof. Wof, wof, wf'w wof

a dim scrawl;--what's this?" As he was studying it out, Starbuck took a
w wof woooof;--woof'w woof?" Wf wf wof woooooof wf wof, Woooooof woof w

long cutting-spade pole, and with his knife slightly split the end, to
woof wooooof-wooof woof, wof woof wof wooof woooooof wooof wof wof, wf

insert the letter there, and in that way, hand it to the boat, without
woooof wof woooof wooof, wof wf woof wof, woof wf wf wof woof, wooooof

its coming any closer to the ship.
wof woooof wof woooof wf wof woof.




Meantime, Ahab holding the letter, muttered, "Mr. Har--yes, Mr.
Woooooof, Woof wooooof wof woooof, woooooof, "Wf. Wof--wof, Wf.

Harry--(a woman's pinny hand,--the man's wife, I'll wager)--Aye--Mr.
Wooof--(w wooof'w wooof woof,--wof wof'w woof, W'wf wooof)--Wof--Wf.

Harry Macey, Ship Jeroboam;--why it's Macey, and he's dead!"
Wooof Wooof, Woof Woooooof;--wof wf'w Wooof, wof wf'w woof!"




"Poor fellow! poor fellow! and from his wife," sighed Mayhew; "but let
"Woof woooof! woof woooof! wof woof wof woof," woooof Woooof; "wof wof

me have it."
wf woof wf."




"Nay, keep it thyself," cried Gabriel to Ahab; "thou art soon going that
"Wof, woof wf wooooof," wooof Wooooof wf Woof; "woof wof woof wooof woof

way."
wof."




"Curses throttle thee!" yelled Ahab. "Captain Mayhew, stand by now to
"Woooof woooooof woof!" woooof Woof. "Wooooof Woooof, wooof wf wof wf

receive it"; and taking the fatal missive from Starbuck's hands, he
wooooof wf"; wof woooof wof wooof wooooof woof Woooooof'w wooof, wf

caught it in the slit of the pole, and reached it over towards the boat.
woooof wf wf wof woof wf wof woof, wof wooooof wf woof wooooof wof woof.

But as he did so, the oarsmen expectantly desisted from rowing; the boat
Wof wf wf wof wf, wof wooooof wooooooooof woooooof woof woooof; wof woof

drifted a little towards the ship's stern; so that, as if by magic, the
wooooof w woooof wooooof wof woof'w wooof; wf woof, wf wf wf wooof, wof

letter suddenly ranged along with Gabriel's eager hand. He clutched it
woooof woooooof woooof wooof woof Wooooof'w wooof woof. Wf woooooof wf

in an instant, seized the boat-knife, and impaling the letter on it,
wf wf wooooof, woooof wof woof-wooof, wof woooooof wof woooof wf wf,

sent it thus loaded back into the ship. It fell at Ahab's feet. Then
woof wf woof woooof woof woof wof woof. Wf woof wf Woof'w woof. Woof

Gabriel shrieked out to his comrades to give way with their oars, and in
Wooooof woooooof wof wf wof woooooof wf woof wof woof wooof woof, wof wf

that manner the mutinous boat rapidly shot away from the Pequod.
woof woooof wof woooooof woof wooooof woof woof woof wof Woooof.




As, after this interlude, the seamen resumed their work upon the jacket
Wf, wooof woof wooooooof, wof woooof wooooof wooof woof woof wof woooof

of the whale, many strange things were hinted in reference to this wild
wf wof wooof, woof wooooof woooof woof woooof wf wooooooof wf woof woof

affair.
woooof.










CHAPTER 72. The Monkey-Rope.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Woooof-Woof.







In the tumultuous business of cutting-in and attending to a whale, there
Wf wof woooooooof woooooof wf wooooof-wf wof wooooooof wf w wooof, wooof

is much running backwards and forwards among the crew. Now hands are
wf woof wooooof wooooooof wof woooooof wooof wof woof. Wof wooof wof

wanted here, and then again hands are wanted there. There is no staying
woooof woof, wof woof wooof wooof wof woooof wooof. Wooof wf wf wooooof

in any one place; for at one and the same time everything has to be done
wf wof wof wooof; wof wf wof wof wof woof woof woooooooof wof wf wf woof

everywhere. It is much the same with him who endeavors the description
woooooooof. Wf wf woof wof woof woof wof wof wooooooof wof wooooooooof

of the scene. We must now retrace our way a little. It was mentioned
wf wof wooof. Wf woof wof wooooof wof wof w woooof. Wf wof wooooooof

that upon first breaking ground in the whale's back, the blubber-hook
woof woof wooof woooooof woooof wf wof wooof'w woof, wof wooooof-woof

was inserted into the original hole there cut by the spades of the
wof woooooof woof wof woooooof woof wooof wof wf wof woooof wf wof

mates. But how did so clumsy and weighty a mass as that same hook
wooof. Wof wof wof wf woooof wof wooooof w woof wf woof woof woof

get fixed in that hole? It was inserted there by my particular friend
wof wooof wf woof woof? Wf wof woooooof wooof wf wf woooooooof woooof

Queequeg, whose duty it was, as harpooneer, to descend upon the
Woooooof, wooof woof wf wof, wf woooooooof, wf wooooof woof wof

monster's back for the special purpose referred to. But in very many
wooooof'w woof wof wof wooooof wooooof woooooof wf. Wof wf woof woof

cases, circumstances require that the harpooneer shall remain on the
wooof, wooooooooooof wooooof woof wof woooooooof wooof woooof wf wof

whale till the whole flensing or stripping operation is concluded. The
wooof woof wof wooof woooooof wf wooooooof wooooooof wf wooooooof. Wof

whale, be it observed, lies almost entirely submerged, excepting the
wooof, wf wf woooooof, woof woooof woooooof wooooooof, wooooooof wof

immediate parts operated upon. So down there, some ten feet below the
wooooooof wooof woooooof woof. Wf woof wooof, woof wof woof wooof wof

level of the deck, the poor harpooneer flounders about, half on the
wooof wf wof woof, wof woof woooooooof wooooooof wooof, woof wf wof

whale and half in the water, as the vast mass revolves like a tread-mill
wooof wof woof wf wof wooof, wf wof woof woof woooooof woof w wooof-woof

beneath him. On the occasion in question, Queequeg figured in the
wooooof wof. Wf wof woooooof wf woooooof, Woooooof wooooof wf wof

Highland costume--a shirt and socks--in which to my eyes, at least,
Woooooof wooooof--w wooof wof wooof--wf wooof wf wf woof, wf wooof,

he appeared to uncommon advantage; and no one had a better chance to
wf woooooof wf woooooof wooooooof; wof wf wof wof w woooof woooof wf

observe him, as will presently be seen.
wooooof wof, wf woof wooooooof wf woof.




Being the savage's bowsman, that is, the person who pulled the bow-oar
Wooof wof woooof'w wooooof, woof wf, wof woooof wof woooof wof wof-wof

in his boat (the second one from forward), it was my cheerful duty to
wf wof woof (wof woooof wof woof wooooof), wf wof wf woooooof woof wf

attend upon him while taking that hard-scrabble scramble upon the dead
woooof woof wof wooof woooof woof woof-woooooof woooooof woof wof woof

whale's back. You have seen Italian organ-boys holding a dancing-ape by
wooof'w woof. Wof woof woof Wooooof wooof-woof wooooof w wooooof-wof wf

a long cord. Just so, from the ship's steep side, did I hold Queequeg
w woof woof. Woof wf, woof wof woof'w wooof woof, wof W woof Woooooof

down there in the sea, by what is technically called in the fishery
woof wooof wf wof wof, wf woof wf wooooooooof woooof wf wof wooooof

a monkey-rope, attached to a strong strip of canvas belted round his
w woooof-woof, woooooof wf w woooof wooof wf woooof woooof wooof wof

waist.
wooof.




It was a humorously perilous business for both of us. For, before we
Wf wof w woooooooof woooooof woooooof wof woof wf wf. Wof, woooof wf

proceed further, it must be said that the monkey-rope was fast at
wooooof wooooof, wf woof wf woof woof wof woooof-woof wof woof wf

both ends; fast to Queequeg's broad canvas belt, and fast to my narrow
woof woof; woof wf Woooooof'w wooof woooof woof, wof woof wf wf woooof

leather one. So that for better or for worse, we two, for the time, were
wooooof wof. Wf woof wof woooof wf wof wooof, wf wof, wof wof woof, woof

wedded; and should poor Queequeg sink to rise no more, then both usage
woooof; wof woooof woof Woooooof woof wf woof wf woof, woof woof wooof

and honour demanded, that instead of cutting the cord, it should drag
wof woooof woooooof, woof wooooof wf wooooof wof woof, wf woooof woof

me down in his wake. So, then, an elongated Siamese ligature united us.
wf woof wf wof woof. Wf, woof, wf wooooooof Wooooof woooooof woooof wf.

Queequeg was my own inseparable twin brother; nor could I any way get
Woooooof wof wf wof wooooooooof woof wooooof; wof wooof W wof wof wof

rid of the dangerous liabilities which the hempen bond entailed.
wof wf wof wooooooof wooooooooof wooof wof woooof woof woooooof.




So strongly and metaphysically did I conceive of my situation then, that
Wf woooooof wof woooooooooooof wof W woooooof wf wf wooooooof woof, woof

while earnestly watching his motions, I seemed distinctly to perceive
wooof wooooooof woooooof wof wooooof, W woooof woooooooof wf woooooof

that my own individuality was now merged in a joint stock company of
woof wf wof wooooooooooof wof wof woooof wf w wooof wooof wooooof wf

two; that my free will had received a mortal wound; and that another's
wof; woof wf woof woof wof woooooof w woooof wooof; wof woof wooooof'w

mistake or misfortune might plunge innocent me into unmerited disaster
wooooof wf woooooooof wooof woooof woooooof wf woof wooooooof woooooof

and death. Therefore, I saw that here was a sort of interregnum in
wof wooof. Wooooooof, W wof woof woof wof w woof wf wooooooooof wf

Providence; for its even-handed equity never could have so gross an
Woooooooof; wof wof woof-woooof woooof wooof wooof woof wf wooof wf

injustice. And yet still further pondering--while I jerked him now
wooooooof. Wof wof wooof wooooof wooooooof--wooof W woooof wof wof

and then from between the whale and ship, which would threaten to jam
wof woof woof wooooof wof wooof wof woof, wooof wooof woooooof wf wof

him--still further pondering, I say, I saw that this situation of mine
wof--wooof wooooof wooooooof, W wof, W wof woof woof wooooooof wf woof

was the precise situation of every mortal that breathes; only, in most
wof wof wooooof wooooooof wf wooof woooof woof woooooof; woof, wf woof

cases, he, one way or other, has this Siamese connexion with a plurality
wooof, wf, wof wof wf wooof, wof woof Wooooof wooooooof woof w wooooooof

of other mortals. If your banker breaks, you snap; if your apothecary by
wf wooof wooooof. Wf woof woooof woooof, wof woof; wf woof woooooooof wf

mistake sends you poison in your pills, you die. True, you may say
wooooof wooof wof woooof wf woof wooof, wof wof. Woof, wof wof wof

that, by exceeding caution, you may possibly escape these and the
woof, wf wooooooof wooooof, wof wof woooooof woooof wooof wof wof

multitudinous other evil chances of life. But handle Queequeg's
wooooooooooof wooof woof wooooof wf woof. Wof woooof Woooooof'w

monkey-rope heedfully as I would, sometimes he jerked it so, that I came
woooof-woof wooooooof wf W wooof, wooooooof wf woooof wf wf, woof W woof

very near sliding overboard. Nor could I possibly forget that, do what I
woof woof wooooof wooooooof. Wof wooof W woooooof woooof woof, wf woof W

would, I only had the management of one end of it.*
wooof, W woof wof wof woooooooof wf wof wof wf wf.*







*The monkey-rope is found in all whalers; but it was only in the Pequod
*Wof woooof-woof wf wooof wf wof wooooof; wof wf wof woof wf wof Woooof

that the monkey and his holder were ever tied together. This improvement
woof wof woooof wof wof woooof woof woof woof woooooof. Woof wooooooooof

upon the original usage was introduced by no less a man than Stubb,
woof wof woooooof wooof wof woooooooof wf wf woof w wof woof Wooof,

in order to afford the imperilled harpooneer the strongest possible
wf wooof wf woooof wof woooooooof woooooooof wof wooooooof woooooof

guarantee for the faithfulness and vigilance of his monkey-rope holder.
wooooooof wof wof woooooooooof wof wooooooof wf wof woooof-woof woooof.







I have hinted that I would often jerk poor Queequeg from between the
W woof woooof woof W wooof wooof woof woof Woooooof woof wooooof wof

whale and the ship--where he would occasionally fall, from the incessant
wooof wof wof woof--wooof wf wooof woooooooooof woof, woof wof wooooooof

rolling and swaying of both. But this was not the only jamming jeopardy
wooooof wof wooooof wf woof. Wof woof wof wof wof woof wooooof woooooof

he was exposed to. Unappalled by the massacre made upon them during the
wf wof wooooof wf. Woooooooof wf wof woooooof woof woof woof woooof wof

night, the sharks now freshly and more keenly allured by the before pent
wooof, wof woooof wof wooooof wof woof woooof wooooof wf wof woooof woof

blood which began to flow from the carcass--the rabid creatures swarmed
wooof wooof wooof wf woof woof wof wooooof--wof wooof wooooooof wooooof

round it like bees in a beehive.
wooof wf woof woof wf w wooooof.




And right in among those sharks was Queequeg; who often pushed them
Wof wooof wf wooof wooof woooof wof Woooooof; wof wooof woooof woof

aside with his floundering feet. A thing altogether incredible were
wooof woof wof wooooooooof woof. W wooof woooooooof woooooooof woof

it not that attracted by such prey as a dead whale, the otherwise
wf wof woof wooooooof wf woof woof wf w woof wooof, wof wooooooof

miscellaneously carnivorous shark will seldom touch a man.
wooooooooooooof wooooooooof wooof woof woooof wooof w wof.




Nevertheless, it may well be believed that since they have such a
Woooooooooof, wf wof woof wf woooooof woof wooof woof woof woof w

ravenous finger in the pie, it is deemed but wise to look sharp to them.
woooooof woooof wf wof wof, wf wf woooof wof woof wf woof wooof wf woof.

Accordingly, besides the monkey-rope, with which I now and then jerked
Wooooooooof, wooooof wof woooof-woof, woof wooof W wof wof woof woooof

the poor fellow from too close a vicinity to the maw of what seemed
wof woof woooof woof wof wooof w woooooof wf wof wof wf woof woooof

a peculiarly ferocious shark--he was provided with still another
w woooooooof wooooooof wooof--wf wof woooooof woof wooof wooooof

protection. Suspended over the side in one of the stages, Tashtego
woooooooof. Wooooooof woof wof woof wf wof wf wof woooof, Woooooof

and Daggoo continually flourished over his head a couple of keen
wof Woooof wooooooooof woooooooof woof wof woof w woooof wf woof

whale-spades, wherewith they slaughtered as many sharks as they could
wooof-woooof, wooooooof woof wooooooooof wf woof woooof wf woof wooof

reach. This procedure of theirs, to be sure, was very disinterested and
wooof. Woof wooooooof wf woooof, wf wf woof, wof woof wooooooooooof wof

benevolent of them. They meant Queequeg's best happiness, I admit; but
woooooooof wf woof. Woof wooof Woooooof'w woof wooooooof, W wooof; wof

in their hasty zeal to befriend him, and from the circumstance that both
wf wooof wooof woof wf woooooof wof, wof woof wof woooooooooof woof woof

he and the sharks were at times half hidden by the blood-muddled water,
wf wof wof woooof woof wf wooof woof woooof wf wof wooof-wooooof wooof,

those indiscreet spades of theirs would come nearer amputating a leg
wooof woooooooof woooof wf woooof wooof woof woooof woooooooof w wof

than a tail. But poor Queequeg, I suppose, straining and gasping there
woof w woof. Wof woof Woooooof, W wooooof, wooooooof wof wooooof wooof

with that great iron hook--poor Queequeg, I suppose, only prayed to his
woof woof wooof woof woof--woof Woooooof, W wooooof, woof woooof wf wof

Yojo, and gave up his life into the hands of his gods.
Woof, wof woof wf wof woof woof wof wooof wf wof woof.




Well, well, my dear comrade and twin-brother, thought I, as I drew in
Woof, woof, wf woof wooooof wof woof-wooooof, wooooof W, wf W woof wf

and then slacked off the rope to every swell of the sea--what matters
wof woof wooooof wof wof woof wf wooof wooof wf wof wof--woof wooooof

it, after all? Are you not the precious image of each and all of us men
wf, wooof wof? Wof wof wof wof woooooof wooof wf woof wof wof wf wf wof

in this whaling world? That unsounded ocean you gasp in, is Life; those
wf woof wooooof wooof? Woof wooooooof wooof wof woof wf, wf Woof; wooof

sharks, your foes; those spades, your friends; and what between sharks
woooof, woof woof; wooof woooof, woof wooooof; wof woof wooooof woooof

and spades you are in a sad pickle and peril, poor lad.
wof woooof wof wof wf w wof woooof wof wooof, woof wof.




But courage! there is good cheer in store for you, Queequeg. For now, as
Wof wooooof! wooof wf woof wooof wf wooof wof wof, Woooooof. Wof wof, wf

with blue lips and blood-shot eyes the exhausted savage at last climbs
woof woof woof wof wooof-woof woof wof wooooooof woooof wf woof woooof

up the chains and stands all dripping and involuntarily trembling over
wf wof woooof wof woooof wof woooooof wof wooooooooooof wooooooof woof

the side; the steward advances, and with a benevolent, consolatory
wof woof; wof wooooof woooooof, wof woof w woooooooof, wooooooooof

glance hands him--what? Some hot Cognac? No! hands him, ye gods! hands
woooof wooof wof--woof? Woof wof Woooof? Wf! wooof wof, wf woof! wooof

him a cup of tepid ginger and water!
wof w wof wf wooof woooof wof wooof!




"Ginger? Do I smell ginger?" suspiciously asked Stubb, coming near.
"Woooof? Wf W wooof woooof?" woooooooooof wooof Wooof, woooof woof.

"Yes, this must be ginger," peering into the as yet untasted cup. Then
"Wof, woof woof wf woooof," wooooof woof wof wf wof woooooof wof. Woof

standing as if incredulous for a while, he calmly walked towards the
woooooof wf wf wooooooooof wof w wooof, wf woooof woooof wooooof wof

astonished steward slowly saying, "Ginger? ginger? and will you have
woooooooof wooooof woooof woooof, "Woooof? woooof? wof woof wof woof

the goodness to tell me, Mr. Dough-Boy, where lies the virtue of ginger?
wof woooooof wf woof wf, Wf. Wooof-Wof, wooof woof wof woooof wf woooof?

Ginger! is ginger the sort of fuel you use, Dough-boy, to kindle a fire
Woooof! wf woooof wof woof wf woof wof wof, Wooof-wof, wf woooof w woof

in this shivering cannibal? Ginger!--what the devil is ginger?
wf woof wooooooof woooooof? Woooof!--woof wof wooof wf woooof?

Sea-coal? firewood?--lucifer matches?--tinder?--gunpowder?--what the
Wof-woof? woooooof?--wooooof wooooof?--woooof?--wooooooof?--woof wof

devil is ginger, I say, that you offer this cup to our poor Queequeg
wooof wf woooof, W wof, woof wof wooof woof wof wf wof woof Woooooof

here."
woof."




"There is some sneaking Temperance Society movement about this
"Wooof wf woof woooooof Woooooooof Wooooof woooooof wooof woof

business," he suddenly added, now approaching Starbuck, who had just
woooooof," wf woooooof wooof, wof wooooooooof Woooooof, wof wof woof

come from forward. "Will you look at that kannakin, sir; smell of it,
woof woof wooooof. "Woof wof woof wf woof woooooof, wof; wooof wf wf,

if you please." Then watching the mate's countenance, he added, "The
wf wof woooof." Woof woooooof wof woof'w wooooooooof, wf wooof, "Wof

steward, Mr. Starbuck, had the face to offer that calomel and jalap
wooooof, Wf. Woooooof, wof wof woof wf wooof woof wooooof wof wooof

to Queequeg, there, this instant off the whale. Is the steward an
wf Woooooof, wooof, woof wooooof wof wof wooof. Wf wof wooooof wf

apothecary, sir? and may I ask whether this is the sort of bitters by
woooooooof, wof? wof wof W wof wooooof woof wf wof woof wf wooooof wf

which he blows back the life into a half-drowned man?"
wooof wf wooof woof wof woof woof w woof-wooooof wof?"




"I trust not," said Starbuck, "it is poor stuff enough."
"W wooof wof," woof Woooooof, "wf wf woof wooof woooof."




"Aye, aye, steward," cried Stubb, "we'll teach you to drug a
"Wof, wof, wooooof," wooof Wooof, "wf'wf wooof wof wf woof w

harpooneer; none of your apothecary's medicine here; you want to poison
woooooooof; woof wf woof woooooooof'w woooooof woof; wof woof wf woooof

us, do ye? You have got out insurances on our lives and want to murder
wf, wf wf? Wof woof wof wof woooooooof wf wof wooof wof woof wf woooof

us all, and pocket the proceeds, do ye?"
wf wof, wof woooof wof woooooof, wf wf?"




"It was not me," cried Dough-Boy, "it was Aunt Charity that brought the
"Wf wof wof wf," wooof Wooof-Wof, "wf wof Woof Wooooof woof wooooof wof

ginger on board; and bade me never give the harpooneers any spirits, but
woooof wf wooof; wof woof wf wooof woof wof wooooooooof wof wooooof, wof

only this ginger-jub--so she called it."
woof woof woooof-wof--wf wof woooof wf."




"Ginger-jub! you gingerly rascal! take that! and run along with ye
"Woooof-wof! wof woooooof woooof! woof woof! wof wof wooof woof wf

to the lockers, and get something better. I hope I do no wrong, Mr.
wf wof wooooof, wof wof wooooooof woooof. W woof W wf wf wooof, Wf.

Starbuck. It is the captain's orders--grog for the harpooneer on a
Woooooof. Wf wf wof wooooof'w woooof--woof wof wof woooooooof wf w

whale."
wooof."




"Enough," replied Starbuck, "only don't hit him again, but--"
"Woooof," wooooof Woooooof, "woof wof'w wof wof wooof, wof--"




"Oh, I never hurt when I hit, except when I hit a whale or something of
"Wf, W wooof woof woof W wof, woooof woof W wof w wooof wf wooooooof wf

that sort; and this fellow's a weazel. What were you about saying, sir?"
woof woof; wof woof woooof'w w woooof. Woof woof wof wooof woooof, wof?"




"Only this: go down with him, and get what thou wantest thyself."
"Woof woof: wf woof woof wof, wof wof woof woof wooooof wooooof."




When Stubb reappeared, he came with a dark flask in one hand, and a sort
Woof Wooof woooooooof, wf woof woof w woof wooof wf wof woof, wof w woof

of tea-caddy in the other. The first contained strong spirits, and was
wf wof-wooof wf wof wooof. Wof wooof wooooooof woooof wooooof, wof wof

handed to Queequeg; the second was Aunt Charity's gift, and that was
woooof wf Woooooof; wof woooof wof Woof Wooooof'w woof, wof woof wof

freely given to the waves.
woooof wooof wf wof wooof.










CHAPTER 73. Stubb and Flask Kill a Right Whale; and Then Have a Talk
WOOOOOF wf. Wooof wof Wooof Woof w Wooof Wooof; wof Woof Woof w Woof

Over Him.
Woof Wof.







It must be borne in mind that all this time we have a Sperm Whale's
Wf woof wf wooof wf woof woof wof woof woof wf woof w Wooof Wooof'w

prodigious head hanging to the Pequod's side. But we must let it
woooooooof woof wooooof wf wof Woooof'w woof. Wof wf woof wof wf

continue hanging there a while till we can get a chance to attend to it.
woooooof wooooof wooof w wooof woof wf wof wof w woooof wf woooof wf wf.

For the present other matters press, and the best we can do now for the
Wof wof wooooof wooof wooooof wooof, wof wof woof wf wof wf wof wof wof

head, is to pray heaven the tackles may hold.
woof, wf wf woof woooof wof wooooof wof woof.




Now, during the past night and forenoon, the Pequod had gradually
Wof, woooof wof woof wooof wof woooooof, wof Woooof wof wooooooof

drifted into a sea, which, by its occasional patches of yellow brit,
wooooof woof w wof, wooof, wf wof woooooooof wooooof wf woooof woof,

gave unusual tokens of the vicinity of Right Whales, a species of the
woof wooooof woooof wf wof woooooof wf Wooof Woooof, w wooooof wf wof

Leviathan that but few supposed to be at this particular time lurking
Wooooooof woof wof wof woooooof wf wf wf woof woooooooof woof wooooof

anywhere near. And though all hands commonly disdained the capture of
woooooof woof. Wof woooof wof wooof woooooof wooooooof wof wooooof wf

those inferior creatures; and though the Pequod was not commissioned to
wooof woooooof wooooooof; wof woooof wof Woooof wof wof woooooooooof wf

cruise for them at all, and though she had passed numbers of them near
woooof wof woof wf wof, wof woooof wof wof woooof wooooof wf woof woof

the Crozetts without lowering a boat; yet now that a Sperm Whale
wof Woooooof wooooof woooooof w woof; wof wof woof w Wooof Wooof

had been brought alongside and beheaded, to the surprise of all, the
wof woof wooooof wooooooof wof woooooof, wf wof woooooof wf wof, wof

announcement was made that a Right Whale should be captured that day, if
woooooooooof wof woof woof w Wooof Wooof woooof wf woooooof woof wof, wf

opportunity offered.
wooooooooof wooooof.




Nor was this long wanting. Tall spouts were seen to leeward; and two
Wof wof woof woof wooooof. Woof woooof woof woof wf wooooof; wof wof

boats, Stubb's and Flask's, were detached in pursuit. Pulling further
wooof, Wooof'w wof Wooof'w, woof woooooof wf wooooof. Wooooof wooooof

and further away, they at last became almost invisible to the men at
wof wooooof woof, woof wf woof woooof woooof wooooooof wf wof wof wf

the mast-head. But suddenly in the distance, they saw a great heap of
wof woof-woof. Wof woooooof wf wof woooooof, woof wof w wooof woof wf

tumultuous white water, and soon after news came from aloft that one or
woooooooof wooof wooof, wof woof wooof woof woof woof wooof woof wof wf

both the boats must be fast. An interval passed and the boats were in
woof wof wooof woof wf woof. Wf woooooof woooof wof wof wooof woof wf

plain sight, in the act of being dragged right towards the ship by the
wooof wooof, wf wof wof wf wooof wooooof wooof wooooof wof woof wf wof

towing whale. So close did the monster come to the hull, that at
woooof wooof. Wf wooof wof wof wooooof woof wf wof woof, woof wf

first it seemed as if he meant it malice; but suddenly going down in a
wooof wf woooof wf wf wf wooof wf woooof; wof woooooof wooof woof wf w

maelstrom, within three rods of the planks, he wholly disappeared from
wooooooof, woooof wooof woof wf wof woooof, wf woooof wooooooooof woof

view, as if diving under the keel. "Cut, cut!" was the cry from the
woof, wf wf woooof wooof wof woof. "Wof, wof!" wof wof wof woof wof

ship to the boats, which, for one instant, seemed on the point of being
woof wf wof wooof, wooof, wof wof wooooof, woooof wf wof wooof wf wooof

brought with a deadly dash against the vessel's side. But having plenty
wooooof woof w woooof woof wooooof wof woooof'w woof. Wof woooof woooof

of line yet in the tubs, and the whale not sounding very rapidly, they
wf woof wof wf wof woof, wof wof wooof wof woooooof woof wooooof, woof

paid out abundance of rope, and at the same time pulled with all their
woof wof wooooooof wf woof, wof wf wof woof woof woooof woof wof wooof

might so as to get ahead of the ship. For a few minutes the struggle was
wooof wf wf wf wof wooof wf wof woof. Wof w wof wooooof wof woooooof wof

intensely critical; for while they still slacked out the tightened line
wooooooof woooooof; wof wooof woof wooof wooooof wof wof wooooooof woof

in one direction, and still plied their oars in another, the contending
wf wof wooooooof, wof wooof wooof wooof woof wf wooooof, wof woooooooof

strain threatened to take them under. But it was only a few feet advance
woooof woooooooof wf woof woof wooof. Wof wf wof woof w wof woof wooooof

they sought to gain. And they stuck to it till they did gain it; when
woof woooof wf woof. Wof woof wooof wf wf woof woof wof woof wf; woof

instantly, a swift tremor was felt running like lightning along the
wooooooof, w wooof woooof wof woof wooooof woof wooooooof wooof wof

keel, as the strained line, scraping beneath the ship, suddenly rose
woof, wf wof woooooof woof, woooooof wooooof wof woof, woooooof woof

to view under her bows, snapping and quivering; and so flinging off its
wf woof wooof wof woof, woooooof wof wooooooof; wof wf woooooof wof wof

drippings, that the drops fell like bits of broken glass on the water,
wooooooof, woof wof wooof woof woof woof wf woooof wooof wf wof wooof,

while the whale beyond also rose to sight, and once more the boats were
wooof wof wooof woooof woof woof wf wooof, wof woof woof wof wooof woof

free to fly. But the fagged whale abated his speed, and blindly altering
woof wf wof. Wof wof woooof wooof woooof wof wooof, wof wooooof woooooof

his course, went round the stern of the ship towing the two boats after
wof woooof, woof wooof wof wooof wf wof woof woooof wof wof wooof wooof

him, so that they performed a complete circuit.
wof, wf woof woof wooooooof w woooooof wooooof.




Meantime, they hauled more and more upon their lines, till close
Woooooof, woof woooof woof wof woof woof wooof wooof, woof wooof

flanking him on both sides, Stubb answered Flask with lance for
woooooof wof wf woof wooof, Wooof woooooof Wooof woof wooof wof

lance; and thus round and round the Pequod the battle went, while the
wooof; wof woof wooof wof wooof wof Woooof wof woooof woof, wooof wof

multitudes of sharks that had before swum round the Sperm Whale's body,
woooooooof wf woooof woof wof woooof woof wooof wof Wooof Wooof'w woof,

rushed to the fresh blood that was spilled, thirstily drinking at every
woooof wf wof wooof wooof woof wof wooooof, wooooooof woooooof wf wooof

new gash, as the eager Israelites did at the new bursting fountains that
wof woof, wf wof wooof Woooooooof wof wf wof wof woooooof wooooooof woof

poured from the smitten rock.
woooof woof wof wooooof woof.




At last his spout grew thick, and with a frightful roll and vomit, he
Wf woof wof wooof woof wooof, wof woof w wooooooof woof wof wooof, wf

turned upon his back a corpse.
woooof woof wof woof w woooof.




While the two headsmen were engaged in making fast cords to his flukes,
Wooof wof wof woooooof woof wooooof wf woooof woof wooof wf wof woooof,

and in other ways getting the mass in readiness for towing, some
wof wf wooof woof wooooof wof woof wf wooooooof wof woooof, woof

conversation ensued between them.
woooooooooof woooof wooooof woof.




"I wonder what the old man wants with this lump of foul lard," said
"W woooof woof wof wof wof wooof woof woof woof wf woof woof," woof

Stubb, not without some disgust at the thought of having to do with so
Wooof, wof wooooof woof wooooof wf wof wooooof wf woooof wf wf woof wf

ignoble a leviathan.
wooooof w wooooooof.




"Wants with it?" said Flask, coiling some spare line in the boat's bow,
"Wooof woof wf?" woof Wooof, wooooof woof wooof woof wf wof woof'w wof,

"did you never hear that the ship which but once has a Sperm Whale's
"wof wof wooof woof woof wof woof wooof wof woof wof w Wooof Wooof'w

head hoisted on her starboard side, and at the same time a Right Whale's
woof wooooof wf wof wooooooof woof, wof wf wof woof woof w Wooof Wooof'w

on the larboard; did you never hear, Stubb, that that ship can never
wf wof woooooof; wof wof wooof woof, Wooof, woof woof woof wof wooof

afterwards capsize?"
woooooooof wooooof?"




"Why not?
"Wof wof?




"I don't know, but I heard that gamboge ghost of a Fedallah saying so,
"W wof'w woof, wof W wooof woof wooooof wooof wf w Woooooof woooof wf,

and he seems to know all about ships' charms. But I sometimes think
wof wf wooof wf woof wof wooof wooof' woooof. Wof W wooooooof wooof

he'll charm the ship to no good at last. I don't half like that chap,
wf'wf wooof wof woof wf wf woof wf woof. W wof'w woof woof woof woof,

Stubb. Did you ever notice how that tusk of his is a sort of carved into
Wooof. Wof wof woof woooof wof woof woof wf wof wf w woof wf woooof woof

a snake's head, Stubb?"
w wooof'w woof, Wooof?"




"Sink him! I never look at him at all; but if ever I get a chance of a
"Woof wof! W wooof woof wf wof wf wof; wof wf woof W wof w woooof wf w

dark night, and he standing hard by the bulwarks, and no one by; look
woof wooof, wof wf woooooof woof wf wof woooooof, wof wf wof wf; woof

down there, Flask"--pointing into the sea with a peculiar motion of
woof wooof, Wooof"--woooooof woof wof wof woof w woooooof woooof wf

both hands--"Aye, will I! Flask, I take that Fedallah to be the devil in
woof wooof--"Wof, woof W! Wooof, W woof woof Woooooof wf wf wof wooof wf

disguise. Do you believe that cock and bull story about his having been
woooooof. Wf wof wooooof woof woof wof woof wooof wooof wof woooof woof

stowed away on board ship? He's the devil, I say. The reason why you
woooof woof wf wooof woof? Wf'w wof wooof, W wof. Wof woooof wof wof

don't see his tail, is because he tucks it up out of sight; he carries
wof'w wof wof woof, wf wooooof wf wooof wf wf wof wf wooof; wf wooooof

it coiled away in his pocket, I guess. Blast him! now that I think of
wf woooof woof wf wof woooof, W wooof. Wooof wof! wof woof W wooof wf

it, he's always wanting oakum to stuff into the toes of his boots."
wf, wf'w woooof wooooof wooof wf wooof woof wof woof wf wof wooof."




"He sleeps in his boots, don't he? He hasn't got any hammock; but I've
"Wf woooof wf wof wooof, wof'w wf? Wf woof'w wof wof wooooof; wof W'wf

seen him lay of nights in a coil of rigging."
woof wof wof wf woooof wf w woof wf wooooof."




"No doubt, and it's because of his cursed tail; he coils it down, do ye
"Wf wooof, wof wf'w wooooof wf wof woooof woof; wf wooof wf woof, wf wf

see, in the eye of the rigging."
wof, wf wof wof wf wof wooooof."




"What's the old man have so much to do with him for?"
"Woof'w wof wof wof woof wf woof wf wf woof wof wof?"




"Striking up a swap or a bargain, I suppose."
"Woooooof wf w woof wf w wooooof, W wooooof."




"Bargain?--about what?"
"Wooooof?--wooof woof?"




"Why, do ye see, the old man is hard bent after that White Whale, and
"Wof, wf wf wof, wof wof wof wf woof woof wooof woof Wooof Wooof, wof

the devil there is trying to come round him, and get him to swap away
wof wooof wooof wf woooof wf woof wooof wof, wof wof wof wf woof woof

his silver watch, or his soul, or something of that sort, and then he'll
wof woooof wooof, wf wof woof, wf wooooooof wf woof woof, wof woof wf'wf

surrender Moby Dick."
wooooooof Woof Woof."




"Pooh! Stubb, you are skylarking; how can Fedallah do that?"
"Woof! Wooof, wof wof woooooooof; wof wof Woooooof wf woof?"




"I don't know, Flask, but the devil is a curious chap, and a wicked
"W wof'w woof, Wooof, wof wof wooof wf w wooooof woof, wof w woooof

one, I tell ye. Why, they say as how he went a sauntering into the
wof, W woof wf. Wof, woof wof wf wof wf woof w woooooooof woof wof

old flag-ship once, switching his tail about devilish easy and
wof woof-woof woof, wooooooof wof woof wooof woooooof woof wof

gentlemanlike, and inquiring if the old governor was at home. Well, he
wooooooooooof, wof wooooooof wf wof wof woooooof wof wf woof. Woof, wf

was at home, and asked the devil what he wanted. The devil, switching
wof wf woof, wof wooof wof wooof woof wf woooof. Wof wooof, wooooooof

his hoofs, up and says, 'I want John.' 'What for?' says the old
wof wooof, wf wof woof, 'W woof Woof.' 'Woof wof?' woof wof wof

governor. 'What business is that of yours,' says the devil, getting
woooooof. 'Woof woooooof wf woof wf wooof,' woof wof wooof, wooooof

mad,--'I want to use him.' 'Take him,' says the governor--and by the
wof,--'W woof wf wof wof.' 'Woof wof,' woof wof woooooof--wof wf wof

Lord, Flask, if the devil didn't give John the Asiatic cholera before
Woof, Wooof, wf wof wooof woof'w woof Woof wof Wooooof wooooof woooof

he got through with him, I'll eat this whale in one mouthful. But look
wf wof wooooof woof wof, W'wf wof woof wooof wf wof woooooof. Wof woof

sharp--ain't you all ready there? Well, then, pull ahead, and let's get
wooof--wof'w wof wof wooof wooof? Woof, woof, woof wooof, wof wof'w wof

the whale alongside."
wof wooof wooooooof."




"I think I remember some such story as you were telling," said Flask,
"W wooof W woooooof woof woof wooof wf wof woof wooooof," woof Wooof,

when at last the two boats were slowly advancing with their burden
woof wf woof wof wof wooof woof woooof wooooooof woof wooof woooof

towards the ship, "but I can't remember where."
wooooof wof woof, "wof W wof'w woooooof wooof."




"Three Spaniards? Adventures of those three bloody-minded soladoes? Did
"Wooof Wooooooof? Woooooooof wf wooof wooof woooof-woooof woooooof? Wof

ye read it there, Flask? I guess ye did?"
wf woof wf wooof, Wooof? W wooof wf wof?"




"No: never saw such a book; heard of it, though. But now, tell me,
"Wf: wooof wof woof w woof; wooof wf wf, woooof. Wof wof, woof wf,

Stubb, do you suppose that that devil you was speaking of just now, was
Wooof, wf wof wooooof woof woof wooof wof wof woooooof wf woof wof, wof

the same you say is now on board the Pequod?"
wof woof wof wof wf wof wf wooof wof Woooof?"




"Am I the same man that helped kill this whale? Doesn't the devil live
"Wf W wof woof wof woof woooof woof woof wooof? Wooof'w wof wooof woof

for ever; who ever heard that the devil was dead? Did you ever see
wof woof; wof woof wooof woof wof wooof wof woof? Wof wof woof wof

any parson a wearing mourning for the devil? And if the devil has a
wof woooof w wooooof woooooof wof wof wooof? Wof wf wof wooof wof w

latch-key to get into the admiral's cabin, don't you suppose he can
wooof-wof wf wof woof wof wooooof'w wooof, wof'w wof wooooof wf wof

crawl into a porthole? Tell me that, Mr. Flask?"
wooof woof w woooooof? Woof wf woof, Wf. Wooof?"




"How old do you suppose Fedallah is, Stubb?"
"Wof wof wf wof wooooof Woooooof wf, Wooof?"




"Do you see that mainmast there?" pointing to the ship; "well, that's
"Wf wof wof woof woooooof wooof?" woooooof wf wof woof; "woof, woof'w

the figure one; now take all the hoops in the Pequod's hold, and string
wof woooof wof; wof woof wof wof wooof wf wof Woooof'w woof, wof woooof

along in a row with that mast, for oughts, do you see; well, that
wooof wf w wof woof woof woof, wof woooof, wf wof wof; woof, woof

wouldn't begin to be Fedallah's age. Nor all the coopers in creation
woooof'w wooof wf wf Woooooof'w wof. Wof wof wof wooooof wf woooooof

couldn't show hoops enough to make oughts enough."
woooof'w woof wooof woooof wf woof woooof woooof."




"But see here, Stubb, I thought you a little boasted just now, that you
"Wof wof woof, Wooof, W wooooof wof w woooof wooooof woof wof, woof wof

meant to give Fedallah a sea-toss, if you got a good chance. Now, if
wooof wf woof Woooooof w wof-woof, wf wof wof w woof woooof. Wof, wf

he's so old as all those hoops of yours come to, and if he is going
wf'w wf wof wf wof wooof wooof wf wooof woof wf, wof wf wf wf wooof

to live for ever, what good will it do to pitch him overboard--tell me
wf woof wof woof, woof woof woof wf wf wf wooof wof wooooooof--woof wf

that?
woof?




"Give him a good ducking, anyhow."
"Woof wof w woof wooooof, woooof."




"But he'd crawl back."
"Wof wf'w wooof woof."




"Duck him again; and keep ducking him."
"Woof wof wooof; wof woof wooooof wof."




"Suppose he should take it into his head to duck you, though--yes, and
"Wooooof wf woooof woof wf woof wof woof wf woof wof, woooof--wof, wof

drown you--what then?"
wooof wof--woof woof?"




"I should like to see him try it; I'd give him such a pair of black eyes
"W woooof woof wf wof wof wof wf; W'w woof wof woof w woof wf wooof woof

that he wouldn't dare to show his face in the admiral's cabin again for
woof wf woooof'w woof wf woof wof woof wf wof wooooof'w wooof wooof wof

a long while, let alone down in the orlop there, where he lives, and
w woof wooof, wof wooof woof wf wof wooof wooof, wooof wf wooof, wof

hereabouts on the upper decks where he sneaks so much. Damn the devil,
woooooooof wf wof wooof wooof wooof wf woooof wf woof. Woof wof wooof,

Flask; so you suppose I'm afraid of the devil? Who's afraid of
Wooof; wf wof wooooof W'w woooof wf wof wooof? Wof'w woooof wf

him, except the old governor who daresn't catch him and put him in
wof, woooof wof wof woooooof wof woooof'w wooof wof wof wof wof wf

double-darbies, as he deserves, but lets him go about kidnapping
woooof-wooooof, wf wf woooooof, wof woof wof wf wooof woooooooof

people; aye, and signed a bond with him, that all the people the devil
woooof; wof, wof woooof w woof woof wof, woof wof wof woooof wof wooof

kidnapped, he'd roast for him? There's a governor!"
wooooooof, wf'w wooof wof wof? Wooof'w w woooooof!"




"Do you suppose Fedallah wants to kidnap Captain Ahab?"
"Wf wof wooooof Woooooof wooof wf woooof Wooooof Woof?"




"Do I suppose it? You'll know it before long, Flask. But I am going now
"Wf W wooooof wf? Wof'wf woof wf woooof woof, Wooof. Wof W wf wooof wof

to keep a sharp look-out on him; and if I see anything very suspicious
wf woof w wooof woof-wof wf wof; wof wf W wof woooooof woof woooooooof

going on, I'll just take him by the nape of his neck, and say--Look
wooof wf, W'wf woof woof wof wf wof woof wf wof woof, wof wof--Woof

here, Beelzebub, you don't do it; and if he makes any fuss, by the Lord
woof, Wooooooof, wof wof'w wf wf; wof wf wf wooof wof woof, wf wof Woof

I'll make a grab into his pocket for his tail, take it to the capstan,
W'wf woof w woof woof wof woooof wof wof woof, woof wf wf wof wooooof,

and give him such a wrenching and heaving, that his tail will come short
wof woof wof woof w wooooooof wof wooooof, woof wof woof woof woof wooof

off at the stump--do you see; and then, I rather guess when he finds
wof wf wof wooof--wf wof wof; wof woof, W woooof wooof woof wf wooof

himself docked in that queer fashion, he'll sneak off without the poor
wooooof woooof wf woof wooof wooooof, wf'wf wooof wof wooooof wof woof

satisfaction of feeling his tail between his legs."
woooooooooof wf wooooof wof woof wooooof wof woof."




"And what will you do with the tail, Stubb?"
"Wof woof woof wof wf woof wof woof, Wooof?"




"Do with it? Sell it for an ox whip when we get home;--what else?"
"Wf woof wf? Woof wf wof wf wf woof woof wf wof woof;--woof woof?"




"Now, do you mean what you say, and have been saying all along, Stubb?"
"Wof, wf wof woof woof wof wof, wof woof woof woooof wof wooof, Wooof?"




"Mean or not mean, here we are at the ship."
"Woof wf wof woof, woof wf wof wf wof woof."




The boats were here hailed, to tow the whale on the larboard side, where
Wof wooof woof woof woooof, wf wof wof wooof wf wof woooooof woof, wooof

fluke chains and other necessaries were already prepared for securing
wooof woooof wof wooof wooooooooof woof wooooof woooooof wof woooooof

him.
wof.




"Didn't I tell you so?" said Flask; "yes, you'll soon see this right
"Woof'w W woof wof wf?" woof Wooof; "wof, wof'wf woof wof woof wooof

whale's head hoisted up opposite that parmacetti's."
wooof'w woof wooooof wf woooooof woof woooooooof'w."




In good time, Flask's saying proved true. As before, the Pequod steeply
Wf woof woof, Wooof'w woooof woooof woof. Wf woooof, wof Woooof wooooof

leaned over towards the sperm whale's head, now, by the counterpoise of
woooof woof wooooof wof wooof wooof'w woof, wof, wf wof woooooooooof wf

both heads, she regained her even keel; though sorely strained, you may
woof wooof, wof woooooof wof woof woof; woooof woooof woooooof, wof wof

well believe. So, when on one side you hoist in Locke's head, you go
woof wooooof. Wf, woof wf wof woof wof wooof wf Wooof'w woof, wof wf

over that way; but now, on the other side, hoist in Kant's and you come
woof woof wof; wof wof, wf wof wooof woof, wooof wf Woof'w wof wof woof

back again; but in very poor plight. Thus, some minds for ever keep
woof wooof; wof wf woof woof woooof. Woof, woof wooof wof woof woof

trimming boat. Oh, ye foolish! throw all these thunder-heads overboard,
woooooof woof. Wf, wf wooooof! wooof wof wooof wooooof-wooof wooooooof,

and then you will float light and right.
wof woof wof woof wooof wooof wof wooof.




In disposing of the body of a right whale, when brought alongside the
Wf wooooooof wf wof woof wf w wooof wooof, woof wooooof wooooooof wof

ship, the same preliminary proceedings commonly take place as in the
woof, wof woof wooooooooof wooooooooof woooooof woof wooof wf wf wof

case of a sperm whale; only, in the latter instance, the head is cut off
woof wf w wooof wooof; woof, wf wof woooof woooooof, wof woof wf wof wof

whole, but in the former the lips and tongue are separately removed and
wooof, wof wf wof woooof wof woof wof woooof wof woooooooof wooooof wof

hoisted on deck, with all the well known black bone attached to what is
wooooof wf woof, woof wof wof woof wooof wooof woof woooooof wf woof wf

called the crown-piece. But nothing like this, in the present case,
woooof wof wooof-wooof. Wof wooooof woof woof, wf wof wooooof woof,

had been done. The carcases of both whales had dropped astern; and
wof woof woof. Wof woooooof wf woof woooof wof wooooof woooof; wof

the head-laden ship not a little resembled a mule carrying a pair of
wof woof-wooof woof wof w woooof wooooooof w woof woooooof w woof wf

overburdening panniers.
wooooooooooof woooooof.




Meantime, Fedallah was calmly eyeing the right whale's head, and ever
Woooooof, Woooooof wof woooof woooof wof wooof wooof'w woof, wof woof

and anon glancing from the deep wrinkles there to the lines in his own
wof woof woooooof woof wof woof woooooof wooof wf wof wooof wf wof wof

hand. And Ahab chanced so to stand, that the Parsee occupied his shadow;
woof. Wof Woof wooooof wf wf wooof, woof wof Woooof woooooof wof woooof;

while, if the Parsee's shadow was there at all it seemed only to
wooof, wf wof Woooof'w woooof wof wooof wf wof wf woooof woof wf

blend with, and lengthen Ahab's. As the crew toiled on, Laplandish
wooof woof, wof woooooof Woof'w. Wf wof woof woooof wf, Woooooooof

speculations were bandied among them, concerning all these passing
woooooooooof woof wooooof wooof woof, woooooooof wof wooof wooooof

things.
woooof.










CHAPTER 74. The Sperm Whale's Head--Contrasted View.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Wooof Wooof'w Woof--Woooooooof Woof.







Here, now, are two great whales, laying their heads together; let us
Woof, wof, wof wof wooof woooof, woooof wooof wooof woooooof; wof wf

join them, and lay together our own.
woof woof, wof wof woooooof wof wof.




Of the grand order of folio leviathans, the Sperm Whale and the Right
Wf wof wooof wooof wf wooof woooooooof, wof Wooof Wooof wof wof Wooof

Whale are by far the most noteworthy. They are the only whales regularly
Wooof wof wf wof wof woof woooooooof. Woof wof wof woof woooof wooooooof

hunted by man. To the Nantucketer, they present the two extremes of all
woooof wf wof. Wf wof Wooooooooof, woof wooooof wof wof woooooof wf wof

the known varieties of the whale. As the external difference between
wof wooof wooooooof wf wof wooof. Wf wof woooooof woooooooof wooooof

them is mainly observable in their heads; and as a head of each is this
woof wf woooof woooooooof wf wooof wooof; wof wf w woof wf woof wf woof

moment hanging from the Pequod's side; and as we may freely go from one
woooof wooooof woof wof Woooof'w woof; wof wf wf wof woooof wf woof wof

to the other, by merely stepping across the deck:--where, I should like
wf wof wooof, wf woooof woooooof woooof wof woof:--wooof, W woooof woof

to know, will you obtain a better chance to study practical cetology
wf woof, woof wof woooof w woooof woooof wf wooof wooooooof woooooof

than here?
woof woof?




In the first place, you are struck by the general contrast between these
Wf wof wooof wooof, wof wof woooof wf wof wooooof woooooof wooooof wooof

heads. Both are massive enough in all conscience; but there is a certain
wooof. Woof wof wooooof woooof wf wof woooooooof; wof wooof wf w wooooof

mathematical symmetry in the Sperm Whale's which the Right Whale's sadly
woooooooooof woooooof wf wof Wooof Wooof'w wooof wof Wooof Wooof'w wooof

lacks. There is more character in the Sperm Whale's head. As you behold
wooof. Wooof wf woof wooooooof wf wof Wooof Wooof'w woof. Wf wof woooof

it, you involuntarily yield the immense superiority to him, in point
wf, wof wooooooooooof wooof wof wooooof wooooooooof wf wof, wf wooof

of pervading dignity. In the present instance, too, this dignity is
wf wooooooof wooooof. Wf wof wooooof woooooof, wof, woof wooooof wf

heightened by the pepper and salt colour of his head at the summit,
woooooooof wf wof woooof wof woof woooof wf wof woof wf wof woooof,

giving token of advanced age and large experience. In short, he is what
woooof wooof wf woooooof wof wof wooof woooooooof. Wf wooof, wf wf woof

the fishermen technically call a "grey-headed whale."
wof wooooooof wooooooooof woof w "woof-woooof wooof."




Let us now note what is least dissimilar in these heads--namely, the two
Wof wf wof woof woof wf wooof woooooooof wf wooof wooof--woooof, wof wof

most important organs, the eye and the ear. Far back on the side of
woof wooooooof woooof, wof wof wof wof wof. Wof woof wf wof woof wf

the head, and low down, near the angle of either whale's jaw, if you
wof woof, wof wof woof, woof wof wooof wf woooof wooof'w wof, wf wof

narrowly search, you will at last see a lashless eye, which you would
woooooof woooof, wof woof wf woof wof w woooooof wof, wooof wof wooof

fancy to be a young colt's eye; so out of all proportion is it to the
wooof wf wf w wooof woof'w wof; wf wof wf wof woooooooof wf wf wf wof

magnitude of the head.
wooooooof wf wof woof.




Now, from this peculiar sideway position of the whale's eyes, it is
Wof, woof woof woooooof wooooof woooooof wf wof wooof'w woof, wf wf

plain that he can never see an object which is exactly ahead, no more
wooof woof wf wof wooof wof wf woooof wooof wf wooooof wooof, wf woof

than he can one exactly astern. In a word, the position of the whale's
woof wf wof wof wooooof woooof. Wf w woof, wof woooooof wf wof wooof'w

eyes corresponds to that of a man's ears; and you may fancy, for
woof wooooooooof wf woof wf w wof'w woof; wof wof wof wooof, wof

yourself, how it would fare with you, did you sideways survey objects
woooooof, wof wf wooof woof woof wof, wof wof woooooof woooof wooooof

through your ears. You would find that you could only command some
wooooof woof woof. Wof wooof woof woof wof wooof woof wooooof woof

thirty degrees of vision in advance of the straight side-line of sight;
woooof wooooof wf woooof wf wooooof wf wof woooooof woof-woof wf wooof;

and about thirty more behind it. If your bitterest foe were walking
wof wooof woooof woof woooof wf. Wf woof wooooooof wof woof wooooof

straight towards you, with dagger uplifted in broad day, you would not
woooooof wooooof wof, woof woooof woooooof wf wooof wof, wof wooof wof

be able to see him, any more than if he were stealing upon you from
wf woof wf wof wof, wof woof woof wf wf woof woooooof woof wof woof

behind. In a word, you would have two backs, so to speak; but, at the
woooof. Wf w woof, wof wooof woof wof wooof, wf wf wooof; wof, wf wof

same time, also, two fronts (side fronts): for what is it that makes the
woof woof, woof, wof woooof (woof woooof): wof woof wf wf woof wooof wof

front of a man--what, indeed, but his eyes?
wooof wf w wof--woof, woooof, wof wof woof?




Moreover, while in most other animals that I can now think of, the eyes
Woooooof, wooof wf woof wooof wooooof woof W wof wof wooof wf, wof woof

are so planted as imperceptibly to blend their visual power, so as to
wof wf wooooof wf wooooooooooof wf wooof wooof woooof wooof, wf wf wf

produce one picture and not two to the brain; the peculiar position of
wooooof wof wooooof wof wof wof wf wof wooof; wof woooooof woooooof wf

the whale's eyes, effectually divided as they are by many cubic feet of
wof wooof'w woof, wooooooooof wooooof wf woof wof wf woof wooof woof wf

solid head, which towers between them like a great mountain separating
wooof woof, wooof woooof wooooof woof woof w wooof woooooof woooooooof

two lakes in valleys; this, of course, must wholly separate the
wof wooof wf wooooof; woof, wf woooof, woof woooof woooooof wof

impressions which each independent organ imparts. The whale, therefore,
wooooooooof wooof woof wooooooooof wooof wooooof. Wof wooof, wooooooof,

must see one distinct picture on this side, and another distinct
woof wof wof woooooof wooooof wf woof woof, wof wooooof woooooof

picture on that side; while all between must be profound darkness and
wooooof wf woof woof; wooof wof wooooof woof wf woooooof woooooof wof

nothingness to him. Man may, in effect, be said to look out on the world
wooooooooof wf wof. Wof wof, wf woooof, wf woof wf woof wof wf wof wooof

from a sentry-box with two joined sashes for his window. But with the
woof w woooof-wof woof wof woooof woooof wof wof woooof. Wof woof wof

whale, these two sashes are separately inserted, making two distinct
wooof, wooof wof woooof wof woooooooof woooooof, woooof wof woooooof

windows, but sadly impairing the view. This peculiarity of the whale's
wooooof, wof wooof wooooooof wof woof. Woof wooooooooof wf wof wooof'w

eyes is a thing always to be borne in mind in the fishery; and to be
woof wf w wooof woooof wf wf wooof wf woof wf wof wooooof; wof wf wf

remembered by the reader in some subsequent scenes.
woooooooof wf wof woooof wf woof woooooooof woooof.




A curious and most puzzling question might be started concerning this
W wooooof wof woof woooooof woooooof wooof wf wooooof woooooooof woof

visual matter as touching the Leviathan. But I must be content with a
woooof woooof wf woooooof wof Wooooooof. Wof W woof wf wooooof woof w

hint. So long as a man's eyes are open in the light, the act of seeing
woof. Wf woof wf w wof'w woof wof woof wf wof wooof, wof wof wf woooof

is involuntary; that is, he cannot then help mechanically seeing
wf wooooooooof; woof wf, wf woooof woof woof woooooooooof woooof

whatever objects are before him. Nevertheless, any one's experience
woooooof wooooof wof woooof wof. Woooooooooof, wof wof'w woooooooof

will teach him, that though he can take in an undiscriminating sweep of
woof wooof wof, woof woooof wf wof woof wf wf woooooooooooooof wooof wf

things at one glance, it is quite impossible for him, attentively,
woooof wf wof woooof, wf wf wooof woooooooof wof wof, wooooooooof,

and completely, to examine any two things--however large or however
wof woooooooof, wf wooooof wof wof woooof--wooooof wooof wf wooooof

small--at one and the same instant of time; never mind if they lie side
wooof--wf wof wof wof woof wooooof wf woof; wooof woof wf woof wof woof

by side and touch each other. But if you now come to separate these two
wf woof wof wooof woof wooof. Wof wf wof wof woof wf woooooof wooof wof

objects, and surround each by a circle of profound darkness; then, in
wooooof, wof woooooof woof wf w woooof wf woooooof woooooof; woof, wf

order to see one of them, in such a manner as to bring your mind to
wooof wf wof wof wf woof, wf woof w woooof wf wf wooof woof woof wf

bear on it, the other will be utterly excluded from your contemporary
woof wf wf, wof wooof woof wf wooooof woooooof woof woof woooooooooof

consciousness. How is it, then, with the whale? True, both his eyes,
wooooooooooof. Wof wf wf, woof, woof wof wooof? Woof, woof wof woof,

in themselves, must simultaneously act; but is his brain so much more
wf woooooooof, woof woooooooooooof wof; wof wf wof wooof wf woof woof

comprehensive, combining, and subtle than man's, that he can at the same
wooooooooooof, wooooooof, wof woooof woof wof'w, woof wf wof wf wof woof

moment of time attentively examine two distinct prospects, one on one
woooof wf woof wooooooooof wooooof wof woooooof wooooooof, wof wf wof

side of him, and the other in an exactly opposite direction? If he
woof wf wof, wof wof wooof wf wf wooooof woooooof wooooooof? Wf wf

can, then is it as marvellous a thing in him, as if a man were able
wof, woof wf wf wf woooooooof w wooof wf wof, wf wf w wof woof woof

simultaneously to go through the demonstrations of two distinct problems
woooooooooooof wf wf wooooof wof woooooooooooof wf wof woooooof woooooof

in Euclid. Nor, strictly investigated, is there any incongruity in this
wf Woooof. Wof, woooooof woooooooooof, wf wooof wof wooooooooof wf woof

comparison.
woooooooof.




It may be but an idle whim, but it has always seemed to me, that the
Wf wof wf wof wf woof woof, wof wf wof woooof woooof wf wf, woof wof

extraordinary vacillations of movement displayed by some whales when
wooooooooooof woooooooooof wf woooooof wooooooof wf woof woooof woof

beset by three or four boats; the timidity and liability to queer
wooof wf wooof wf woof wooof; wof woooooof wof wooooooof wf wooof

frights, so common to such whales; I think that all this indirectly
wooooof, wf woooof wf woof woooof; W wooof woof wof woof woooooooof

proceeds from the helpless perplexity of volition, in which their
woooooof woof wof woooooof woooooooof wf woooooof, wf wooof wooof

divided and diametrically opposite powers of vision must involve them.
wooooof wof wooooooooooof woooooof woooof wf woooof woof wooooof woof.




But the ear of the whale is full as curious as the eye. If you are an
Wof wof wof wf wof wooof wf woof wf wooooof wf wof wof. Wf wof wof wf

entire stranger to their race, you might hunt over these two heads
woooof woooooof wf wooof woof, wof wooof woof woof wooof wof wooof

for hours, and never discover that organ. The ear has no external leaf
wof wooof, wof wooof woooooof woof wooof. Wof wof wof wf woooooof woof

whatever; and into the hole itself you can hardly insert a quill, so
woooooof; wof woof wof woof woooof wof wof woooof woooof w wooof, wf

wondrously minute is it. It is lodged a little behind the eye. With
woooooooof woooof wf wf. Wf wf woooof w woooof woooof wof wof. Woof

respect to their ears, this important difference is to be observed
wooooof wf wooof woof, woof wooooooof woooooooof wf wf wf woooooof

between the sperm whale and the right. While the ear of the former has
wooooof wof wooof wooof wof wof wooof. Wooof wof wof wf wof woooof wof

an external opening, that of the latter is entirely and evenly covered
wf woooooof wooooof, woof wf wof woooof wf woooooof wof woooof wooooof

over with a membrane, so as to be quite imperceptible from without.
woof woof w woooooof, wf wf wf wf wooof wooooooooooof woof wooooof.




Is it not curious, that so vast a being as the whale should see the
Wf wf wof wooooof, woof wf woof w wooof wf wof wooof woooof wof wof

world through so small an eye, and hear the thunder through an ear which
wooof wooooof wf wooof wf wof, wof woof wof wooooof wooooof wf wof wooof

is smaller than a hare's? But if his eyes were broad as the lens of
wf wooooof woof w woof'w? Wof wf wof woof woof wooof wf wof woof wf

Herschel's great telescope; and his ears capacious as the porches of
Woooooof'w wooof wooooooof; wof wof woof wooooooof wf wof wooooof wf

cathedrals; would that make him any longer of sight, or sharper of
woooooooof; wooof woof woof wof wof woooof wf wooof, wf wooooof wf

hearing? Not at all.--Why then do you try to "enlarge" your mind?
wooooof? Wof wf wof.--Wof woof wf wof wof wf "wooooof" woof woof?

Subtilize it.
Wooooooof wf.




Let us now with whatever levers and steam-engines we have at hand, cant
Wof wf wof woof woooooof woooof wof wooof-wooooof wf woof wf woof, woof

over the sperm whale's head, that it may lie bottom up; then, ascending
woof wof wooof wooof'w woof, woof wf wof wof woooof wf; woof, wooooooof

by a ladder to the summit, have a peep down the mouth; and were it not
wf w woooof wf wof woooof, woof w woof woof wof wooof; wof woof wf wof

that the body is now completely separated from it, with a lantern we
woof wof woof wf wof woooooooof wooooooof woof wf, woof w wooooof wf

might descend into the great Kentucky Mammoth Cave of his stomach. But
wooof wooooof woof wof wooof Woooooof Wooooof Woof wf wof wooooof. Wof

let us hold on here by this tooth, and look about us where we are. What
wof wf woof wf woof wf woof wooof, wof woof wooof wf wooof wf wof. Woof

a really beautiful and chaste-looking mouth! from floor to ceiling,
w woooof wooooooof wof woooof-wooooof wooof! woof wooof wf wooooof,

lined, or rather papered with a glistening white membrane, glossy as
wooof, wf woooof wooooof woof w woooooooof wooof woooooof, woooof wf

bridal satins.
woooof woooof.




But come out now, and look at this portentous lower jaw, which seems
Wof woof wof wof, wof woof wf woof woooooooof wooof wof, wooof wooof

like the long narrow lid of an immense snuff-box, with the hinge at one
woof wof woof woooof wof wf wf wooooof wooof-wof, woof wof wooof wf wof

end, instead of one side. If you pry it up, so as to get it overhead,
wof, wooooof wf wof woof. Wf wof wof wf wf, wf wf wf wof wf woooooof,

and expose its rows of teeth, it seems a terrific portcullis; and such,
wof woooof wof woof wf wooof, wf wooof w woooooof woooooooof; wof woof,

alas! it proves to many a poor wight in the fishery, upon whom these
woof! wf woooof wf woof w woof wooof wf wof wooooof, woof woof wooof

spikes fall with impaling force. But far more terrible is it to behold,
woooof woof woof woooooof wooof. Wof wof woof woooooof wf wf wf woooof,

when fathoms down in the sea, you see some sulky whale, floating there
woof wooooof woof wf wof wof, wof wof woof wooof wooof, woooooof wooof

suspended, with his prodigious jaw, some fifteen feet long, hanging
wooooooof, woof wof woooooooof wof, woof wooooof woof woof, wooooof

straight down at right-angles with his body, for all the world like a
woooooof woof wf wooof-woooof woof wof woof, wof wof wof wooof woof w

ship's jib-boom. This whale is not dead; he is only dispirited; out of
woof'w wof-woof. Woof wooof wf wof woof; wf wf woof woooooooof; wof wf

sorts, perhaps; hypochondriac; and so supine, that the hinges of his
wooof, wooooof; wooooooooooof; wof wf woooof, woof wof woooof wf wof

jaw have relaxed, leaving him there in that ungainly sort of plight, a
wof woof wooooof, wooooof wof wooof wf woof woooooof woof wf woooof, w

reproach to all his tribe, who must, no doubt, imprecate lock-jaws upon
woooooof wf wof wof wooof, wof woof, wf wooof, wooooooof woof-woof woof

him.
wof.




In most cases this lower jaw--being easily unhinged by a practised
Wf woof wooof woof wooof wof--wooof woooof woooooof wf w wooooooof

artist--is disengaged and hoisted on deck for the purpose of extracting
woooof--wf woooooooof wof wooooof wf woof wof wof wooooof wf woooooooof

the ivory teeth, and furnishing a supply of that hard white whalebone
wof wooof wooof, wof woooooooof w woooof wf woof woof wooof wooooooof

with which the fishermen fashion all sorts of curious articles,
woof wooof wof wooooooof wooooof wof wooof wf wooooof woooooof,

including canes, umbrella-stocks, and handles to riding-whips.
wooooooof wooof, woooooof-woooof, wof wooooof wf woooof-wooof.




With a long, weary hoist the jaw is dragged on board, as if it were an
Woof w woof, wooof wooof wof wof wf wooooof wf wooof, wf wf wf woof wf

anchor; and when the proper time comes--some few days after the other
woooof; wof woof wof woooof woof wooof--woof wof woof wooof wof wooof

work--Queequeg, Daggoo, and Tashtego, being all accomplished dentists,
woof--Woooooof, Woooof, wof Woooooof, wooof wof woooooooooof woooooof,

are set to drawing teeth. With a keen cutting-spade, Queequeg lances
wof wof wf wooooof wooof. Woof w woof wooooof-wooof, Woooooof woooof

the gums; then the jaw is lashed down to ringbolts, and a tackle being
wof woof; woof wof wof wf woooof woof wf wooooooof, wof w woooof wooof

rigged from aloft, they drag out these teeth, as Michigan oxen drag
woooof woof wooof, woof woof wof wooof wooof, wf Woooooof woof woof

stumps of old oaks out of wild wood lands. There are generally forty-two
woooof wf wof woof wof wf woof woof wooof. Wooof wof wooooooof wooof-wof

teeth in all; in old whales, much worn down, but undecayed; nor filled
wooof wf wof; wf wof woooof, woof woof woof, wof wooooooof; wof woooof

after our artificial fashion. The jaw is afterwards sawn into slabs, and
wooof wof woooooooof wooooof. Wof wof wf woooooooof woof woof wooof, wof

piled away like joists for building houses.
wooof woof woof woooof wof woooooof woooof.










CHAPTER 75. The Right Whale's Head--Contrasted View.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Wooof Wooof'w Woof--Woooooooof Woof.







Crossing the deck, let us now have a good long look at the Right Whale's
Woooooof wof woof, wof wf wof woof w woof woof woof wf wof Wooof Wooof'w

head.
woof.




As in general shape the noble Sperm Whale's head may be compared to a
Wf wf wooooof wooof wof wooof Wooof Wooof'w woof wof wf woooooof wf w

Roman war-chariot (especially in front, where it is so broadly rounded);
Wooof wof-wooooof (woooooooof wf wooof, wooof wf wf wf wooooof wooooof);

so, at a broad view, the Right Whale's head bears a rather inelegant
wf, wf w wooof woof, wof Wooof Wooof'w woof wooof w woooof wooooooof

resemblance to a gigantic galliot-toed shoe. Two hundred years ago an
wooooooooof wf w woooooof wooooof-woof woof. Wof wooooof wooof wof wf

old Dutch voyager likened its shape to that of a shoemaker's last. And
wof Wooof wooooof wooooof wof wooof wf woof wf w wooooooof'w woof. Wof

in this same last or shoe, that old woman of the nursery tale, with
wf woof woof woof wf woof, woof wof wooof wf wof wooooof woof, woof

the swarming brood, might very comfortably be lodged, she and all her
wof woooooof wooof, wooof woof wooooooooof wf woooof, wof wof wof wof

progeny.
wooooof.




But as you come nearer to this great head it begins to assume different
Wof wf wof woof woooof wf woof wooof woof wf woooof wf woooof wooooooof

aspects, according to your point of view. If you stand on its summit and
wooooof, wooooooof wf woof wooof wf woof. Wf wof wooof wf wof woooof wof

look at these two F-shaped spoutholes, you would take the whole head
woof wf wooof wof W-woooof woooooooof, wof wooof woof wof wooof woof

for an enormous bass-viol, and these spiracles, the apertures in its
wof wf woooooof woof-woof, wof wooof wooooooof, wof wooooooof wf wof

sounding-board. Then, again, if you fix your eye upon this strange,
woooooof-wooof. Woof, wooof, wf wof wof woof wof woof woof wooooof,

crested, comb-like incrustation on the top of the mass--this green,
wooooof, woof-woof woooooooooof wf wof wof wf wof woof--woof wooof,

barnacled thing, which the Greenlanders call the "crown," and the
wooooooof wooof, wooof wof Woooooooooof woof wof "wooof," wof wof

Southern fishers the "bonnet" of the Right Whale; fixing your eyes
Woooooof wooooof wof "woooof" wf wof Wooof Wooof; woooof woof woof

solely on this, you would take the head for the trunk of some huge oak,
woooof wf woof, wof wooof woof wof woof wof wof wooof wf woof woof wof,

with a bird's nest in its crotch. At any rate, when you watch those live
woof w woof'w woof wf wof woooof. Wf wof woof, woof wof wooof wooof woof

crabs that nestle here on this bonnet, such an idea will be almost
wooof woof woooof woof wf woof woooof, woof wf woof woof wf woooof

sure to occur to you; unless, indeed, your fancy has been fixed by the
woof wf wooof wf wof; woooof, woooof, woof wooof wof woof wooof wf wof

technical term "crown" also bestowed upon it; in which case you will
wooooooof woof "wooof" woof woooooof woof wf; wf wooof woof wof woof

take great interest in thinking how this mighty monster is actually a
woof wooof woooooof wf woooooof wof woof woooof wooooof wf woooooof w

diademed king of the sea, whose green crown has been put together for
woooooof woof wf wof wof, wooof wooof wooof wof woof wof woooooof wof

him in this marvellous manner. But if this whale be a king, he is a very
wof wf woof woooooooof woooof. Wof wf woof wooof wf w woof, wf wf w woof

sulky looking fellow to grace a diadem. Look at that hanging lower lip!
wooof wooooof woooof wf wooof w woooof. Woof wf woof wooooof wooof wof!

what a huge sulk and pout is there! a sulk and pout, by carpenter's
woof w woof woof wof woof wf wooof! w woof wof woof, wf wooooooof'w

measurement, about twenty feet long and five feet deep; a sulk and pout
wooooooooof, wooof woooof woof woof wof woof woof woof; w woof wof woof

that will yield you some 500 gallons of oil and more.
woof woof wooof wof woof wof wooooof wf wof wof woof.




A great pity, now, that this unfortunate whale should be hare-lipped.
W wooof woof, wof, woof woof wooooooooof wooof woooof wf woof-woooof.

The fissure is about a foot across. Probably the mother during an
Wof wooooof wf wooof w woof woooof. Woooooof wof woooof woooof wf

important interval was sailing down the Peruvian coast, when earthquakes
wooooooof woooooof wof wooooof woof wof Woooooof wooof, woof wooooooooof

caused the beach to gape. Over this lip, as over a slippery threshold,
woooof wof wooof wf woof. Woof woof wof, wf woof w woooooof wooooooof,

we now slide into the mouth. Upon my word were I at Mackinaw, I should
wf wof wooof woof wof wooof. Woof wf woof woof W wf Woooooof, W woooof

take this to be the inside of an Indian wigwam. Good Lord! is this the
woof woof wf wf wof woooof wf wf Woooof woooof. Woof Woof! wf woof wof

road that Jonah went? The roof is about twelve feet high, and runs to a
woof woof Wooof woof? Wof woof wf wooof woooof woof woof, wof woof wf w

pretty sharp angle, as if there were a regular ridge-pole there; while
woooof wooof wooof, wf wf wooof woof w wooooof wooof-woof wooof; wooof

these ribbed, arched, hairy sides, present us with those wondrous, half
wooof woooof, woooof, wooof wooof, wooooof wf woof wooof woooooof, woof

vertical, scimetar-shaped slats of whalebone, say three hundred on a
woooooof, woooooof-woooof wooof wf wooooooof, wof wooof wooooof wf w

side, which depending from the upper part of the head or crown
woof, wooof wooooooof woof wof wooof woof wf wof woof wf wooof

bone, form those Venetian blinds which have elsewhere been cursorily
woof, woof wooof Woooooof woooof wooof woof wooooooof woof wooooooof

mentioned. The edges of these bones are fringed with hairy fibres,
wooooooof. Wof wooof wf wooof wooof wof wooooof woof wooof woooof,

through which the Right Whale strains the water, and in whose
wooooof wooof wof Wooof Wooof wooooof wof wooof, wof wf wooof

intricacies he retains the small fish, when openmouthed he goes through
wooooooooof wf wooooof wof wooof woof, woof wooooooooof wf woof wooooof

the seas of brit in feeding time. In the central blinds of bone, as they
wof woof wf woof wf wooooof woof. Wf wof wooooof woooof wf woof, wf woof

stand in their natural order, there are certain curious marks, curves,
wooof wf wooof wooooof wooof, wooof wof wooooof wooooof wooof, woooof,

hollows, and ridges, whereby some whalemen calculate the creature's age,
wooooof, wof woooof, wooooof woof woooooof wooooooof wof woooooof'w wof,

as the age of an oak by its circular rings. Though the certainty of this
wf wof wof wf wf wof wf wof woooooof wooof. Woooof wof wooooooof wf woof

criterion is far from demonstrable, yet it has the savor of analogical
wooooooof wf wof woof woooooooooof, wof wf wof wof wooof wf woooooooof

probability. At any rate, if we yield to it, we must grant a far greater
wooooooooof. Wf wof woof, wf wf wooof wf wf, wf woof wooof w wof wooooof

age to the Right Whale than at first glance will seem reasonable.
wof wf wof Wooof Wooof woof wf wooof woooof woof woof woooooooof.




In old times, there seem to have prevailed the most curious fancies
Wf wof wooof, wooof woof wf woof wooooooof wof woof wooooof wooooof

concerning these blinds. One voyager in Purchas calls them the wondrous
woooooooof wooof woooof. Wof wooooof wf Wooooof wooof woof wof woooooof

"whiskers" inside of the whale's mouth;* another, "hogs' bristles"; a
"woooooof" woooof wf wof wooof'w wooof;* wooooof, "woof' woooooof"; w

third old gentleman in Hackluyt uses the following elegant language:
wooof wof wooooooof wf Woooooof woof wof wooooooof wooooof woooooof:

"There are about two hundred and fifty fins growing on each side of his
"Wooof wof wooof wof wooooof wof wooof woof wooooof wf woof woof wf wof

upper CHOP, which arch over his tongue on each side of his mouth."
wooof WOOF, wooof woof woof wof woooof wf woof woof wf wof wooof."







*This reminds us that the Right Whale really has a sort of whisker, or
*Woof wooooof wf woof wof Wooof Wooof woooof wof w woof wf wooooof, wf

rather a moustache, consisting of a few scattered white hairs on the
woooof w wooooooof, woooooooof wf w wof wooooooof wooof wooof wf wof

upper part of the outer end of the lower jaw. Sometimes these
wooof woof wf wof wooof wof wf wof wooof wof. Wooooooof wooof

tufts impart a rather brigandish expression to his otherwise solemn
wooof woooof w woooof woooooooof woooooooof wf wof wooooooof woooof

countenance.
wooooooooof.







As every one knows, these same "hogs' bristles," "fins," "whiskers,"
Wf wooof wof wooof, wooof woof "woof' woooooof," "woof," "woooooof,"

"blinds," or whatever you please, furnish to the ladies their busks and
"woooof," wf woooooof wof woooof, wooooof wf wof woooof wooof wooof wof

other stiffening contrivances. But in this particular, the demand has
wooof woooooooof woooooooooof. Wof wf woof woooooooof, wof woooof wof

long been on the decline. It was in Queen Anne's time that the bone was
woof woof wf wof wooooof. Wf wof wf Wooof Woof'w woof woof wof woof wof

in its glory, the farthingale being then all the fashion. And as those
wf wof wooof, wof wooooooooof wooof woof wof wof wooooof. Wof wf wooof

ancient dames moved about gaily, though in the jaws of the whale, as
wooooof wooof wooof wooof wooof, woooof wf wof woof wf wof wooof, wf

you may say; even so, in a shower, with the like thoughtlessness, do we
wof wof wof; woof wf, wf w woooof, woof wof woof wooooooooooooof, wf wf

nowadays fly under the same jaws for protection; the umbrella being a
woooooof wof wooof wof woof woof wof woooooooof; wof woooooof wooof w

tent spread over the same bone.
woof woooof woof wof woof woof.




But now forget all about blinds and whiskers for a moment, and, standing
Wof wof woooof wof wooof woooof wof woooooof wof w woooof, wof, woooooof

in the Right Whale's mouth, look around you afresh. Seeing all these
wf wof Wooof Wooof'w wooof, woof woooof wof woooof. Woooof wof wooof

colonnades of bone so methodically ranged about, would you not think
woooooooof wf woof wf woooooooooof woooof wooof, wooof wof wof wooof

you were inside of the great Haarlem organ, and gazing upon its
wof woof woooof wf wof wooof Wooooof wooof, wof woooof woof wof

thousand pipes? For a carpet to the organ we have a rug of the softest
woooooof wooof? Wof w woooof wf wof wooof wf woof w wof wf wof wooooof

Turkey--the tongue, which is glued, as it were, to the floor of the
Woooof--wof woooof, wooof wf wooof, wf wf woof, wf wof wooof wf wof

mouth. It is very fat and tender, and apt to tear in pieces in hoisting
wooof. Wf wf woof wof wof woooof, wof wof wf woof wf woooof wf woooooof

it on deck. This particular tongue now before us; at a passing glance I
wf wf woof. Woof woooooooof woooof wof woooof wf; wf w wooooof woooof W

should say it was a six-barreler; that is, it will yield you about that
woooof wof wf wof w wof-woooooof; woof wf, wf woof wooof wof wooof woof

amount of oil.
woooof wf wof.




Ere this, you must have plainly seen the truth of what I started
Wof woof, wof woof woof wooooof woof wof wooof wf woof W wooooof

with--that the Sperm Whale and the Right Whale have almost entirely
woof--woof wof Wooof Wooof wof wof Wooof Wooof woof woooof woooooof

different heads. To sum up, then: in the Right Whale's there is no great
wooooooof wooof. Wf wof wf, woof: wf wof Wooof Wooof'w wooof wf wf wooof

well of sperm; no ivory teeth at all; no long, slender mandible of a
woof wf wooof; wf wooof wooof wf wof; wf woof, wooooof woooooof wf w

lower jaw, like the Sperm Whale's. Nor in the Sperm Whale are there any
wooof wof, woof wof Wooof Wooof'w. Wof wf wof Wooof Wooof wof wooof wof

of those blinds of bone; no huge lower lip; and scarcely anything of a
wf wooof woooof wf woof; wf woof wooof wof; wof woooooof woooooof wf w

tongue. Again, the Right Whale has two external spout-holes, the Sperm
woooof. Wooof, wof Wooof Wooof wof wof woooooof wooof-wooof, wof Wooof

Whale only one.
Wooof woof wof.




Look your last, now, on these venerable hooded heads, while they yet lie
Woof woof woof, wof, wf wooof wooooooof woooof wooof, wooof woof wof wof

together; for one will soon sink, unrecorded, in the sea; the other will
woooooof; wof wof woof woof woof, woooooooof, wf wof wof; wof wooof woof

not be very long in following.
wof wf woof woof wf wooooooof.




Can you catch the expression of the Sperm Whale's there? It is the same
Wof wof wooof wof woooooooof wf wof Wooof Wooof'w wooof? Wf wf wof woof

he died with, only some of the longer wrinkles in the forehead seem
wf woof woof, woof woof wf wof woooof woooooof wf wof woooooof woof

now faded away. I think his broad brow to be full of a prairie-like
wof wooof woof. W wooof wof wooof woof wf wf woof wf w wooooof-woof

placidity, born of a speculative indifference as to death. But mark the
wooooooof, woof wf w wooooooooof woooooooooof wf wf wooof. Wof woof wof

other head's expression. See that amazing lower lip, pressed by accident
wooof woof'w woooooooof. Wof woof wooooof wooof wof, wooooof wf woooooof

against the vessel's side, so as firmly to embrace the jaw. Does not
wooooof wof woooof'w woof, wf wf woooof wf wooooof wof wof. Woof wof

this whole head seem to speak of an enormous practical resolution in
woof wooof woof woof wf wooof wf wf woooooof wooooooof woooooooof wf

facing death? This Right Whale I take to have been a Stoic; the Sperm
woooof wooof? Woof Wooof Wooof W woof wf woof woof w Wooof; wof Wooof

Whale, a Platonian, who might have taken up Spinoza in his latter years.
Wooof, w Wooooooof, wof wooof woof wooof wf Wooooof wf wof woooof wooof.










CHAPTER 76. The Battering-Ram.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Wooooooof-Wof.







Ere quitting, for the nonce, the Sperm Whale's head, I would have
Wof woooooof, wof wof wooof, wof Wooof Wooof'w woof, W wooof woof

you, as a sensible physiologist, simply--particularly remark its front
wof, wf w woooooof woooooooooof, woooof--woooooooooof woooof wof wooof

aspect, in all its compacted collectedness. I would have you investigate
woooof, wf wof wof wooooooof wooooooooooof. W wooof woof wof wooooooooof

it now with the sole view of forming to yourself some unexaggerated,
wf wof woof wof woof woof wf wooooof wf woooooof woof wooooooooooof,

intelligent estimate of whatever battering-ram power may be lodged
wooooooooof woooooof wf woooooof wooooooof-wof wooof wof wf woooof

there. Here is a vital point; for you must either satisfactorily settle
wooof. Woof wf w wooof wooof; wof wof woof woooof woooooooooooof woooof

this matter with yourself, or for ever remain an infidel as to one of
woof woooof woof woooooof, wf wof woof woooof wf wooooof wf wf wof wf

the most appalling, but not the less true events, perhaps anywhere to be
wof woof wooooooof, wof wof wof woof woof woooof, wooooof woooooof wf wf

found in all recorded history.
wooof wf wof woooooof wooooof.




You observe that in the ordinary swimming position of the Sperm Whale,
Wof wooooof woof wf wof woooooof woooooof woooooof wf wof Wooof Wooof,

the front of his head presents an almost wholly vertical plane to the
wof wooof wf wof woof woooooof wf woooof woooof woooooof wooof wf wof

water; you observe that the lower part of that front slopes considerably
wooof; wof wooooof woof wof wooof woof wf woof wooof woooof woooooooooof

backwards, so as to furnish more of a retreat for the long socket which
wooooooof, wf wf wf wooooof woof wf w wooooof wof wof woof woooof wooof

receives the boom-like lower jaw; you observe that the mouth is entirely
woooooof wof woof-woof wooof wof; wof wooooof woof wof wooof wf woooooof

under the head, much in the same way, indeed, as though your own mouth
wooof wof woof, woof wf wof woof wof, woooof, wf woooof woof wof wooof

were entirely under your chin. Moreover you observe that the whale has
woof woooooof wooof woof woof. Woooooof wof wooooof woof wof wooof wof

no external nose; and that what nose he has--his spout hole--is on the
wf woooooof woof; wof woof woof woof wf wof--wof wooof woof--wf wf wof

top of his head; you observe that his eyes and ears are at the sides
wof wf wof woof; wof wooooof woof wof woof wof woof wof wf wof wooof

of his head, nearly one third of his entire length from the front.
wf wof woof, woooof wof wooof wf wof woooof woooof woof wof wooof.

Wherefore, you must now have perceived that the front of the Sperm
Wooooooof, wof woof wof woof wooooooof woof wof wooof wf wof Wooof

Whale's head is a dead, blind wall, without a single organ or tender
Wooof'w woof wf w woof, wooof woof, wooooof w woooof wooof wf woooof

prominence of any sort whatsoever. Furthermore, you are now to consider
woooooooof wf wof woof woooooooof. Wooooooooof, wof wof wof wf woooooof

that only in the extreme, lower, backward sloping part of the front of
woof woof wf wof wooooof, wooof, woooooof wooooof woof wf wof wooof wf

the head, is there the slightest vestige of bone; and not till you
wof woof, wf wooof wof wooooooof wooooof wf woof; wof wof woof wof

get near twenty feet from the forehead do you come to the full cranial
wof woof woooof woof woof wof woooooof wf wof woof wf wof woof wooooof

development. So that this whole enormous boneless mass is as one wad.
wooooooooof. Wf woof woof wooof woooooof woooooof woof wf wf wof wof.

Finally, though, as will soon be revealed, its contents partly comprise
Wooooof, woooof, wf woof woof wf woooooof, wof woooooof woooof woooooof

the most delicate oil; yet, you are now to be apprised of the nature of
wof woof woooooof wof; wof, wof wof wof wf wf woooooof wf wof woooof wf

the substance which so impregnably invests all that apparent effeminacy.
wof wooooooof wooof wf wooooooooof wooooof wof woof woooooof woooooooof.

In some previous place I have described to you how the blubber wraps the
Wf woof woooooof wooof W woof wooooooof wf wof wof wof wooooof wooof wof

body of the whale, as the rind wraps an orange. Just so with the head;
woof wf wof wooof, wf wof woof wooof wf woooof. Woof wf woof wof woof;

but with this difference: about the head this envelope, though not so
wof woof woof woooooooof: wooof wof woof woof woooooof, woooof wof wf

thick, is of a boneless toughness, inestimable by any man who has not
wooof, wf wf w woooooof wooooooof, wooooooooof wf wof wof wof wof wof

handled it. The severest pointed harpoon, the sharpest lance darted by
wooooof wf. Wof woooooof wooooof wooooof, wof woooooof wooof woooof wf

the strongest human arm, impotently rebounds from it. It is as though
wof wooooooof wooof wof, woooooooof woooooof woof wf. Wf wf wf woooof

the forehead of the Sperm Whale were paved with horses' hoofs. I do not
wof woooooof wf wof Wooof Wooof woof wooof woof woooof' wooof. W wf wof

think that any sensation lurks in it.
wooof woof wof wooooooof wooof wf wf.




Bethink yourself also of another thing. When two large, loaded Indiamen
Wooooof woooooof woof wf wooooof wooof. Woof wof wooof, woooof Woooooof

chance to crowd and crush towards each other in the docks, what do the
woooof wf wooof wof wooof wooooof woof wooof wf wof wooof, woof wf wof

sailors do? They do not suspend between them, at the point of coming
wooooof wf? Woof wf wof wooooof wooooof woof, wf wof wooof wf woooof

contact, any merely hard substance, like iron or wood. No, they hold
wooooof, wof woooof woof wooooooof, woof woof wf woof. Wf, woof woof

there a large, round wad of tow and cork, enveloped in the thickest
wooof w wooof, wooof wof wf wof wof woof, wooooooof wf wof woooooof

and toughest of ox-hide. That bravely and uninjured takes the jam which
wof woooooof wf wf-woof. Woof wooooof wof wooooooof wooof wof wof wooof

would have snapped all their oaken handspikes and iron crow-bars. By
wooof woof wooooof wof wooof wooof woooooooof wof woof woof-woof. Wf

itself this sufficiently illustrates the obvious fact I drive at. But
woooof woof woooooooooof wooooooooof wof wooooof woof W wooof wf. Wof

supplementary to this, it has hypothetically occurred to me, that
wooooooooooof wf woof, wf wof woooooooooooof woooooof wf wf, woof

as ordinary fish possess what is called a swimming bladder in them,
wf woooooof woof wooooof woof wf woooof w woooooof wooooof wf woof,

capable, at will, of distension or contraction; and as the Sperm Whale,
wooooof, wf woof, wf woooooooof wf wooooooooof; wof wf wof Wooof Wooof,

as far as I know, has no such provision in him; considering, too,
wf wof wf W woof, wof wf woof wooooooof wf wof; wooooooooof, wof,

the otherwise inexplicable manner in which he now depresses his head
wof wooooooof woooooooooof woooof wf wooof wf wof wooooooof wof woof

altogether beneath the surface, and anon swims with it high elevated out
woooooooof wooooof wof wooooof, wof woof wooof woof wf woof woooooof wof

of the water; considering the unobstructed elasticity of its envelope;
wf wof wooof; wooooooooof wof woooooooooof woooooooof wf wof woooooof;

considering the unique interior of his head; it has hypothetically
wooooooooof wof woooof woooooof wf wof woof; wf wof woooooooooooof

occurred to me, I say, that those mystical lung-celled honeycombs there
woooooof wf wf, W wof, woof wooof woooooof woof-woooof woooooooof wooof

may possibly have some hitherto unknown and unsuspected connexion with
wof woooooof woof woof woooooof wooooof wof wooooooooof wooooooof woof

the outer air, so as to be susceptible to atmospheric distension and
wof wooof wof, wf wf wf wf wooooooooof wf wooooooooof woooooooof wof

contraction. If this be so, fancy the irresistibleness of that might, to
wooooooooof. Wf woof wf wf, wooof wof woooooooooooooof wf woof wooof, wf

which the most impalpable and destructive of all elements contributes.
wooof wof woof woooooooof wof wooooooooof wf wof woooooof wooooooooof.




Now, mark. Unerringly impelling this dead, impregnable, uninjurable
Wof, woof. Woooooooof wooooooof woof woof, wooooooooof, wooooooooof

wall, and this most buoyant thing within; there swims behind it all a
woof, wof woof woof wooooof wooof woooof; wooof wooof woooof wf wof w

mass of tremendous life, only to be adequately estimated as piled wood
woof wf woooooooof woof, woof wf wf woooooooof wooooooof wf wooof woof

is--by the cord; and all obedient to one volition, as the smallest
wf--wf wof woof; wof wof woooooof wf wof woooooof, wf wof woooooof

insect. So that when I shall hereafter detail to you all the
woooof. Wf woof woof W wooof wooooooof woooof wf wof wof wof

specialities and concentrations of potency everywhere lurking in this
woooooooooof wof woooooooooooof wf wooooof woooooooof wooooof wf woof

expansive monster; when I shall show you some of his more inconsiderable
wooooooof wooooof; woof W wooof woof wof woof wf wof woof woooooooooooof

braining feats; I trust you will have renounced all ignorant
woooooof wooof; W wooof wof woof woof wooooooof wof woooooof

incredulity, and be ready to abide by this; that though the Sperm Whale
wooooooooof, wof wf wooof wf wooof wf woof; woof woooof wof Wooof Wooof

stove a passage through the Isthmus of Darien, and mixed the Atlantic
wooof w wooooof wooooof wof Wooooof wf Woooof, wof wooof wof Woooooof

with the Pacific, you would not elevate one hair of your eye-brow. For
woof wof Wooooof, wof wooof wof wooooof wof woof wf woof wof-woof. Wof

unless you own the whale, you are but a provincial and sentimentalist
woooof wof wof wof wooof, wof wof wof w woooooooof wof woooooooooooof

in Truth. But clear Truth is a thing for salamander giants only to
wf Wooof. Wof wooof Wooof wf w wooof wof woooooooof woooof woof wf

encounter; how small the chances for the provincials then? What befell
wooooooof; wof wooof wof wooooof wof wof wooooooooof woof? Woof woooof

the weakling youth lifting the dread goddess's veil at Lais?
wof woooooof wooof wooooof wof wooof wooooof'w woof wf Woof?










CHAPTER 77. The Great Heidelburgh Tun.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Wooof Wooooooooof Wof.







Now comes the Baling of the Case. But to comprehend it aright, you must
Wof wooof wof Woooof wf wof Woof. Wof wf woooooooof wf woooof, wof woof

know something of the curious internal structure of the thing operated
woof wooooooof wf wof wooooof woooooof wooooooof wf wof wooof woooooof

upon.
woof.




Regarding the Sperm Whale's head as a solid oblong, you may, on an
Wooooooof wof Wooof Wooof'w woof wf w wooof woooof, wof wof, wf wf

inclined plane, sideways divide it into two quoins,* whereof the lower
woooooof wooof, woooooof woooof wf woof wof woooof,* wooooof wof wooof

is the bony structure, forming the cranium and jaws, and the upper an
wf wof woof wooooooof, wooooof wof wooooof wof woof, wof wof wooof wf

unctuous mass wholly free from bones; its broad forward end forming the
woooooof woof woooof woof woof wooof; wof wooof wooooof wof wooooof wof

expanded vertical apparent forehead of the whale. At the middle of the
woooooof woooooof woooooof woooooof wf wof wooof. Wf wof woooof wf wof

forehead horizontally subdivide this upper quoin, and then you have two
woooooof woooooooooof wooooooof woof wooof wooof, wof woof wof woof wof

almost equal parts, which before were naturally divided by an internal
woooof wooof wooof, wooof woooof woof wooooooof wooooof wf wf woooooof

wall of a thick tendinous substance.
woof wf w wooof wooooooof wooooooof.







*Quoin is not a Euclidean term. It belongs to the pure nautical
*Wooof wf wof w Wooooooof woof. Wf wooooof wf wof woof woooooof

mathematics. I know not that it has been defined before. A quoin is a
wooooooooof. W woof wof woof wf wof woof wooooof woooof. W wooof wf w

solid which differs from a wedge in having its sharp end formed by the
wooof wooof wooooof woof w wooof wf woooof wof wooof wof woooof wf wof

steep inclination of one side, instead of the mutual tapering of both
wooof wooooooooof wf wof woof, wooooof wf wof woooof woooooof wf woof

sides.
wooof.







The lower subdivided part, called the junk, is one immense honeycomb
Wof wooof woooooooof woof, woooof wof woof, wf wof wooooof wooooooof

of oil, formed by the crossing and recrossing, into ten thousand
wf wof, woooof wf wof woooooof wof woooooooof, woof wof woooooof

infiltrated cells, of tough elastic white fibres throughout its whole
wooooooooof wooof, wf wooof wooooof wooof woooof woooooooof wof wooof

extent. The upper part, known as the Case, may be regarded as the great
woooof. Wof wooof woof, wooof wf wof Woof, wof wf woooooof wf wof wooof

Heidelburgh Tun of the Sperm Whale. And as that famous great tierce is
Wooooooooof Wof wf wof Wooof Wooof. Wof wf woof woooof wooof woooof wf

mystically carved in front, so the whale's vast plaited forehead forms
woooooooof woooof wf wooof, wf wof wooof'w woof wooooof woooooof wooof

innumerable strange devices for the emblematical adornment of his
wooooooooof wooooof wooooof wof wof woooooooooof wooooooof wf wof

wondrous tun. Moreover, as that of Heidelburgh was always replenished
woooooof wof. Woooooof, wf woof wf Wooooooooof wof woooof wooooooooof

with the most excellent of the wines of the Rhenish valleys, so the tun
woof wof woof wooooooof wf wof wooof wf wof Wooooof wooooof, wf wof wof

of the whale contains by far the most precious of all his oily vintages;
wf wof wooof woooooof wf wof wof woof woooooof wf wof wof woof woooooof;

namely, the highly-prized spermaceti, in its absolutely pure, limpid,
woooof, wof woooof-woooof woooooooof, wf wof woooooooof woof, woooof,

and odoriferous state. Nor is this precious substance found unalloyed
wof wooooooooof wooof. Wof wf woof woooooof wooooooof wooof wooooooof

in any other part of the creature. Though in life it remains perfectly
wf wof wooof woof wf wof woooooof. Woooof wf woof wf wooooof wooooooof

fluid, yet, upon exposure to the air, after death, it soon begins to
wooof, wof, woof woooooof wf wof wof, wooof wooof, wf woof woooof wf

concrete; sending forth beautiful crystalline shoots, as when the
woooooof; wooooof wooof wooooooof wooooooooof woooof, wf woof wof

first thin delicate ice is just forming in water. A large whale's
wooof woof woooooof wof wf woof wooooof wf wooof. W wooof wooof'w

case generally yields about five hundred gallons of sperm, though from
woof wooooooof woooof wooof woof wooooof wooooof wf wooof, woooof woof

unavoidable circumstances, considerable of it is spilled, leaks, and
wooooooooof wooooooooooof, woooooooooof wf wf wf wooooof, wooof, wof

dribbles away, or is otherwise irrevocably lost in the ticklish business
woooooof woof, wf wf wooooooof wooooooooof woof wf wof woooooof woooooof

of securing what you can.
wf woooooof woof wof wof.




I know not with what fine and costly material the Heidelburgh Tun
W woof wof woof woof woof wof woooof woooooof wof Wooooooooof Wof

was coated within, but in superlative richness that coating could not
wof woooof woooof, wof wf wooooooooof woooooof woof wooooof wooof wof

possibly have compared with the silken pearl-coloured membrane, like the
woooooof woof woooooof woof wof woooof wooof-woooooof woooooof, woof wof

lining of a fine pelisse, forming the inner surface of the Sperm Whale's
woooof wf w woof wooooof, wooooof wof wooof wooooof wf wof Wooof Wooof'w

case.
woof.




It will have been seen that the Heidelburgh Tun of the Sperm Whale
Wf woof woof woof woof woof wof Wooooooooof Wof wf wof Wooof Wooof

embraces the entire length of the entire top of the head; and since--as
woooooof wof woooof woooof wf wof woooof wof wf wof woof; wof wooof--wf

has been elsewhere set forth--the head embraces one third of the whole
wof woof wooooooof wof wooof--wof woof woooooof wof wooof wf wof wooof

length of the creature, then setting that length down at eighty feet for
woooof wf wof woooooof, woof wooooof woof woooof woof wf woooof woof wof

a good sized whale, you have more than twenty-six feet for the depth
w woof wooof wooof, wof woof woof woof woooof-wof woof wof wof wooof

of the tun, when it is lengthwise hoisted up and down against a ship's
wf wof wof, woof wf wf woooooooof wooooof wf wof woof wooooof w woof'w

side.
woof.




As in decapitating the whale, the operator's instrument is brought close
Wf wf woooooooooof wof wooof, wof woooooof'w woooooooof wf wooooof wooof

to the spot where an entrance is subsequently forced into the spermaceti
wf wof woof wooof wf woooooof wf woooooooooof woooof woof wof woooooooof

magazine; he has, therefore, to be uncommonly heedful, lest a careless,
woooooof; wf wof, wooooooof, wf wf woooooooof wooooof, woof w woooooof,

untimely stroke should invade the sanctuary and wastingly let out its
woooooof woooof woooof woooof wof wooooooof wof wooooooof wof wof wof

invaluable contents. It is this decapitated end of the head, also, which
woooooooof woooooof. Wf wf woof wooooooooof wof wf wof woof, woof, wooof

is at last elevated out of the water, and retained in that position by
wf wf woof woooooof wof wf wof wooof, wof woooooof wf woof woooooof wf

the enormous cutting tackles, whose hempen combinations, on one side,
wof woooooof wooooof wooooof, wooof woooof woooooooooof, wf wof woof,

make quite a wilderness of ropes in that quarter.
woof wooof w woooooooof wf wooof wf woof wooooof.




Thus much being said, attend now, I pray you, to that marvellous and--in
Woof woof wooof woof, woooof wof, W woof wof, wf woof woooooooof wof--wf

this particular instance--almost fatal operation whereby the Sperm
woof woooooooof woooooof--woooof wooof wooooooof wooooof wof Wooof

Whale's great Heidelburgh Tun is tapped.
Wooof'w wooof Wooooooooof Wof wf woooof.










CHAPTER 78. Cistern and Buckets.
WOOOOOF wf. Wooooof wof Wooooof.







Nimble as a cat, Tashtego mounts aloft; and without altering his erect
Woooof wf w wof, Woooooof woooof wooof; wof wooooof woooooof wof wooof

posture, runs straight out upon the overhanging mainyard-arm, to the
wooooof, woof woooooof wof woof wof wooooooooof woooooof-wof, wf wof

part where it exactly projects over the hoisted Tun. He has carried
woof wooof wf wooooof woooooof woof wof wooooof Wof. Wf wof wooooof

with him a light tackle called a whip, consisting of only two parts,
woof wof w wooof woooof woooof w woof, woooooooof wf woof wof wooof,

travelling through a single-sheaved block. Securing this block, so that
woooooooof wooooof w woooof-wooooof wooof. Woooooof woof wooof, wf woof

it hangs down from the yard-arm, he swings one end of the rope, till it
wf wooof woof woof wof woof-wof, wf woooof wof wof wf wof woof, woof wf

is caught and firmly held by a hand on deck. Then, hand-over-hand, down
wf woooof wof woooof woof wf w woof wf woof. Woof, woof-woof-woof, woof

the other part, the Indian drops through the air, till dexterously he
wof wooof woof, wof Woooof wooof wooooof wof wof, woof wooooooooof wf

lands on the summit of the head. There--still high elevated above the
wooof wf wof woooof wf wof woof. Wooof--wooof woof woooooof wooof wof

rest of the company, to whom he vivaciously cries--he seems some Turkish
woof wf wof wooooof, wf woof wf wooooooooof wooof--wf wooof woof Wooooof

Muezzin calling the good people to prayers from the top of a tower. A
Wooooof wooooof wof woof woooof wf wooooof woof wof wof wf w wooof. W

short-handled sharp spade being sent up to him, he diligently searches
wooof-wooooof wooof wooof wooof woof wf wf wof, wf woooooooof woooooof

for the proper place to begin breaking into the Tun. In this business
wof wof woooof wooof wf wooof woooooof woof wof Wof. Wf woof woooooof

he proceeds very heedfully, like a treasure-hunter in some old house,
wf woooooof woof wooooooof, woof w woooooof-woooof wf woof wof wooof,

sounding the walls to find where the gold is masoned in. By the time
woooooof wof wooof wf woof wooof wof woof wf wooooof wf. Wf wof woof

this cautious search is over, a stout iron-bound bucket, precisely like
woof woooooof woooof wf woof, w wooof woof-wooof woooof, wooooooof woof

a well-bucket, has been attached to one end of the whip; while the other
w woof-woooof, wof woof woooooof wf wof wof wf wof woof; wooof wof wooof

end, being stretched across the deck, is there held by two or three
wof, wooof wooooooof woooof wof woof, wf wooof woof wf wof wf wooof

alert hands. These last now hoist the bucket within grasp of the Indian,
wooof wooof. Wooof woof wof wooof wof woooof woooof wooof wf wof Woooof,

to whom another person has reached up a very long pole. Inserting this
wf woof wooooof woooof wof wooooof wf w woof woof woof. Wooooooof woof

pole into the bucket, Tashtego downward guides the bucket into the Tun,
woof woof wof woooof, Woooooof woooooof woooof wof woooof woof wof Wof,

till it entirely disappears; then giving the word to the seamen at the
woof wf woooooof woooooooof; woof woooof wof woof wf wof woooof wf wof

whip, up comes the bucket again, all bubbling like a dairy-maid's pail
woof, wf wooof wof woooof wooof, wof woooooof woof w wooof-woof'w woof

of new milk. Carefully lowered from its height, the full-freighted
wf wof woof. Wooooooof wooooof woof wof woooof, wof woof-wooooooof

vessel is caught by an appointed hand, and quickly emptied into a large
woooof wf woooof wf wf wooooooof woof, wof wooooof wooooof woof w wooof

tub. Then remounting aloft, it again goes through the same round until
wof. Woof woooooooof wooof, wf wooof woof wooooof wof woof wooof wooof

the deep cistern will yield no more. Towards the end, Tashtego has to
wof woof wooooof woof wooof wf woof. Wooooof wof wof, Woooooof wof wf

ram his long pole harder and harder, and deeper and deeper into the Tun,
wof wof woof woof woooof wof woooof, wof woooof wof woooof woof wof Wof,

until some twenty feet of the pole have gone down.
wooof woof woooof woof wf wof woof woof woof woof.




Now, the people of the Pequod had been baling some time in this way;
Wof, wof woooof wf wof Woooof wof woof woooof woof woof wf woof wof;

several tubs had been filled with the fragrant sperm; when all at once a
wooooof woof wof woof woooof woof wof woooooof wooof; woof wof wf woof w

queer accident happened. Whether it was that Tashtego, that wild Indian,
wooof woooooof woooooof. Wooooof wf wof woof Woooooof, woof woof Woooof,

was so heedless and reckless as to let go for a moment his one-handed
wof wf woooooof wof woooooof wf wf wof wf wof w woooof wof wof-woooof

hold on the great cabled tackles suspending the head; or whether the
woof wf wof wooof woooof wooooof woooooooof wof woof; wf wooooof wof

place where he stood was so treacherous and oozy; or whether the Evil
wooof wooof wf wooof wof wf wooooooooof wof woof; wf wooooof wof Woof

One himself would have it to fall out so, without stating his particular
Wof wooooof wooof woof wf wf woof wof wf, wooooof wooooof wof woooooooof

reasons; how it was exactly, there is no telling now; but, on a sudden,
wooooof; wof wf wof wooooof, wooof wf wf wooooof wof; wof, wf w woooof,

as the eightieth or ninetieth bucket came suckingly up--my God! poor
wf wof wooooooof wf wooooooof woooof woof wooooooof wf--wf Wof! woof

Tashtego--like the twin reciprocating bucket in a veritable well,
Woooooof--woof wof woof wooooooooooof woooof wf w wooooooof woof,

dropped head-foremost down into this great Tun of Heidelburgh, and with
wooooof woof-woooooof woof woof woof wooof Wof wf Wooooooooof, wof woof

a horrible oily gurgling, went clean out of sight!
w woooooof woof woooooof, woof wooof wof wf wooof!




"Man overboard!" cried Daggoo, who amid the general consternation first
"Wof wooooooof!" wooof Woooof, wof woof wof wooooof wooooooooooof wooof

came to his senses. "Swing the bucket this way!" and putting one foot
woof wf wof woooof. "Wooof wof woooof woof wof!" wof wooooof wof woof

into it, so as the better to secure his slippery hand-hold on the whip
woof wf, wf wf wof woooof wf woooof wof woooooof woof-woof wf wof woof

itself, the hoisters ran him high up to the top of the head, almost
woooof, wof woooooof wof wof woof wf wf wof wof wf wof woof, woooof

before Tashtego could have reached its interior bottom. Meantime,
woooof Woooooof wooof woof wooooof wof woooooof woooof. Woooooof,

there was a terrible tumult. Looking over the side, they saw the before
wooof wof w woooooof woooof. Wooooof woof wof woof, woof wof wof woooof

lifeless head throbbing and heaving just below the surface of the sea,
woooooof woof wooooooof wof wooooof woof wooof wof wooooof wf wof wof,

as if that moment seized with some momentous idea; whereas it was only
wf wf woof woooof woooof woof woof wooooooof woof; wooooof wf wof woof

the poor Indian unconsciously revealing by those struggles the perilous
wof woof Woooof wooooooooooof wooooooof wf wooof wooooooof wof woooooof

depth to which he had sunk.
wooof wf wooof wf wof woof.




At this instant, while Daggoo, on the summit of the head, was clearing
Wf woof wooooof, wooof Woooof, wf wof woooof wf wof woof, wof woooooof

the whip--which had somehow got foul of the great cutting tackles--a
wof woof--wooof wof wooooof wof woof wf wof wooof wooooof wooooof--w

sharp cracking noise was heard; and to the unspeakable horror of all,
wooof woooooof wooof wof wooof; wof wf wof wooooooooof woooof wf wof,

one of the two enormous hooks suspending the head tore out, and with
wof wf wof wof woooooof wooof woooooooof wof woof woof wof, wof woof

a vast vibration the enormous mass sideways swung, till the drunk ship
w woof wooooooof wof woooooof woof woooooof wooof, woof wof wooof woof

reeled and shook as if smitten by an iceberg. The one remaining hook,
woooof wof wooof wf wf wooooof wf wf wooooof. Wof wof wooooooof woof,

upon which the entire strain now depended, seemed every instant to be
woof wooof wof woooof woooof wof woooooof, woooof wooof wooooof wf wf

on the point of giving way; an event still more likely from the violent
wf wof wooof wf woooof wof; wf wooof wooof woof woooof woof wof wooooof

motions of the head.
wooooof wf wof woof.




"Come down, come down!" yelled the seamen to Daggoo, but with one hand
"Woof woof, woof woof!" woooof wof woooof wf Woooof, wof woof wof woof

holding on to the heavy tackles, so that if the head should drop, he
wooooof wf wf wof wooof wooooof, wf woof wf wof woof woooof woof, wf

would still remain suspended; the negro having cleared the foul line,
wooof wooof woooof wooooooof; wof wooof woooof wooooof wof woof woof,

rammed down the bucket into the now collapsed well, meaning that the
woooof woof wof woooof woof wof wof wooooooof woof, wooooof woof wof

buried harpooneer should grasp it, and so be hoisted out.
woooof woooooooof woooof wooof wf, wof wf wf wooooof wof.




"In heaven's name, man," cried Stubb, "are you ramming home a cartridge
"Wf woooof'w woof, wof," wooof Wooof, "wof wof wooooof woof w wooooooof

there?--Avast! How will that help him; jamming that iron-bound bucket on
wooof?--Wooof! Wof woof woof woof wof; wooooof woof woof-wooof woooof wf

top of his head? Avast, will ye!"
wof wf wof woof? Wooof, woof wf!"




"Stand clear of the tackle!" cried a voice like the bursting of a
"Wooof wooof wf wof woooof!" wooof w wooof woof wof woooooof wf w

rocket.
woooof.




Almost in the same instant, with a thunder-boom, the enormous mass
Woooof wf wof woof wooooof, woof w wooooof-woof, wof woooooof woof

dropped into the sea, like Niagara's Table-Rock into the whirlpool; the
wooooof woof wof wof, woof Wooooof'w Wooof-Woof woof wof wooooooof; wof

suddenly relieved hull rolled away from it, to far down her glittering
woooooof woooooof woof woooof woof woof wf, wf wof woof wof woooooooof

copper; and all caught their breath, as half swinging--now over the
woooof; wof wof woooof wooof woooof, wf woof woooooof--wof woof wof

sailors' heads, and now over the water--Daggoo, through a thick mist of
wooooof' wooof, wof wof woof wof wooof--Woooof, wooooof w wooof woof wf

spray, was dimly beheld clinging to the pendulous tackles, while poor,
wooof, wof wooof woooof woooooof wf wof wooooooof wooooof, wooof woof,

buried-alive Tashtego was sinking utterly down to the bottom of the sea!
woooof-wooof Woooooof wof wooooof wooooof woof wf wof woooof wf wof wof!

But hardly had the blinding vapour cleared away, when a naked figure
Wof woooof wof wof woooooof woooof wooooof woof, woof w wooof woooof

with a boarding-sword in his hand, was for one swift moment seen
woof w woooooof-wooof wf wof woof, wof wof wof wooof woooof woof

hovering over the bulwarks. The next, a loud splash announced that my
woooooof woof wof woooooof. Wof woof, w woof woooof wooooooof woof wf

brave Queequeg had dived to the rescue. One packed rush was made to the
wooof Woooooof wof wooof wf wof woooof. Wof woooof woof wof woof wf wof

side, and every eye counted every ripple, as moment followed moment, and
woof, wof wooof wof wooooof wooof woooof, wf woooof woooooof woooof, wof

no sign of either the sinker or the diver could be seen. Some hands now
wf woof wf woooof wof woooof wf wof wooof wooof wf woof. Woof wooof wof

jumped into a boat alongside, and pushed a little off from the ship.
woooof woof w woof wooooooof, wof woooof w woooof wof woof wof woof.




"Ha! ha!" cried Daggoo, all at once, from his now quiet, swinging perch
"Wf! wf!" wooof Woooof, wof wf woof, woof wof wof wooof, woooooof wooof

overhead; and looking further off from the side, we saw an arm thrust
woooooof; wof wooooof wooooof wof woof wof woof, wf wof wf wof woooof

upright from the blue waves; a sight strange to see, as an arm thrust
wooooof woof wof woof wooof; w wooof wooooof wf wof, wf wf wof woooof

forth from the grass over a grave.
wooof woof wof wooof woof w wooof.




"Both! both!--it is both!"--cried Daggoo again with a joyful shout; and
"Woof! woof!--wf wf woof!"--wooof Woooof wooof woof w woooof wooof; wof

soon after, Queequeg was seen boldly striking out with one hand, and
woof wooof, Woooooof wof woof woooof woooooof wof woof wof woof, wof

with the other clutching the long hair of the Indian. Drawn into the
woof wof wooof wooooooof wof woof woof wf wof Woooof. Wooof woof wof

waiting boat, they were quickly brought to the deck; but Tashtego was
wooooof woof, woof woof wooooof wooooof wf wof woof; wof Woooooof wof

long in coming to, and Queequeg did not look very brisk.
woof wf woooof wf, wof Woooooof wof wof woof woof wooof.




Now, how had this noble rescue been accomplished? Why, diving after
Wof, wof wof woof wooof woooof woof woooooooooof? Wof, woooof wooof

the slowly descending head, Queequeg with his keen sword had made
wof woooof woooooooof woof, Woooooof woof wof woof wooof wof woof

side lunges near its bottom, so as to scuttle a large hole there; then
woof woooof woof wof woooof, wf wf wf wooooof w wooof woof wooof; woof

dropping his sword, had thrust his long arm far inwards and upwards,
woooooof wof wooof, wof woooof wof woof wof wof wooooof wof wooooof,

and so hauled out poor Tash by the head. He averred, that upon first
wof wf woooof wof woof Woof wf wof woof. Wf wooooof, woof woof wooof

thrusting in for him, a leg was presented; but well knowing that that
wooooooof wf wof wof, w wof wof wooooooof; wof woof wooooof woof woof

was not as it ought to be, and might occasion great trouble;--he had
wof wof wf wf wooof wf wf, wof wooof woooooof wooof wooooof;--wf wof

thrust back the leg, and by a dexterous heave and toss, had wrought a
woooof woof wof wof, wof wf w wooooooof wooof wof woof, wof wooooof w

somerset upon the Indian; so that with the next trial, he came forth in
woooooof woof wof Woooof; wf woof woof wof woof wooof, wf woof wooof wf

the good old way--head foremost. As for the great head itself, that was
wof woof wof wof--woof woooooof. Wf wof wof wooof woof woooof, woof wof

doing as well as could be expected.
wooof wf woof wf wooof wf woooooof.




And thus, through the courage and great skill in obstetrics of Queequeg,
Wof woof, wooooof wof wooooof wof wooof wooof wf woooooooof wf Woooooof,

the deliverance, or rather, delivery of Tashtego, was successfully
wof wooooooooof, wf woooof, woooooof wf Woooooof, wof woooooooooof

accomplished, in the teeth, too, of the most untoward and apparently
woooooooooof, wf wof wooof, wof, wf wof woof woooooof wof woooooooof

hopeless impediments; which is a lesson by no means to be forgotten.
woooooof wooooooooof; wooof wf w woooof wf wf wooof wf wf wooooooof.

Midwifery should be taught in the same course with fencing and boxing,
Wooooooof woooof wf woooof wf wof woof woooof woof wooooof wof woooof,

riding and rowing.
woooof wof woooof.




I know that this queer adventure of the Gay-Header's will be sure to
W woof woof woof wooof wooooooof wf wof Wof-Woooof'w woof wf woof wf

seem incredible to some landsmen, though they themselves may have either
woof woooooooof wf woof woooooof, woooof woof woooooooof wof woof woooof

seen or heard of some one's falling into a cistern ashore; an accident
woof wf wooof wf woof wof'w wooooof woof w wooooof woooof; wf woooooof

which not seldom happens, and with much less reason too than the
wooof wof woooof wooooof, wof woof woof woof woooof wof woof wof

Indian's, considering the exceeding slipperiness of the curb of the
Woooof'w, wooooooooof wof wooooooof woooooooooof wf wof woof wf wof

Sperm Whale's well.
Wooof Wooof'w woof.




But, peradventure, it may be sagaciously urged, how is this? We thought
Wof, woooooooooof, wf wof wf wooooooooof wooof, wof wf woof? Wf wooooof

the tissued, infiltrated head of the Sperm Whale, was the lightest and
wof wooooof, wooooooooof woof wf wof Wooof Wooof, wof wof woooooof wof

most corky part about him; and yet thou makest it sink in an element of
woof wooof woof wooof wof; wof wof woof woooof wf woof wf wf wooooof wf

a far greater specific gravity than itself. We have thee there. Not at
w wof wooooof woooooof wooooof woof woooof. Wf woof woof wooof. Wof wf

all, but I have ye; for at the time poor Tash fell in, the case had been
wof, wof W woof wf; wof wf wof woof woof Woof woof wf, wof woof wof woof

nearly emptied of its lighter contents, leaving little but the dense
woooof wooooof wf wof wooooof woooooof, wooooof woooof wof wof wooof

tendinous wall of the well--a double welded, hammered substance, as I
wooooooof woof wf wof woof--w woooof woooof, woooooof wooooooof, wf W

have before said, much heavier than the sea water, and a lump of which
woof woooof woof, woof wooooof woof wof wof wooof, wof w woof wf wooof

sinks in it like lead almost. But the tendency to rapid sinking in this
wooof wf wf woof woof woooof. Wof wof woooooof wf wooof wooooof wf woof

substance was in the present instance materially counteracted by the
wooooooof wof wf wof wooooof woooooof woooooooof woooooooooof wf wof

other parts of the head remaining undetached from it, so that it sank
wooof wooof wf wof woof wooooooof woooooooof woof wf, wf woof wf woof

very slowly and deliberately indeed, affording Queequeg a fair chance
woof woooof wof woooooooooof woooof, wooooooof Woooooof w woof woooof

for performing his agile obstetrics on the run, as you may say. Yes, it
wof woooooooof wof wooof woooooooof wf wof wof, wf wof wof wof. Wof, wf

was a running delivery, so it was.
wof w wooooof woooooof, wf wf wof.




Now, had Tashtego perished in that head, it had been a very precious
Wof, wof Woooooof woooooof wf woof woof, wf wof woof w woof woooooof

perishing; smothered in the very whitest and daintiest of fragrant
wooooooof; wooooooof wf wof woof wooooof wof wooooooof wf woooooof

spermaceti; coffined, hearsed, and tombed in the secret inner chamber
woooooooof; woooooof, wooooof, wof woooof wf wof woooof wooof wooooof

and sanctum sanctorum of the whale. Only one sweeter end can readily be
wof wooooof wooooooof wf wof wooof. Woof wof wooooof wof wof wooooof wf

recalled--the delicious death of an Ohio honey-hunter, who seeking honey
woooooof--wof wooooooof wooof wf wf Woof wooof-woooof, wof wooooof wooof

in the crotch of a hollow tree, found such exceeding store of it, that
wf wof woooof wf w woooof woof, wooof woof wooooooof wooof wf wf, woof

leaning too far over, it sucked him in, so that he died embalmed.
wooooof wof wof woof, wf woooof wof wf, wf woof wf woof woooooof.

How many, think ye, have likewise fallen into Plato's honey head, and
Wof woof, wooof wf, woof woooooof woooof woof Wooof'w wooof woof, wof

sweetly perished there?
wooooof woooooof wooof?










CHAPTER 79. The Prairie.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Wooooof.







To scan the lines of his face, or feel the bumps on the head of this
Wf woof wof wooof wf wof woof, wf woof wof wooof wf wof woof wf woof

Leviathan; this is a thing which no Physiognomist or Phrenologist has as
Wooooooof; woof wf w wooof wooof wf Wooooooooooof wf Woooooooooof wof wf

yet undertaken. Such an enterprise would seem almost as hopeful as for
wof woooooooof. Woof wf woooooooof wooof woof woooof wf wooooof wf wof

Lavater to have scrutinized the wrinkles on the Rock of Gibraltar,
Wooooof wf woof wooooooooof wof woooooof wf wof Woof wf Wooooooof,

or for Gall to have mounted a ladder and manipulated the Dome of the
wf wof Woof wf woof wooooof w woooof wof wooooooooof wof Woof wf wof

Pantheon. Still, in that famous work of his, Lavater not only treats
Woooooof. Wooof, wf woof woooof woof wf wof, Wooooof wof woof woooof

of the various faces of men, but also attentively studies the faces
wf wof wooooof wooof wf wof, wof woof wooooooooof wooooof wof wooof

of horses, birds, serpents, and fish; and dwells in detail upon the
wf woooof, wooof, woooooof, wof woof; wof woooof wf woooof woof wof

modifications of expression discernible therein. Nor have Gall and
wooooooooooof wf woooooooof wooooooooof wooooof. Wof woof Woof wof

his disciple Spurzheim failed to throw out some hints touching the
wof woooooof Wooooooof woooof wf wooof wof woof wooof woooooof wof

phrenological characteristics of other beings than man. Therefore,
wooooooooooof wooooooooooooof wf wooof woooof woof wof. Wooooooof,

though I am but ill qualified for a pioneer, in the application of these
woooof W wf wof wof wooooooof wof w wooooof, wf wof wooooooooof wf wooof

two semi-sciences to the whale, I will do my endeavor. I try all things;
wof woof-woooooof wf wof wooof, W woof wf wf woooooof. W wof wof woooof;

I achieve what I can.
W wooooof woof W wof.




Physiognomically regarded, the Sperm Whale is an anomalous creature.
Woooooooooooooof woooooof, wof Wooof Wooof wf wf wooooooof woooooof.

He has no proper nose. And since the nose is the central and most
Wf wof wf woooof woof. Wof wooof wof woof wf wof wooooof wof woof

conspicuous of the features; and since it perhaps most modifies and
wooooooooof wf wof woooooof; wof wooof wf wooooof woof woooooof wof

finally controls their combined expression; hence it would seem that its
wooooof woooooof wooof woooooof woooooooof; wooof wf wooof woof woof wof

entire absence, as an external appendage, must very largely affect
woooof wooooof, wf wf woooooof wooooooof, woof woof wooooof woooof

the countenance of the whale. For as in landscape gardening, a spire,
wof wooooooooof wf wof wooof. Wof wf wf wooooooof wooooooof, w wooof,

cupola, monument, or tower of some sort, is deemed almost indispensable
woooof, woooooof, wf wooof wf woof woof, wf woooof woooof wooooooooooof

to the completion of the scene; so no face can be physiognomically in
wf wof woooooooof wf wof wooof; wf wf woof wof wf woooooooooooooof wf

keeping without the elevated open-work belfry of the nose. Dash the nose
wooooof wooooof wof woooooof woof-woof woooof wf wof woof. Woof wof woof

from Phidias's marble Jove, and what a sorry remainder! Nevertheless,
woof Wooooof'w woooof Woof, wof woof w wooof wooooooof! Woooooooooof,

Leviathan is of so mighty a magnitude, all his proportions are so
Wooooooof wf wf wf woooof w wooooooof, wof wof wooooooooof wof wf

stately, that the same deficiency which in the sculptured Jove were
wooooof, woof wof woof woooooooof wooof wf wof woooooooof Woof woof

hideous, in him is no blemish at all. Nay, it is an added grandeur. A
wooooof, wf wof wf wf wooooof wf wof. Wof, wf wf wf wooof woooooof. W

nose to the whale would have been impertinent. As on your physiognomical
woof wf wof wooof wooof woof woof wooooooooof. Wf wf woof woooooooooooof

voyage you sail round his vast head in your jolly-boat, your noble
woooof wof woof wooof wof woof woof wf woof wooof-woof, woof wooof

conceptions of him are never insulted by the reflection that he has a
wooooooooof wf wof wof wooof woooooof wf wof woooooooof woof wf wof w

nose to be pulled. A pestilent conceit, which so often will insist upon
woof wf wf woooof. W wooooooof wooooof, wooof wf wooof woof woooof woof

obtruding even when beholding the mightiest royal beadle on his throne.
wooooooof woof woof wooooooof wof wooooooof wooof woooof wf wof woooof.




In some particulars, perhaps the most imposing physiognomical view to
Wf woof wooooooooof, wooooof wof woof woooooof woooooooooooof woof wf

be had of the Sperm Whale, is that of the full front of his head. This
wf wof wf wof Wooof Wooof, wf woof wf wof woof wooof wf wof woof. Woof

aspect is sublime.
woooof wf wooooof.




In thought, a fine human brow is like the East when troubled with the
Wf wooooof, w woof wooof woof wf woof wof Woof woof woooooof woof wof

morning. In the repose of the pasture, the curled brow of the bull has a
wooooof. Wf wof woooof wf wof wooooof, wof woooof woof wf wof woof wof w

touch of the grand in it. Pushing heavy cannon up mountain defiles, the
wooof wf wof wooof wf wf. Wooooof wooof woooof wf woooooof wooooof, wof

elephant's brow is majestic. Human or animal, the mystical brow is as
woooooof'w woof wf woooooof. Wooof wf woooof, wof woooooof woof wf wf

that great golden seal affixed by the German Emperors to their decrees.
woof wooof woooof woof wooooof wf wof Woooof Woooooof wf wooof wooooof.

It signifies--"God: done this day by my hand." But in most creatures,
Wf wooooooof--"Wof: woof woof wof wf wf woof." Wof wf woof wooooooof,

nay in man himself, very often the brow is but a mere strip of alpine
wof wf wof wooooof, woof wooof wof woof wf wof w woof wooof wf woooof

land lying along the snow line. Few are the foreheads which like
woof wooof wooof wof woof woof. Wof wof wof wooooooof wooof woof

Shakespeare's or Melancthon's rise so high, and descend so low, that the
Wooooooooof'w wf Woooooooof'w woof wf woof, wof wooooof wf wof, woof wof

eyes themselves seem clear, eternal, tideless mountain lakes; and all
woof woooooooof woof wooof, wooooof, woooooof woooooof wooof; wof wof

above them in the forehead's wrinkles, you seem to track the antlered
wooof woof wf wof woooooof'w woooooof, wof woof wf wooof wof woooooof

thoughts descending there to drink, as the Highland hunters track the
woooooof woooooooof wooof wf wooof, wf wof Woooooof wooooof wooof wof

snow prints of the deer. But in the great Sperm Whale, this high and
woof woooof wf wof woof. Wof wf wof wooof Wooof Wooof, woof woof wof

mighty god-like dignity inherent in the brow is so immensely amplified,
woooof wof-woof wooooof woooooof wf wof woof wf wf wooooooof wooooooof,

that gazing on it, in that full front view, you feel the Deity and the
woof woooof wf wf, wf woof woof wooof woof, wof woof wof Wooof wof wof

dread powers more forcibly than in beholding any other object in living
wooof woooof woof woooooof woof wf wooooooof wof wooof woooof wf woooof

nature. For you see no one point precisely; not one distinct feature is
woooof. Wof wof wof wf wof wooof wooooooof; wof wof woooooof wooooof wf

revealed; no nose, eyes, ears, or mouth; no face; he has none, proper;
woooooof; wf woof, woof, woof, wf wooof; wf woof; wf wof woof, woooof;

nothing but that one broad firmament of a forehead, pleated with
wooooof wof woof wof wooof wooooooof wf w woooooof, wooooof woof

riddles; dumbly lowering with the doom of boats, and ships, and men.
wooooof; woooof woooooof woof wof woof wf wooof, wof wooof, wof wof.

Nor, in profile, does this wondrous brow diminish; though that way
Wof, wf wooooof, woof woof woooooof woof woooooof; woooof woof wof

viewed its grandeur does not domineer upon you so. In profile, you
woooof wof woooooof woof wof woooooof woof wof wf. Wf wooooof, wof

plainly perceive that horizontal, semi-crescentic depression in the
wooooof woooooof woof woooooooof, woof-woooooooof woooooooof wf wof

forehead's middle, which, in man, is Lavater's mark of genius.
woooooof'w woooof, wooof, wf wof, wf Wooooof'w woof wf woooof.




But how? Genius in the Sperm Whale? Has the Sperm Whale ever written
Wof wof? Woooof wf wof Wooof Wooof? Wof wof Wooof Wooof woof wooooof

a book, spoken a speech? No, his great genius is declared in his
w woof, woooof w woooof? Wf, wof wooof woooof wf woooooof wf wof

doing nothing particular to prove it. It is moreover declared in his
wooof wooooof woooooooof wf wooof wf. Wf wf woooooof woooooof wf wof

pyramidical silence. And this reminds me that had the great Sperm Whale
wooooooooof wooooof. Wof woof wooooof wf woof wof wof wooof Wooof Wooof

been known to the young Orient World, he would have been deified by
woof wooof wf wof wooof Woooof Wooof, wf wooof woof woof wooooof wf

their child-magian thoughts. They deified the crocodile of the Nile,
wooof wooof-woooof woooooof. Woof wooooof wof wooooooof wf wof Woof,

because the crocodile is tongueless; and the Sperm Whale has no
wooooof wof wooooooof wf woooooooof; wof wof Wooof Wooof wof wf

tongue, or at least it is so exceedingly small, as to be incapable of
woooof, wf wf wooof wf wf wf wooooooooof wooof, wf wf wf wooooooof wf

protrusion. If hereafter any highly cultured, poetical nation shall lure
woooooooof. Wf wooooooof wof woooof woooooof, woooooof woooof wooof woof

back to their birth-right, the merry May-day gods of old; and livingly
woof wf wooof wooof-wooof, wof wooof Wof-wof woof wf wof; wof woooooof

enthrone them again in the now egotistical sky; in the now unhaunted
woooooof woof wooof wf wof wof wooooooooof wof; wf wof wof wooooooof

hill; then be sure, exalted to Jove's high seat, the great Sperm Whale
woof; woof wf woof, wooooof wf Woof'w woof woof, wof wooof Wooof Wooof

shall lord it.
wooof woof wf.




Champollion deciphered the wrinkled granite hieroglyphics. But there is
Wooooooooof woooooooof wof woooooof wooooof wooooooooooof. Wof wooof wf

no Champollion to decipher the Egypt of every man's and every being's
wf Wooooooooof wf woooooof wof Wooof wf wooof wof'w wof wooof wooof'w

face. Physiognomy, like every other human science, is but a passing
woof. Wooooooooof, woof wooof wooof wooof wooooof, wf wof w wooooof

fable. If then, Sir William Jones, who read in thirty languages, could
wooof. Wf woof, Wof Wooooof Wooof, wof woof wf woooof wooooooof, wooof

not read the simplest peasant's face in its profounder and more subtle
wof woof wof woooooof wooooof'w woof wf wof woooooooof wof woof woooof

meanings, how may unlettered Ishmael hope to read the awful Chaldee of
woooooof, wof wof woooooooof Wooooof woof wf woof wof wooof Wooooof wf

the Sperm Whale's brow? I but put that brow before you. Read it if you
wof Wooof Wooof'w woof? W wof wof woof woof woooof wof. Woof wf wf wof

can.
wof.










CHAPTER 80. The Nut.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Wof.







If the Sperm Whale be physiognomically a Sphinx, to the phrenologist his
Wf wof Wooof Wooof wf woooooooooooooof w Woooof, wf wof woooooooooof wof

brain seems that geometrical circle which it is impossible to square.
wooof wooof woof wooooooooof woooof wooof wf wf woooooooof wf woooof.




In the full-grown creature the skull will measure at least twenty feet
Wf wof woof-wooof woooooof wof wooof woof wooooof wf wooof woooof woof

in length. Unhinge the lower jaw, and the side view of this skull is as
wf woooof. Wooooof wof wooof wof, wof wof woof woof wf woof wooof wf wf

the side of a moderately inclined plane resting throughout on a level
wof woof wf w woooooooof woooooof wooof wooooof woooooooof wf w wooof

base. But in life--as we have elsewhere seen--this inclined plane is
woof. Wof wf woof--wf wf woof wooooooof woof--woof woooooof wooof wf

angularly filled up, and almost squared by the enormous superincumbent
wooooooof woooof wf, wof woooof wooooof wf wof woooooof woooooooooooof

mass of the junk and sperm. At the high end the skull forms a crater to
woof wf wof woof wof wooof. Wf wof woof wof wof wooof wooof w woooof wf

bed that part of the mass; while under the long floor of this crater--in
wof woof woof wf wof woof; wooof wooof wof woof wooof wf woof woooof--wf

another cavity seldom exceeding ten inches in length and as many in
wooooof woooof woooof wooooooof wof woooof wf woooof wof wf woof wf

depth--reposes the mere handful of this monster's brain. The brain is at
wooof--wooooof wof woof wooooof wf woof wooooof'w wooof. Wof wooof wf wf

least twenty feet from his apparent forehead in life; it is hidden
wooof woooof woof woof wof woooooof woooooof wf woof; wf wf woooof

away behind its vast outworks, like the innermost citadel within the
woof woooof wof woof woooooof, woof wof wooooooof wooooof woooof wof

amplified fortifications of Quebec. So like a choice casket is it
wooooooof woooooooooooof wf Woooof. Wf woof w woooof woooof wf wf

secreted in him, that I have known some whalemen who peremptorily deny
woooooof wf wof, woof W woof wooof woof woooooof wof woooooooooof woof

that the Sperm Whale has any other brain than that palpable semblance
woof wof Wooof Wooof wof wof wooof wooof woof woof woooooof wooooooof

of one formed by the cubic-yards of his sperm magazine. Lying in strange
wf wof woooof wf wof wooof-wooof wf wof wooof woooooof. Wooof wf wooooof

folds, courses, and convolutions, to their apprehensions, it seems more
wooof, wooooof, wof woooooooooof, wf wooof wooooooooooof, wf wooof woof

in keeping with the idea of his general might to regard that mystic part
wf wooooof woof wof woof wf wof wooooof wooof wf woooof woof woooof woof

of him as the seat of his intelligence.
wf wof wf wof woof wf wof woooooooooof.




It is plain, then, that phrenologically the head of this Leviathan, in
Wf wf wooof, woof, woof wooooooooooooof wof woof wf woof Wooooooof, wf

the creature's living intact state, is an entire delusion. As for his
wof woooooof'w woooof woooof wooof, wf wf woooof woooooof. Wf wof wof

true brain, you can then see no indications of it, nor feel any. The
woof wooof, wof wof woof wof wf wooooooooof wf wf, wof woof wof. Wof

whale, like all things that are mighty, wears a false brow to the common
wooof, woof wof woooof woof wof woooof, wooof w wooof woof wf wof woooof

world.
wooof.




If you unload his skull of its spermy heaps and then take a rear view
Wf wof woooof wof wooof wf wof woooof wooof wof woof woof w woof woof

of its rear end, which is the high end, you will be struck by its
wf wof woof wof, wooof wf wof woof wof, wof woof wf woooof wf wof

resemblance to the human skull, beheld in the same situation, and from
wooooooooof wf wof wooof wooof, woooof wf wof woof wooooooof, wof woof

the same point of view. Indeed, place this reversed skull (scaled down
wof woof wooof wf woof. Woooof, wooof woof woooooof wooof (woooof woof

to the human magnitude) among a plate of men's skulls, and you would
wf wof wooof wooooooof) wooof w wooof wf wof'w woooof, wof wof wooof

involuntarily confound it with them; and remarking the depressions on
wooooooooooof woooooof wf woof woof; wof wooooooof wof wooooooooof wf

one part of its summit, in phrenological phrase you would say--This
wof woof wf wof woooof, wf wooooooooooof woooof wof wooof wof--Woof

man had no self-esteem, and no veneration. And by those negations,
wof wof wf woof-woooof, wof wf woooooooof. Wof wf wooof wooooooof,

considered along with the affirmative fact of his prodigious bulk and
woooooooof wooof woof wof wooooooooof woof wf wof woooooooof woof wof

power, you can best form to yourself the truest, though not the most
wooof, wof wof woof woof wf woooooof wof woooof, woooof wof wof woof

exhilarating conception of what the most exalted potency is.
woooooooooof woooooooof wf woof wof woof wooooof wooooof wf.




But if from the comparative dimensions of the whale's proper brain, you
Wof wf woof wof wooooooooof woooooooof wf wof wooof'w woooof wooof, wof

deem it incapable of being adequately charted, then I have another idea
woof wf wooooooof wf wooof woooooooof wooooof, woof W woof wooooof woof

for you. If you attentively regard almost any quadruped's spine,
wof wof. Wf wof wooooooooof woooof woooof wof wooooooof'w wooof,

you will be struck with the resemblance of its vertebrae to a strung
wof woof wf woooof woof wof wooooooooof wf wof wooooooof wf w woooof

necklace of dwarfed skulls, all bearing rudimental resemblance to the
woooooof wf wooooof woooof, wof wooooof woooooooof wooooooooof wf wof

skull proper. It is a German conceit, that the vertebrae are absolutely
wooof woooof. Wf wf w Woooof wooooof, woof wof wooooooof wof woooooooof

undeveloped skulls. But the curious external resemblance, I take it
wooooooooof woooof. Wof wof wooooof woooooof wooooooooof, W woof wf

the Germans were not the first men to perceive. A foreign friend once
wof Wooooof woof wof wof wooof wof wf woooooof. W wooooof woooof woof

pointed it out to me, in the skeleton of a foe he had slain, and with
wooooof wf wof wf wf, wf wof woooooof wf w wof wf wof wooof, wof woof

the vertebrae of which he was inlaying, in a sort of basso-relievo, the
wof wooooooof wf wooof wf wof woooooof, wf w woof wf wooof-wooooof, wof

beaked prow of his canoe. Now, I consider that the phrenologists have
woooof woof wf wof wooof. Wof, W woooooof woof wof wooooooooooof woof

omitted an important thing in not pushing their investigations from the
wooooof wf wooooooof wooof wf wof wooooof wooof woooooooooooof woof wof

cerebellum through the spinal canal. For I believe that much of a man's
woooooooof wooooof wof woooof wooof. Wof W wooooof woof woof wf w wof'w

character will be found betokened in his backbone. I would rather feel
wooooooof woof wf wooof wooooooof wf wof woooooof. W wooof woooof woof

your spine than your skull, whoever you are. A thin joist of a spine
woof wooof woof woof wooof, wooooof wof wof. W woof wooof wf w wooof

never yet upheld a full and noble soul. I rejoice in my spine, as in the
wooof wof woooof w woof wof wooof woof. W wooooof wf wf wooof, wf wf wof

firm audacious staff of that flag which I fling half out to the world.
woof wooooooof wooof wf woof woof wooof W wooof woof wof wf wof wooof.




Apply this spinal branch of phrenology to the Sperm Whale. His cranial
Wooof woof woooof woooof wf woooooooof wf wof Wooof Wooof. Wof wooooof

cavity is continuous with the first neck-vertebra; and in that vertebra
woooof wf woooooooof woof wof wooof woof-woooooof; wof wf woof woooooof

the bottom of the spinal canal will measure ten inches across, being
wof woooof wf wof woooof wooof woof wooooof wof woooof woooof, wooof

eight in height, and of a triangular figure with the base downwards. As
wooof wf woooof, wof wf w woooooooof woooof woof wof woof wooooooof. Wf

it passes through the remaining vertebrae the canal tapers in size, but
wf woooof wooooof wof wooooooof wooooooof wof wooof woooof wf woof, wof

for a considerable distance remains of large capacity. Now, of course,
wof w woooooooooof woooooof wooooof wf wooof woooooof. Wof, wf woooof,

this canal is filled with much the same strangely fibrous substance--the
woof wooof wf woooof woof woof wof woof wooooooof wooooof wooooooof--wof

spinal cord--as the brain; and directly communicates with the brain.
woooof woof--wf wof wooof; wof woooooof woooooooooof woof wof wooof.

And what is still more, for many feet after emerging from the brain's
Wof woof wf wooof woof, wof woof woof wooof woooooof woof wof wooof'w

cavity, the spinal cord remains of an undecreasing girth, almost
woooof, wof woooof woof wooooof wf wf woooooooooof wooof, woooof

equal to that of the brain. Under all these circumstances, would it be
wooof wf woof wf wof wooof. Wooof wof wooof wooooooooooof, wooof wf wf

unreasonable to survey and map out the whale's spine phrenologically?
woooooooooof wf woooof wof wof wof wof wooof'w wooof wooooooooooooof?

For, viewed in this light, the wonderful comparative smallness of his
Wof, woooof wf woof wooof, wof wooooooof wooooooooof wooooooof wf wof

brain proper is more than compensated by the wonderful comparative
wooof woooof wf woof woof wooooooooof wf wof wooooooof wooooooooof

magnitude of his spinal cord.
wooooooof wf wof woooof woof.




But leaving this hint to operate as it may with the phrenologists, I
Wof wooooof woof woof wf wooooof wf wf wof woof wof wooooooooooof, W

would merely assume the spinal theory for a moment, in reference to the
wooof woooof woooof wof woooof woooof wof w woooof, wf wooooooof wf wof

Sperm Whale's hump. This august hump, if I mistake not, rises over one
Wooof Wooof'w woof. Woof woooof woof, wf W wooooof wof, wooof woof wof

of the larger vertebrae, and is, therefore, in some sort, the outer
wf wof woooof wooooooof, wof wf, wooooooof, wf woof woof, wof wooof

convex mould of it. From its relative situation then, I should call this
woooof wooof wf wf. Woof wof woooooof wooooooof woof, W woooof woof woof

high hump the organ of firmness or indomitableness in the Sperm Whale.
woof woof wof wooof wf woooooof wf wooooooooooooof wf wof Wooof Wooof.

And that the great monster is indomitable, you will yet have reason to
Wof woof wof wooof wooooof wf wooooooooof, wof woof wof woof woooof wf

know.
woof.










CHAPTER 81. The Pequod Meets The Virgin.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Woooof Wooof Wof Woooof.







The predestinated day arrived, and we duly met the ship Jungfrau, Derick
Wof wooooooooooof wof wooooof, wof wf woof wof wof woof Woooooof, Woooof

De Deer, master, of Bremen.
Wf Woof, woooof, wf Woooof.




At one time the greatest whaling people in the world, the Dutch and
Wf wof woof wof woooooof wooooof woooof wf wof wooof, wof Wooof wof

Germans are now among the least; but here and there at very wide
Wooooof wof wof wooof wof wooof; wof woof wof wooof wf woof woof

intervals of latitude and longitude, you still occasionally meet with
wooooooof wf woooooof wof wooooooof, wof wooof woooooooooof woof woof

their flag in the Pacific.
wooof woof wf wof Wooooof.




For some reason, the Jungfrau seemed quite eager to pay her respects.
Wof woof woooof, wof Woooooof woooof wooof wooof wf wof wof woooooof.

While yet some distance from the Pequod, she rounded to, and dropping a
Wooof wof woof woooooof woof wof Woooof, wof wooooof wf, wof woooooof w

boat, her captain was impelled towards us, impatiently standing in the
woof, wof wooooof wof woooooof wooooof wf, wooooooooof woooooof wf wof

bows instead of the stern.
woof wooooof wf wof wooof.




"What has he in his hand there?" cried Starbuck, pointing to something
"Woof wof wf wf wof woof wooof?" wooof Woooooof, woooooof wf wooooooof

wavingly held by the German. "Impossible!--a lamp-feeder!"
woooooof woof wf wof Woooof. "Woooooooof!--w woof-woooof!"




"Not that," said Stubb, "no, no, it's a coffee-pot, Mr. Starbuck; he's
"Wof woof," woof Wooof, "wf, wf, wf'w w woooof-wof, Wf. Woooooof; wf'w

coming off to make us our coffee, is the Yarman; don't you see that big
woooof wof wf woof wf wof woooof, wf wof Woooof; wof'w wof wof woof wof

tin can there alongside of him?--that's his boiling water. Oh! he's all
wof wof wooof wooooooof wf wof?--woof'w wof wooooof wooof. Wf! wf'w wof

right, is the Yarman."
wooof, wf wof Woooof."




"Go along with you," cried Flask, "it's a lamp-feeder and an oil-can.
"Wf wooof woof wof," wooof Wooof, "wf'w w woof-woooof wof wf wof-wof.

He's out of oil, and has come a-begging."
Wf'w wof wf wof, wof wof woof w-wooooof."




However curious it may seem for an oil-ship to be borrowing oil on the
Wooooof wooooof wf wof woof wof wf wof-woof wf wf wooooooof wof wf wof

whale-ground, and however much it may invertedly contradict the old
wooof-woooof, wof wooooof woof wf wof woooooooof woooooooof wof wof

proverb about carrying coals to Newcastle, yet sometimes such a thing
wooooof wooof woooooof wooof wf Wooooooof, wof wooooooof woof w wooof

really happens; and in the present case Captain Derick De Deer did
woooof wooooof; wof wf wof wooooof woof Wooooof Woooof Wf Woof wof

indubitably conduct a lamp-feeder as Flask did declare.
wooooooooof wooooof w woof-woooof wf Wooof wof wooooof.




As he mounted the deck, Ahab abruptly accosted him, without at all
Wf wf wooooof wof woof, Woof woooooof woooooof wof, wooooof wf wof

heeding what he had in his hand; but in his broken lingo, the German
wooooof woof wf wof wf wof woof; wof wf wof woooof wooof, wof Woooof

soon evinced his complete ignorance of the White Whale; immediately
woof wooooof wof woooooof wooooooof wf wof Wooof Wooof; wooooooooof

turning the conversation to his lamp-feeder and oil can, with some
wooooof wof woooooooooof wf wof woof-woooof wof wof wof, woof woof

remarks touching his having to turn into his hammock at night in
wooooof woooooof wof woooof wf woof woof wof wooooof wf wooof wf

profound darkness--his last drop of Bremen oil being gone, and not a
woooooof woooooof--wof woof woof wf Woooof wof wooof woof, wof wof w

single flying-fish yet captured to supply the deficiency; concluding
woooof woooof-woof wof woooooof wf woooof wof woooooooof; woooooooof

by hinting that his ship was indeed what in the Fishery is technically
wf wooooof woof wof woof wof woooof woof wf wof Wooooof wf wooooooooof

called a CLEAN one (that is, an empty one), well deserving the name of
woooof w WOOOF wof (woof wf, wf wooof wof), woof wooooooof wof woof wf

Jungfrau or the Virgin.
Woooooof wf wof Woooof.




His necessities supplied, Derick departed; but he had not gained his
Wof wooooooooof woooooof, Woooof woooooof; wof wf wof wof woooof wof

ship's side, when whales were almost simultaneously raised from the
woof'w woof, woof woooof woof woooof woooooooooooof woooof woof wof

mast-heads of both vessels; and so eager for the chase was Derick, that
woof-wooof wf woof wooooof; wof wf wooof wof wof wooof wof Woooof, woof

without pausing to put his oil-can and lamp-feeder aboard, he slewed
wooooof wooooof wf wof wof wof-wof wof woof-woooof woooof, wf woooof

round his boat and made after the leviathan lamp-feeders.
wooof wof woof wof woof wooof wof wooooooof woof-wooooof.




Now, the game having risen to leeward, he and the other three German
Wof, wof woof woooof wooof wf wooooof, wf wof wof wooof wooof Woooof

boats that soon followed him, had considerably the start of the Pequod's
wooof woof woof woooooof wof, wof woooooooooof wof wooof wf wof Woooof'w

keels. There were eight whales, an average pod. Aware of their danger,
wooof. Wooof woof wooof woooof, wf wooooof wof. Wooof wf wooof woooof,

they were going all abreast with great speed straight before the wind,
woof woof wooof wof wooooof woof wooof wooof woooooof woooof wof woof,

rubbing their flanks as closely as so many spans of horses in harness.
wooooof wooof woooof wf wooooof wf wf woof wooof wf woooof wf wooooof.

They left a great, wide wake, as though continually unrolling a great
Woof woof w wooof, woof woof, wf woooof wooooooooof wooooooof w wooof

wide parchment upon the sea.
woof wooooooof woof wof wof.




Full in this rapid wake, and many fathoms in the rear, swam a huge,
Woof wf woof wooof woof, wof woof wooooof wf wof woof, woof w woof,

humped old bull, which by his comparatively slow progress, as well as
woooof wof woof, wooof wf wof wooooooooooof woof woooooof, wf woof wf

by the unusual yellowish incrustations overgrowing him, seemed afflicted
wf wof wooooof wooooooof wooooooooooof wooooooooof wof, woooof wooooooof

with the jaundice, or some other infirmity. Whether this whale belonged
woof wof woooooof, wf woof wooof wooooooof. Wooooof woof wooof woooooof

to the pod in advance, seemed questionable; for it is not customary for
wf wof wof wf wooooof, woooof woooooooooof; wof wf wf wof wooooooof wof

such venerable leviathans to be at all social. Nevertheless, he stuck
woof wooooooof woooooooof wf wf wf wof woooof. Woooooooooof, wf wooof

to their wake, though indeed their back water must have retarded him,
wf wooof woof, woooof woooof wooof woof wooof woof woof woooooof wof,

because the white-bone or swell at his broad muzzle was a dashed one,
wooooof wof wooof-woof wf wooof wf wof wooof woooof wof w woooof wof,

like the swell formed when two hostile currents meet. His spout was
woof wof wooof woooof woof wof wooooof woooooof woof. Wof wooof wof

short, slow, and laborious; coming forth with a choking sort of gush,
wooof, woof, wof wooooooof; woooof wooof woof w wooooof woof wf woof,

and spending itself in torn shreds, followed by strange subterranean
wof woooooof woooof wf woof woooof, woooooof wf wooooof woooooooooof

commotions in him, which seemed to have egress at his other buried
woooooooof wf wof, wooof woooof wf woof woooof wf wof wooof woooof

extremity, causing the waters behind him to upbubble.
wooooooof, wooooof wof woooof woooof wof wf woooooof.




"Who's got some paregoric?" said Stubb, "he has the stomach-ache, I'm
"Wof'w wof woof wooooooof?" woof Wooof, "wf wof wof wooooof-woof, W'w

afraid. Lord, think of having half an acre of stomach-ache! Adverse
woooof. Woof, wooof wf woooof woof wf woof wf wooooof-woof! Wooooof

winds are holding mad Christmas in him, boys. It's the first foul wind
wooof wof wooooof wof Wooooooof wf wof, woof. Wf'w wof wooof woof woof

I ever knew to blow from astern; but look, did ever whale yaw so before?
W woof woof wf woof woof woooof; wof woof, wof woof wooof wof wf woooof?

it must be, he's lost his tiller."
wf woof wf, wf'w woof wof woooof."




As an overladen Indiaman bearing down the Hindostan coast with a deck
Wf wf wooooooof Woooooof wooooof woof wof Wooooooof wooof woof w woof

load of frightened horses, careens, buries, rolls, and wallows on her
woof wf woooooooof woooof, wooooof, woooof, wooof, wof wooooof wf wof

way; so did this old whale heave his aged bulk, and now and then partly
wof; wf wof woof wof wooof wooof wof woof woof, wof wof wof woof woooof

turning over on his cumbrous rib-ends, expose the cause of his devious
wooooof woof wf wof woooooof wof-woof, woooof wof wooof wf wof wooooof

wake in the unnatural stump of his starboard fin. Whether he had lost
woof wf wof wooooooof wooof wf wof wooooooof wof. Wooooof wf wof woof

that fin in battle, or had been born without it, it were hard to say.
woof wof wf woooof, wf wof woof woof wooooof wf, wf woof woof wf wof.




"Only wait a bit, old chap, and I'll give ye a sling for that wounded
"Woof woof w wof, wof woof, wof W'wf woof wf w wooof wof woof wooooof

arm," cried cruel Flask, pointing to the whale-line near him.
wof," wooof wooof Wooof, woooooof wf wof wooof-woof woof wof.




"Mind he don't sling thee with it," cried Starbuck. "Give way, or the
"Woof wf wof'w wooof woof woof wf," wooof Woooooof. "Woof wof, wf wof

German will have him."
Woooof woof woof wof."




With one intent all the combined rival boats were pointed for this
Woof wof woooof wof wof woooooof wooof wooof woof wooooof wof woof

one fish, because not only was he the largest, and therefore the most
wof woof, wooooof wof woof wof wf wof wooooof, wof wooooooof wof woof

valuable whale, but he was nearest to them, and the other whales were
woooooof wooof, wof wf wof wooooof wf woof, wof wof wooof woooof woof

going with such great velocity, moreover, as almost to defy pursuit
wooof woof woof wooof woooooof, woooooof, wf woooof wf woof wooooof

for the time. At this juncture the Pequod's keels had shot by the three
wof wof woof. Wf woof woooooof wof Woooof'w wooof wof woof wf wof wooof

German boats last lowered; but from the great start he had had, Derick's
Woooof wooof woof wooooof; wof woof wof wooof wooof wf wof wof, Woooof'w

boat still led the chase, though every moment neared by his foreign
woof wooof wof wof wooof, woooof wooof woooof woooof wf wof wooooof

rivals. The only thing they feared, was, that from being already so
woooof. Wof woof wooof woof woooof, wof, woof woof wooof wooooof wf

nigh to his mark, he would be enabled to dart his iron before they
woof wf wof woof, wf wooof wf wooooof wf woof wof woof woooof woof

could completely overtake and pass him. As for Derick, he seemed quite
wooof woooooooof woooooof wof woof wof. Wf wof Woooof, wf woooof wooof

confident that this would be the case, and occasionally with a deriding
wooooooof woof woof wooof wf wof woof, wof woooooooooof woof w woooooof

gesture shook his lamp-feeder at the other boats.
wooooof wooof wof woof-woooof wf wof wooof wooof.




"The ungracious and ungrateful dog!" cried Starbuck; "he mocks and dares
"Wof woooooooof wof woooooooof wof!" wooof Woooooof; "wf wooof wof wooof

me with the very poor-box I filled for him not five minutes ago!"--then
wf woof wof woof woof-wof W woooof wof wof wof woof wooooof wof!"--woof

in his old intense whisper--"Give way, greyhounds! Dog to it!"
wf wof wof wooooof wooooof--"Woof wof, woooooooof! Wof wf wf!"




"I tell ye what it is, men"--cried Stubb to his crew--"it's against
"W woof wf woof wf wf, wof"--wooof Wooof wf wof woof--"wf'w wooooof

my religion to get mad; but I'd like to eat that villainous
wf woooooof wf wof wof; wof W'w woof wf wof woof woooooooof

Yarman--Pull--won't ye? Are ye going to let that rascal beat ye? Do
Woooof--Woof--wof'w wf? Wof wf wooof wf wof woof woooof woof wf? Wf

ye love brandy? A hogshead of brandy, then, to the best man. Come,
wf woof woooof? W woooooof wf woooof, woof, wf wof woof wof. Woof,

why don't some of ye burst a blood-vessel? Who's that been dropping an
wof wof'w woof wf wf wooof w wooof-woooof? Wof'w woof woof woooooof wf

anchor overboard--we don't budge an inch--we're becalmed. Halloo, here's
woooof wooooooof--wf wof'w wooof wf woof--wf'wf woooooof. Woooof, woof'w

grass growing in the boat's bottom--and by the Lord, the mast there's
wooof wooooof wf wof woof'w woooof--wof wf wof Woof, wof woof wooof'w

budding. This won't do, boys. Look at that Yarman! The short and long of
wooooof. Woof wof'w wf, woof. Woof wf woof Woooof! Wof wooof wof woof wf

it is, men, will ye spit fire or not?"
wf wf, wof, woof wf woof woof wf wof?"




"Oh! see the suds he makes!" cried Flask, dancing up and down--"What
"Wf! wof wof woof wf wooof!" wooof Wooof, wooooof wf wof woof--"Woof

a hump--Oh, DO pile on the beef--lays like a log! Oh! my lads, DO
w woof--Wf, WF woof wf wof woof--woof woof w wof! Wf! wf woof, WF

spring--slap-jacks and quahogs for supper, you know, my lads--baked
woooof--woof-wooof wof wooooof wof woooof, wof woof, wf woof--wooof

clams and muffins--oh, DO, DO, spring,--he's a hundred barreller--don't
wooof wof wooooof--wf, WF, WF, woooof,--wf'w w wooooof wooooooof--wof'w

lose him now--don't oh, DON'T!--see that Yarman--Oh, won't ye pull for
woof wof wof--wof'w wf, WOF'W!--wof woof Woooof--Wf, wof'w wf woof wof

your duff, my lads--such a sog! such a sogger! Don't ye love sperm?
woof woof, wf woof--woof w wof! woof w woooof! Wof'w wf woof wooof?

There goes three thousand dollars, men!--a bank!--a whole bank! The bank
Wooof woof wooof woooooof wooooof, wof!--w woof!--w wooof woof! Wof woof

of England!--Oh, DO, DO, DO!--What's that Yarman about now?"
wf Wooooof!--Wf, WF, WF, WF!--Woof'w woof Woooof wooof wof?"




At this moment Derick was in the act of pitching his lamp-feeder at the
Wf woof woooof Woooof wof wf wof wof wf woooooof wof woof-woooof wf wof

advancing boats, and also his oil-can; perhaps with the double view
wooooooof wooof, wof woof wof wof-wof; wooooof woof wof woooof woof

of retarding his rivals' way, and at the same time economically
wf wooooooof wof woooof' wof, wof wf wof woof woof woooooooooof

accelerating his own by the momentary impetus of the backward toss.
woooooooooof wof wof wf wof wooooooof wooooof wf wof woooooof woof.




"The unmannerly Dutch dogger!" cried Stubb. "Pull now, men, like fifty
"Wof woooooooof Wooof woooof!" wooof Wooof. "Woof wof, wof, woof wooof

thousand line-of-battle-ship loads of red-haired devils. What d'ye say,
woooooof woof-wf-woooof-woof wooof wf wof-woooof woooof. Woof w'wf wof,

Tashtego; are you the man to snap your spine in two-and-twenty pieces
Woooooof; wof wof wof wof wf woof woof wooof wf wof-wof-woooof woooof

for the honour of old Gayhead? What d'ye say?"
wof wof woooof wf wof Wooooof? Woof w'wf wof?"




"I say, pull like god-dam,"--cried the Indian.
"W wof, woof woof wof-wof,"--wooof wof Woooof.




Fiercely, but evenly incited by the taunts of the German, the Pequod's
Woooooof, wof woooof wooooof wf wof woooof wf wof Woooof, wof Woooof'w

three boats now began ranging almost abreast; and, so disposed,
wooof wooof wof wooof wooooof woooof wooooof; wof, wf woooooof,

momentarily neared him. In that fine, loose, chivalrous attitude of
wooooooooof woooof wof. Wf woof woof, wooof, woooooooof woooooof wf

the headsman when drawing near to his prey, the three mates stood up
wof woooooof woof wooooof woof wf wof woof, wof wooof wooof wooof wf

proudly, occasionally backing the after oarsman with an exhilarating cry
wooooof, woooooooooof wooooof wof wooof wooooof woof wf woooooooooof wof

of, "There she slides, now! Hurrah for the white-ash breeze! Down with
wf, "Wooof wof woooof, wof! Woooof wof wof wooof-wof woooof! Woof woof

the Yarman! Sail over him!"
wof Woooof! Woof woof wof!"




But so decided an original start had Derick had, that spite of all
Wof wf wooooof wf woooooof wooof wof Woooof wof, woof wooof wf wof

their gallantry, he would have proved the victor in this race, had not
wooof wooooooof, wf wooof woof woooof wof woooof wf woof woof, wof wof

a righteous judgment descended upon him in a crab which caught the blade
w wooooooof woooooof wooooooof woof wof wf w woof wooof woooof wof wooof

of his midship oarsman. While this clumsy lubber was striving to free
wf wof wooooof wooooof. Wooof woof woooof woooof wof woooooof wf woof

his white-ash, and while, in consequence, Derick's boat was nigh to
wof wooof-wof, wof wooof, wf wooooooooof, Woooof'w woof wof woof wf

capsizing, and he thundering away at his men in a mighty rage;--that was
wooooooof, wof wf woooooooof woof wf wof wof wf w woooof woof;--woof wof

a good time for Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask. With a shout, they took a
w woof woof wof Woooooof, Wooof, wof Wooof. Woof w wooof, woof woof w

mortal start forwards, and slantingly ranged up on the German's quarter.
woooof wooof woooooof, wof woooooooof woooof wf wf wof Woooof'w wooooof.

An instant more, and all four boats were diagonically in the whale's
Wf wooooof woof, wof wof woof wooof woof woooooooooof wf wof wooof'w

immediate wake, while stretching from them, on both sides, was the
wooooooof woof, wooof woooooooof woof woof, wf woof wooof, wof wof

foaming swell that he made.
wooooof wooof woof wf woof.




It was a terrific, most pitiable, and maddening sight. The whale was
Wf wof w woooooof, woof woooooof, wof wooooooof wooof. Wof wooof wof

now going head out, and sending his spout before him in a continual
wof wooof woof wof, wof wooooof wof wooof woooof wof wf w wooooooof

tormented jet; while his one poor fin beat his side in an agony of
wooooooof wof; wooof wof wof woof wof woof wof woof wf wf wooof wf

fright. Now to this hand, now to that, he yawed in his faltering flight,
woooof. Wof wf woof woof, wof wf woof, wf wooof wf wof wooooooof woooof,

and still at every billow that he broke, he spasmodically sank in the
wof wooof wf wooof woooof woof wf wooof, wf wooooooooooof woof wf wof

sea, or sideways rolled towards the sky his one beating fin. So have I
wof, wf woooooof woooof wooooof wof wof wof wof wooooof wof. Wf woof W

seen a bird with clipped wing making affrighted broken circles in the
woof w woof woof wooooof woof woooof woooooooof woooof wooooof wf wof

air, vainly striving to escape the piratical hawks. But the bird has a
wof, woooof woooooof wf woooof wof wooooooof wooof. Wof wof woof wof w

voice, and with plaintive cries will make known her fear; but the fear
wooof, wof woof wooooooof wooof woof woof wooof wof woof; wof wof woof

of this vast dumb brute of the sea, was chained up and enchanted in him;
wf woof woof woof wooof wf wof wof, wof wooooof wf wof wooooooof wf wof;

he had no voice, save that choking respiration through his spiracle,
wf wof wf wooof, woof woof wooooof wooooooooof wooooof wof woooooof,

and this made the sight of him unspeakably pitiable; while still, in his
wof woof woof wof wooof wf wof wooooooooof woooooof; wooof wooof, wf wof

amazing bulk, portcullis jaw, and omnipotent tail, there was enough to
wooooof woof, woooooooof wof, wof woooooooof woof, wooof wof woooof wf

appal the stoutest man who so pitied.
wooof wof woooooof wof wof wf woooof.




Seeing now that but a very few moments more would give the Pequod's
Woooof wof woof wof w woof wof wooooof woof wooof woof wof Woooof'w

boats the advantage, and rather than be thus foiled of his game, Derick
wooof wof wooooooof, wof woooof woof wf woof woooof wf wof woof, Woooof

chose to hazard what to him must have seemed a most unusually long dart,
wooof wf woooof woof wf wof woof woof woooof w woof wooooooof woof woof,

ere the last chance would for ever escape.
wof wof woof woooof wooof wof woof woooof.




But no sooner did his harpooneer stand up for the stroke, than all three
Wof wf woooof wof wof woooooooof wooof wf wof wof woooof, woof wof wooof

tigers--Queequeg, Tashtego, Daggoo--instinctively sprang to their feet,
woooof--Woooooof, Woooooof, Woooof--wooooooooooof woooof wf wooof woof,

and standing in a diagonal row, simultaneously pointed their barbs; and
wof woooooof wf w woooooof wof, woooooooooooof wooooof wooof wooof; wof

darted over the head of the German harpooneer, their three Nantucket
woooof woof wof woof wf wof Woooof woooooooof, wooof wooof Wooooooof

irons entered the whale. Blinding vapours of foam and white-fire! The
wooof wooooof wof wooof. Woooooof wooooof wf woof wof wooof-woof! Wof

three boats, in the first fury of the whale's headlong rush, bumped
wooof wooof, wf wof wooof woof wf wof wooof'w woooooof woof, woooof

the German's aside with such force, that both Derick and his baffled
wof Woooof'w wooof woof woof wooof, woof woof Woooof wof wof wooooof

harpooneer were spilled out, and sailed over by the three flying keels.
woooooooof woof wooooof wof, wof woooof woof wf wof wooof woooof wooof.




"Don't be afraid, my butter-boxes," cried Stubb, casting a passing
"Wof'w wf woooof, wf woooof-wooof," wooof Wooof, wooooof w wooooof

glance upon them as he shot by; "ye'll be picked up presently--all
woooof woof woof wf wf woof wf; "wf'wf wf woooof wf wooooooof--wof

right--I saw some sharks astern--St. Bernard's dogs, you know--relieve
wooof--W wof woof woooof woooof--Wf. Wooooof'w woof, wof woof--wooooof

distressed travellers. Hurrah! this is the way to sail now. Every keel a
woooooooof woooooooof. Woooof! woof wf wof wof wf woof wof. Wooof woof w

sunbeam! Hurrah!--Here we go like three tin kettles at the tail of a mad
wooooof! Woooof!--Woof wf wf woof wooof wof wooooof wf wof woof wf w wof

cougar! This puts me in mind of fastening to an elephant in a tilbury on
woooof! Woof woof wf wf woof wf wooooooof wf wf woooooof wf w wooooof wf

a plain--makes the wheel-spokes fly, boys, when you fasten to him that
w wooof--wooof wof wooof-woooof wof, woof, woof wof woooof wf wof woof

way; and there's danger of being pitched out too, when you strike a
wof; wof wooof'w woooof wf wooof wooooof wof wof, woof wof woooof w

hill. Hurrah! this is the way a fellow feels when he's going to Davy
woof. Woooof! woof wf wof wof w woooof wooof woof wf'w wooof wf Woof

Jones--all a rush down an endless inclined plane! Hurrah! this whale
Wooof--wof w woof woof wf wooooof woooooof wooof! Woooof! woof wooof

carries the everlasting mail!"
wooooof wof wooooooooof woof!"




But the monster's run was a brief one. Giving a sudden gasp, he
Wof wof wooooof'w wof wof w wooof wof. Woooof w woooof woof, wf

tumultuously sounded. With a grating rush, the three lines flew round
woooooooooof wooooof. Woof w wooooof woof, wof wooof wooof woof wooof

the loggerheads with such a force as to gouge deep grooves in them;
wof wooooooooof woof woof w wooof wf wf wooof woof wooooof wf woof;

while so fearful were the harpooneers that this rapid sounding would
wooof wf wooooof woof wof wooooooooof woof woof wooof woooooof wooof

soon exhaust the lines, that using all their dexterous might, they
woof wooooof wof wooof, woof wooof wof wooof wooooooof wooof, woof

caught repeated smoking turns with the rope to hold on; till at
woooof woooooof wooooof wooof woof wof woof wf woof wf; woof wf

last--owing to the perpendicular strain from the lead-lined chocks of
woof--wooof wf wof wooooooooooof woooof woof wof woof-wooof woooof wf

the boats, whence the three ropes went straight down into the blue--the
wof wooof, woooof wof wooof wooof woof woooooof woof woof wof woof--wof

gunwales of the bows were almost even with the water, while the three
woooooof wf wof woof woof woooof woof woof wof wooof, wooof wof wooof

sterns tilted high in the air. And the whale soon ceasing to sound,
woooof woooof woof wf wof wof. Wof wof wooof woof wooooof wf wooof,

for some time they remained in that attitude, fearful of expending more
wof woof woof woof woooooof wf woof woooooof, wooooof wf wooooooof woof

line, though the position was a little ticklish. But though boats have
woof, woooof wof woooooof wof w woooof woooooof. Wof woooof wooof woof

been taken down and lost in this way, yet it is this "holding on," as it
woof wooof woof wof woof wf woof wof, wof wf wf woof "wooooof wf," wf wf

is called; this hooking up by the sharp barbs of his live flesh from
wf woooof; woof wooooof wf wf wof wooof wooof wf wof woof wooof woof

the back; this it is that often torments the Leviathan into soon rising
wof woof; woof wf wf woof wooof woooooof wof Wooooooof woof woof woooof

again to meet the sharp lance of his foes. Yet not to speak of the peril
wooof wf woof wof wooof wooof wf wof woof. Wof wof wf wooof wf wof wooof

of the thing, it is to be doubted whether this course is always the
wf wof wooof, wf wf wf wf wooooof wooooof woof woooof wf woooof wof

best; for it is but reasonable to presume, that the longer the stricken
woof; wof wf wf wof woooooooof wf wooooof, woof wof woooof wof woooooof

whale stays under water, the more he is exhausted. Because, owing to the
wooof wooof wooof wooof, wof woof wf wf wooooooof. Wooooof, wooof wf wof

enormous surface of him--in a full grown sperm whale something less than
woooooof wooooof wf wof--wf w woof wooof wooof wooof wooooooof woof woof

2000 square feet--the pressure of the water is immense. We all know
woof woooof woof--wof woooooof wf wof wooof wf wooooof. Wf wof woof

what an astonishing atmospheric weight we ourselves stand up under; even
woof wf wooooooooof wooooooooof woooof wf wooooooof wooof wf wooof; woof

here, above-ground, in the air; how vast, then, the burden of a whale,
woof, wooof-woooof, wf wof wof; wof woof, woof, wof woooof wf w wooof,

bearing on his back a column of two hundred fathoms of ocean! It must at
wooooof wf wof woof w woooof wf wof wooooof wooooof wf wooof! Wf woof wf

least equal the weight of fifty atmospheres. One whaleman has estimated
wooof wooof wof woooof wf wooof wooooooooof. Wof woooooof wof wooooooof

it at the weight of twenty line-of-battle ships, with all their guns,
wf wf wof woooof wf woooof woof-wf-woooof wooof, woof wof wooof woof,

and stores, and men on board.
wof woooof, wof wof wf wooof.




As the three boats lay there on that gently rolling sea, gazing down
Wf wof wooof wooof wof wooof wf woof woooof wooooof wof, woooof woof

into its eternal blue noon; and as not a single groan or cry of any
woof wof wooooof woof woof; wof wf wof w woooof wooof wf wof wf wof

sort, nay, not so much as a ripple or a bubble came up from its depths;
woof, wof, wof wf woof wf w woooof wf w woooof woof wf woof wof woooof;

what landsman would have thought, that beneath all that silence and
woof woooooof wooof woof wooooof, woof wooooof wof woof wooooof wof

placidity, the utmost monster of the seas was writhing and wrenching in
wooooooof, wof woooof wooooof wf wof woof wof woooooof wof wooooooof wf

agony! Not eight inches of perpendicular rope were visible at the bows.
wooof! Wof wooof woooof wf wooooooooooof woof woof wooooof wf wof woof.

Seems it credible that by three such thin threads the great Leviathan
Wooof wf woooooof woof wf wooof woof woof wooooof wof wooof Wooooooof

was suspended like the big weight to an eight day clock. Suspended? and
wof wooooooof woof wof wof woooof wf wf wooof wof wooof. Wooooooof? wof

to what? To three bits of board. Is this the creature of whom it was
wf woof? Wf wooof woof wf wooof. Wf woof wof woooooof wf woof wf wof

once so triumphantly said--"Canst thou fill his skin with barbed irons?
woof wf woooooooooof woof--"Wooof woof woof wof woof woof woooof wooof?

or his head with fish-spears? The sword of him that layeth at him cannot
wf wof woof woof woof-woooof? Wof wooof wf wof woof woooof wf wof woooof

hold, the spear, the dart, nor the habergeon: he esteemeth iron as
woof, wof wooof, wof woof, wof wof wooooooof: wf wooooooof woof wf

straw; the arrow cannot make him flee; darts are counted as stubble;
wooof; wof wooof woooof woof wof woof; wooof wof wooooof wf wooooof;

he laugheth at the shaking of a spear!" This the creature? this he? Oh!
wf woooooof wf wof wooooof wf w wooof!" Woof wof woooooof? woof wf? Wf!

that unfulfilments should follow the prophets. For with the strength
woof wooooooooooof woooof woooof wof woooooof. Wof woof wof woooooof

of a thousand thighs in his tail, Leviathan had run his head under the
wf w woooooof woooof wf wof woof, Wooooooof wof wof wof woof wooof wof

mountains of the sea, to hide him from the Pequod's fish-spears!
wooooooof wf wof wof, wf woof wof woof wof Woooof'w woof-woooof!




In that sloping afternoon sunlight, the shadows that the three boats
Wf woof wooooof wooooooof woooooof, wof wooooof woof wof wooof wooof

sent down beneath the surface, must have been long enough and broad
woof woof wooooof wof wooooof, woof woof woof woof woooof wof wooof

enough to shade half Xerxes' army. Who can tell how appalling to the
woooof wf wooof woof Woooof' woof. Wof wof woof wof wooooooof wf wof

wounded whale must have been such huge phantoms flitting over his head!
wooooof wooof woof woof woof woof woof woooooof woooooof woof wof woof!




"Stand by, men; he stirs," cried Starbuck, as the three lines suddenly
"Wooof wf, wof; wf wooof," wooof Woooooof, wf wof wooof wooof woooooof

vibrated in the water, distinctly conducting upwards to them, as by
woooooof wf wof wooof, woooooooof woooooooof wooooof wf woof, wf wf

magnetic wires, the life and death throbs of the whale, so that every
woooooof wooof, wof woof wof wooof woooof wf wof wooof, wf woof wooof

oarsman felt them in his seat. The next moment, relieved in great part
wooooof woof woof wf wof woof. Wof woof woooof, woooooof wf wooof woof

from the downward strain at the bows, the boats gave a sudden bounce
woof wof woooooof woooof wf wof woof, wof wooof woof w woooof woooof

upwards, as a small icefield will, when a dense herd of white bears are
wooooof, wf w wooof woooooof woof, woof w wooof woof wf wooof wooof wof

scared from it into the sea.
woooof woof wf woof wof wof.




"Haul in! Haul in!" cried Starbuck again; "he's rising."
"Woof wf! Woof wf!" wooof Woooooof wooof; "wf'w woooof."




The lines, of which, hardly an instant before, not one hand's breadth
Wof wooof, wf wooof, woooof wf wooooof woooof, wof wof woof'w wooooof

could have been gained, were now in long quick coils flung back all
wooof woof woof woooof, woof wof wf woof wooof wooof wooof woof wof

dripping into the boats, and soon the whale broke water within two
woooooof woof wof wooof, wof woof wof wooof wooof wooof woooof wof

ship's lengths of the hunters.
woof'w wooooof wf wof wooooof.




His motions plainly denoted his extreme exhaustion. In most land animals
Wof wooooof wooooof wooooof wof wooooof woooooooof. Wf woof woof wooooof

there are certain valves or flood-gates in many of their veins, whereby
wooof wof wooooof woooof wf wooof-wooof wf woof wf wooof wooof, wooooof

when wounded, the blood is in some degree at least instantly shut off in
woof wooooof, wof wooof wf wf woof woooof wf wooof wooooooof woof wof wf

certain directions. Not so with the whale; one of whose peculiarities
wooooof woooooooof. Wof wf woof wof wooof; wof wf wooof wooooooooooof

it is to have an entire non-valvular structure of the blood-vessels, so
wf wf wf woof wf woooof wof-woooooof wooooooof wf wof wooof-wooooof, wf

that when pierced even by so small a point as a harpoon, a deadly
woof woof wooooof woof wf wf wooof w wooof wf w wooooof, w woooof

drain is at once begun upon his whole arterial system; and when this is
wooof wf wf woof wooof woof wof wooof woooooof woooof; wof woof woof wf

heightened by the extraordinary pressure of water at a great distance
woooooooof wf wof wooooooooooof woooooof wf wooof wf w wooof woooooof

below the surface, his life may be said to pour from him in incessant
wooof wof wooooof, wof woof wof wf woof wf woof woof wof wf wooooooof

streams. Yet so vast is the quantity of blood in him, and so distant
wooooof. Wof wf woof wf wof woooooof wf wooof wf wof, wof wf wooooof

and numerous its interior fountains, that he will keep thus bleeding and
wof woooooof wof woooooof wooooooof, woof wf woof woof woof woooooof wof

bleeding for a considerable period; even as in a drought a river will
woooooof wof w woooooooooof woooof; woof wf wf w wooooof w wooof woof

flow, whose source is in the well-springs of far-off and undiscernible
woof, wooof woooof wf wf wof woof-wooooof wf wof-wof wof wooooooooooof

hills. Even now, when the boats pulled upon this whale, and perilously
wooof. Woof wof, woof wof wooof woooof woof woof wooof, wof woooooooof

drew over his swaying flukes, and the lances were darted into him,
woof woof wof wooooof woooof, wof wof woooof woof woooof woof wof,

they were followed by steady jets from the new made wound, which kept
woof woof woooooof wf woooof woof woof wof wof woof wooof, wooof woof

continually playing, while the natural spout-hole in his head was only
wooooooooof wooooof, wooof wof wooooof wooof-woof wf wof woof wof woof

at intervals, however rapid, sending its affrighted moisture into the
wf wooooooof, wooooof wooof, wooooof wof woooooooof woooooof woof wof

air. From this last vent no blood yet came, because no vital part of him
wof. Woof woof woof woof wf wooof wof woof, wooooof wf wooof woof wf wof

had thus far been struck. His life, as they significantly call it, was
wof woof wof woof woooof. Wof woof, wf woof wooooooooooof woof wf, wof

untouched.
wooooooof.




As the boats now more closely surrounded him, the whole upper part of
Wf wof wooof wof woof wooooof woooooooof wof, wof wooof wooof woof wf

his form, with much of it that is ordinarily submerged, was plainly
wof woof, woof woof wf wf woof wf woooooooof wooooooof, wof wooooof

revealed. His eyes, or rather the places where his eyes had been, were
woooooof. Wof woof, wf woooof wof woooof wooof wof woof wof woof, woof

beheld. As strange misgrown masses gather in the knot-holes of the
woooof. Wf wooooof woooooof woooof woooof wf wof woof-wooof wf wof

noblest oaks when prostrate, so from the points which the whale's eyes
wooooof woof woof wooooooof, wf woof wof woooof wooof wof wooof'w woof

had once occupied, now protruded blind bulbs, horribly pitiable to see.
wof woof woooooof, wof wooooooof wooof wooof, woooooof woooooof wf wof.

But pity there was none. For all his old age, and his one arm, and his
Wof woof wooof wof woof. Wof wof wof wof wof, wof wof wof wof, wof wof

blind eyes, he must die the death and be murdered, in order to light the
wooof woof, wf woof wof wof wooof wof wf woooooof, wf wooof wf wooof wof

gay bridals and other merry-makings of men, and also to illuminate the
wof wooooof wof wooof wooof-wooooof wf wof, wof woof wf woooooooof wof

solemn churches that preach unconditional inoffensiveness by all to all.
woooof woooooof woof woooof wooooooooooof wooooooooooooof wf wof wf wof.

Still rolling in his blood, at last he partially disclosed a strangely
Wooof wooooof wf wof wooof, wf woof wf wooooooof wooooooof w wooooooof

discoloured bunch or protuberance, the size of a bushel, low down on the
wooooooooof wooof wf woooooooooof, wof woof wf w woooof, wof woof wf wof

flank.
wooof.




"A nice spot," cried Flask; "just let me prick him there once."
"W woof woof," wooof Wooof; "woof wof wf wooof wof wooof woof."




"Avast!" cried Starbuck, "there's no need of that!"
"Wooof!" wooof Woooooof, "wooof'w wf woof wf woof!"




But humane Starbuck was too late. At the instant of the dart an
Wof woooof Woooooof wof wof woof. Wf wof wooooof wf wof woof wf

ulcerous jet shot from this cruel wound, and goaded by it into more than
woooooof wof woof woof woof wooof wooof, wof woooof wf wf woof woof woof

sufferable anguish, the whale now spouting thick blood, with swift fury
woooooooof wooooof, wof wooof wof woooooof wooof wooof, woof wooof woof

blindly darted at the craft, bespattering them and their glorying crews
wooooof woooof wf wof wooof, woooooooooof woof wof wooof woooooof wooof

all over with showers of gore, capsizing Flask's boat and marring the
wof woof woof wooooof wf woof, wooooooof Wooof'w woof wof wooooof wof

bows. It was his death stroke. For, by this time, so spent was he by
woof. Wf wof wof wooof woooof. Wof, wf woof woof, wf wooof wof wf wf

loss of blood, that he helplessly rolled away from the wreck he had
woof wf wooof, woof wf woooooooof woooof woof woof wof wooof wf wof

made; lay panting on his side, impotently flapped with his stumped fin,
woof; wof wooooof wf wof woof, woooooooof wooooof woof wof wooooof wof,

then over and over slowly revolved like a waning world; turned up
woof woof wof woof woooof woooooof woof w woooof wooof; woooof wf

the white secrets of his belly; lay like a log, and died. It was most
wof wooof wooooof wf wof wooof; wof woof w wof, wof woof. Wf wof woof

piteous, that last expiring spout. As when by unseen hands the water
wooooof, woof woof woooooof wooof. Wf woof wf woooof wooof wof wooof

is gradually drawn off from some mighty fountain, and with half-stifled
wf wooooooof wooof wof woof woof woooof woooooof, wof woof woof-wooooof

melancholy gurglings the spray-column lowers and lowers to the
woooooooof wooooooof wof wooof-woooof woooof wof woooof wf wof

ground--so the last long dying spout of the whale.
woooof--wf wof woof woof wooof wooof wf wof wooof.




Soon, while the crews were awaiting the arrival of the ship, the body
Woof, wooof wof wooof woof woooooof wof wooooof wf wof woof, wof woof

showed symptoms of sinking with all its treasures unrifled. Immediately,
woooof woooooof wf wooooof woof wof wof wooooooof woooooof. Wooooooooof,

by Starbuck's orders, lines were secured to it at different points, so
wf Woooooof'w woooof, wooof woof wooooof wf wf wf wooooooof woooof, wf

that ere long every boat was a buoy; the sunken whale being suspended a
woof wof woof wooof woof wof w woof; wof woooof wooof wooof wooooooof w

few inches beneath them by the cords. By very heedful management, when
wof woooof wooooof woof wf wof wooof. Wf woof wooooof woooooooof, woof

the ship drew nigh, the whale was transferred to her side, and was
wof woof woof woof, wof wooof wof wooooooooof wf wof woof, wof wof

strongly secured there by the stiffest fluke-chains, for it was plain
woooooof wooooof wooof wf wof woooooof wooof-woooof, wof wf wof wooof

that unless artificially upheld, the body would at once sink to the
woof woooof woooooooooof woooof, wof woof wooof wf woof woof wf wof

bottom.
woooof.




It so chanced that almost upon first cutting into him with the spade,
Wf wf wooooof woof woooof woof wooof wooooof woof wof woof wof wooof,

the entire length of a corroded harpoon was found imbedded in his flesh,
wof woooof woooof wf w woooooof wooooof wof wooof woooooof wf wof wooof,

on the lower part of the bunch before described. But as the stumps of
wf wof wooof woof wf wof wooof woooof wooooooof. Wof wf wof woooof wf

harpoons are frequently found in the dead bodies of captured whales,
woooooof wof woooooooof wooof wf wof woof woooof wf woooooof woooof,

with the flesh perfectly healed around them, and no prominence of any
woof wof wooof wooooooof woooof woooof woof, wof wf woooooooof wf wof

kind to denote their place; therefore, there must needs have been
woof wf woooof wooof wooof; wooooooof, wooof woof wooof woof woof

some other unknown reason in the present case fully to account for
woof wooof wooooof woooof wf wof wooooof woof wooof wf wooooof wof

the ulceration alluded to. But still more curious was the fact of a
wof woooooooof wooooof wf. Wof wooof woof wooooof wof wof woof wf w

lance-head of stone being found in him, not far from the buried iron,
wooof-woof wf wooof wooof wooof wf wof, wof wof woof wof woooof woof,

the flesh perfectly firm about it. Who had darted that stone lance? And
wof wooof wooooooof woof wooof wf. Wof wof woooof woof wooof wooof? Wof

when? It might have been darted by some Nor' West Indian long before
woof? Wf wooof woof woof woooof wf woof Wof' Woof Woooof woof woooof

America was discovered.
Wooooof wof woooooooof.




What other marvels might have been rummaged out of this monstrous
Woof wooof wooooof wooof woof woof woooooof wof wf woof wooooooof

cabinet there is no telling. But a sudden stop was put to further
wooooof wooof wf wf wooooof. Wof w woooof woof wof wof wf wooooof

discoveries, by the ship's being unprecedentedly dragged over sideways
wooooooooof, wf wof woof'w wooof wooooooooooooof wooooof woof woooooof

to the sea, owing to the body's immensely increasing tendency to sink.
wf wof wof, wooof wf wof woof'w wooooooof woooooooof woooooof wf woof.

However, Starbuck, who had the ordering of affairs, hung on to it to the
Wooooof, Woooooof, wof wof wof woooooof wf wooooof, woof wf wf wf wf wof

last; hung on to it so resolutely, indeed, that when at length the ship
woof; woof wf wf wf wf woooooooof, woooof, woof woof wf woooof wof woof

would have been capsized, if still persisting in locking arms with the
wooof woof woof woooooof, wf wooof woooooooof wf wooooof woof woof wof

body; then, when the command was given to break clear from it, such was
woof; woof, woof wof wooooof wof wooof wf wooof wooof woof wf, woof wof

the immovable strain upon the timber-heads to which the fluke-chains and
wof wooooooof woooof woof wof woooof-wooof wf wooof wof wooof-woooof wof

cables were fastened, that it was impossible to cast them off. Meantime
woooof woof woooooof, woof wf wof woooooooof wf woof woof wof. Woooooof

everything in the Pequod was aslant. To cross to the other side of the
woooooooof wf wof Woooof wof woooof. Wf wooof wf wof wooof woof wf wof

deck was like walking up the steep gabled roof of a house. The ship
woof wof woof wooooof wf wof wooof woooof woof wf w wooof. Wof woof

groaned and gasped. Many of the ivory inlayings of her bulwarks and
wooooof wof woooof. Woof wf wof wooof wooooooof wf wof woooooof wof

cabins were started from their places, by the unnatural dislocation.
woooof woof wooooof woof wooof woooof, wf wof wooooooof wooooooooof.

In vain handspikes and crows were brought to bear upon the immovable
Wf woof woooooooof wof wooof woof wooooof wf woof woof wof wooooooof

fluke-chains, to pry them adrift from the timberheads; and so low
wooof-woooof, wf wof woof woooof woof wof wooooooooof; wof wf wof

had the whale now settled that the submerged ends could not be at all
wof wof wooof wof wooooof woof wof wooooooof woof wooof wof wf wf wof

approached, while every moment whole tons of ponderosity seemed added to
woooooooof, wooof wooof woooof wooof woof wf wooooooooof woooof wooof wf

the sinking bulk, and the ship seemed on the point of going over.
wof wooooof woof, wof wof woof woooof wf wof wooof wf wooof woof.




"Hold on, hold on, won't ye?" cried Stubb to the body, "don't be in such
"Woof wf, woof wf, wof'w wf?" wooof Wooof wf wof woof, "wof'w wf wf woof

a devil of a hurry to sink! By thunder, men, we must do something or go
w wooof wf w wooof wf woof! Wf wooooof, wof, wf woof wf wooooooof wf wf

for it. No use prying there; avast, I say with your handspikes, and run
wof wf. Wf wof woooof wooof; wooof, W wof woof woof woooooooof, wof wof

one of ye for a prayer book and a pen-knife, and cut the big chains."
wof wf wf wof w woooof woof wof w wof-wooof, wof wof wof wof woooof."




"Knife? Aye, aye," cried Queequeg, and seizing the carpenter's heavy
"Wooof? Wof, wof," wooof Woooooof, wof wooooof wof wooooooof'w wooof

hatchet, he leaned out of a porthole, and steel to iron, began slashing
wooooof, wf woooof wof wf w woooooof, wof wooof wf woof, wooof woooooof

at the largest fluke-chains. But a few strokes, full of sparks, were
wf wof wooooof wooof-woooof. Wof w wof wooooof, woof wf woooof, woof

given, when the exceeding strain effected the rest. With a terrific
wooof, woof wof wooooooof woooof woooooof wof woof. Woof w woooooof

snap, every fastening went adrift; the ship righted, the carcase sank.
woof, wooof wooooooof woof woooof; wof woof wooooof, wof wooooof woof.




Now, this occasional inevitable sinking of the recently killed Sperm
Wof, woof woooooooof woooooooof wooooof wf wof woooooof woooof Wooof

Whale is a very curious thing; nor has any fisherman yet adequately
Wooof wf w woof wooooof wooof; wof wof wof wooooooof wof woooooooof

accounted for it. Usually the dead Sperm Whale floats with great
wooooooof wof wf. Wooooof wof woof Wooof Wooof woooof woof wooof

buoyancy, with its side or belly considerably elevated above the
woooooof, woof wof woof wf wooof woooooooooof woooooof wooof wof

surface. If the only whales that thus sank were old, meagre, and
wooooof. Wf wof woof woooof woof woof woof woof wof, woooof, wof

broken-hearted creatures, their pads of lard diminished and all their
woooof-wooooof wooooooof, wooof woof wf woof woooooooof wof wof wooof

bones heavy and rheumatic; then you might with some reason assert that
wooof wooof wof wooooooof; woof wof wooof woof woof woooof woooof woof

this sinking is caused by an uncommon specific gravity in the fish so
woof wooooof wf woooof wf wf woooooof woooooof wooooof wf wof woof wf

sinking, consequent upon this absence of buoyant matter in him. But it
wooooof, woooooooof woof woof wooooof wf wooooof woooof wf wof. Wof wf

is not so. For young whales, in the highest health, and swelling with
wf wof wf. Wof wooof woooof, wf wof wooooof woooof, wof woooooof woof

noble aspirations, prematurely cut off in the warm flush and May of
wooof wooooooooof, wooooooooof wof wof wf wof woof wooof wof Wof wf

life, with all their panting lard about them; even these brawny, buoyant
woof, woof wof wooof wooooof woof wooof woof; woof wooof woooof, wooooof

heroes do sometimes sink.
woooof wf wooooooof woof.




Be it said, however, that the Sperm Whale is far less liable to this
Wf wf woof, wooooof, woof wof Wooof Wooof wf wof woof woooof wf woof

accident than any other species. Where one of that sort go down, twenty
woooooof woof wof wooof wooooof. Wooof wof wf woof woof wf woof, woooof

Right Whales do. This difference in the species is no doubt imputable in
Wooof Woooof wf. Woof woooooooof wf wof wooooof wf wf wooof wooooooof wf

no small degree to the greater quantity of bone in the Right Whale;
wf wooof woooof wf wof wooooof woooooof wf woof wf wof Wooof Wooof;

his Venetian blinds alone sometimes weighing more than a ton; from this
wof Woooooof woooof wooof wooooooof woooooof woof woof w wof; woof woof

incumbrance the Sperm Whale is wholly free. But there are instances
wooooooooof wof Wooof Wooof wf woooof woof. Wof wooof wof wooooooof

where, after the lapse of many hours or several days, the sunken whale
wooof, wooof wof wooof wf woof wooof wf wooooof woof, wof woooof wooof

again rises, more buoyant than in life. But the reason of this
wooof wooof, woof wooooof woof wf woof. Wof wof woooof wf woof

is obvious. Gases are generated in him; he swells to a prodigious
wf wooooof. Wooof wof wooooooof wf wof; wf woooof wf w woooooooof

magnitude; becomes a sort of animal balloon. A line-of-battle ship could
wooooooof; wooooof w woof wf woooof wooooof. W woof-wf-woooof woof wooof

hardly keep him under then. In the Shore Whaling, on soundings, among
woooof woof wof wooof woof. Wf wof Wooof Wooooof, wf wooooooof, wooof

the Bays of New Zealand, when a Right Whale gives token of sinking, they
wof Woof wf Wof Wooooof, woof w Wooof Wooof wooof wooof wf wooooof, woof

fasten buoys to him, with plenty of rope; so that when the body has gone
woooof wooof wf wof, woof woooof wf woof; wf woof woof wof woof wof woof

down, they know where to look for it when it shall have ascended again.
woof, woof woof wooof wf woof wof wf woof wf wooof woof woooooof wooof.




It was not long after the sinking of the body that a cry was heard from
Wf wof wof woof wooof wof wooooof wf wof woof woof w wof wof wooof woof

the Pequod's mast-heads, announcing that the Jungfrau was again lowering
wof Woooof'w woof-wooof, woooooooof woof wof Woooooof wof wooof woooooof

her boats; though the only spout in sight was that of a Fin-Back,
wof wooof; woooof wof woof wooof wf wooof wof woof wf w Wof-Woof,

belonging to the species of uncapturable whales, because of its
wooooooof wf wof wooooof wf woooooooooof woooof, wooooof wf wof

incredible power of swimming. Nevertheless, the Fin-Back's spout is so
woooooooof wooof wf woooooof. Woooooooooof, wof Wof-Woof'w wooof wf wf

similar to the Sperm Whale's, that by unskilful fishermen it is often
wooooof wf wof Wooof Wooof'w, woof wf wooooooof wooooooof wf wf wooof

mistaken for it. And consequently Derick and all his host were now in
woooooof wof wf. Wof woooooooooof Woooof wof wof wof woof woof wof wf

valiant chase of this unnearable brute. The Virgin crowding all sail,
wooooof wooof wf woof woooooooof wooof. Wof Woooof woooooof wof woof,

made after her four young keels, and thus they all disappeared far to
woof wooof wof woof wooof wooof, wof woof woof wof wooooooooof wof wf

leeward, still in bold, hopeful chase.
wooooof, wooof wf woof, wooooof wooof.




Oh! many are the Fin-Backs, and many are the Dericks, my friend.
Wf! woof wof wof Wof-Wooof, wof woof wof wof Wooooof, wf woooof.










CHAPTER 82. The Honour and Glory of Whaling.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Woooof wof Wooof wf Wooooof.







There are some enterprises in which a careful disorderliness is the true
Wooof wof woof wooooooooof wf wooof w wooooof woooooooooooof wf wof woof

method.
woooof.




The more I dive into this matter of whaling, and push my researches up
Wof woof W woof woof woof woooof wf wooooof, wof woof wf woooooooof wf

to the very spring-head of it so much the more am I impressed with its
wf wof woof woooof-woof wf wf wf woof wof woof wf W wooooooof woof wof

great honourableness and antiquity; and especially when I find so many
wooof woooooooooooof wof wooooooof; wof woooooooof woof W woof wf woof

great demi-gods and heroes, prophets of all sorts, who one way or other
wooof woof-woof wof woooof, woooooof wf wof wooof, wof wof wof wf wooof

have shed distinction upon it, I am transported with the reflection
woof woof wooooooooof woof wf, W wf wooooooooof woof wof woooooooof

that I myself belong, though but subordinately, to so emblazoned a
woof W woooof woooof, woooof wof wooooooooooof, wf wf woooooooof w

fraternity.
woooooooof.




The gallant Perseus, a son of Jupiter, was the first whaleman; and
Wof wooooof Wooooof, w wof wf Wooooof, wof wof wooof woooooof; wof

to the eternal honour of our calling be it said, that the first whale
wf wof wooooof woooof wf wof wooooof wf wf woof, woof wof wooof wooof

attacked by our brotherhood was not killed with any sordid intent. Those
woooooof wf wof wooooooooof wof wof woooof woof wof woooof woooof. Wooof

were the knightly days of our profession, when we only bore arms to
woof wof woooooof woof wf wof woooooooof, woof wf woof woof woof wf

succor the distressed, and not to fill men's lamp-feeders. Every one
woooof wof woooooooof, wof wof wf woof wof'w woof-wooooof. Wooof wof

knows the fine story of Perseus and Andromeda; how the lovely Andromeda,
wooof wof woof wooof wf Wooooof wof Wooooooof; wof wof woooof Wooooooof,

the daughter of a king, was tied to a rock on the sea-coast, and as
wof woooooof wf w woof, wof woof wf w woof wf wof wof-wooof, wof wf

Leviathan was in the very act of carrying her off, Perseus, the prince
Wooooooof wof wf wof woof wof wf woooooof wof wof, Wooooof, wof woooof

of whalemen, intrepidly advancing, harpooned the monster, and delivered
wf woooooof, woooooooof wooooooof, wooooooof wof wooooof, wof wooooooof

and married the maid. It was an admirable artistic exploit, rarely
wof wooooof wof woof. Wf wof wf wooooooof woooooof wooooof, woooof

achieved by the best harpooneers of the present day; inasmuch as this
woooooof wf wof woof wooooooooof wf wof wooooof wof; woooooof wf woof

Leviathan was slain at the very first dart. And let no man doubt this
Wooooooof wof wooof wf wof woof wooof woof. Wof wof wf wof wooof woof

Arkite story; for in the ancient Joppa, now Jaffa, on the Syrian coast,
Woooof wooof; wof wf wof wooooof Wooof, wof Wooof, wf wof Woooof wooof,

in one of the Pagan temples, there stood for many ages the vast skeleton
wf wof wf wof Wooof wooooof, wooof wooof wof woof woof wof woof woooooof

of a whale, which the city's legends and all the inhabitants asserted to
wf w wooof, wooof wof woof'w wooooof wof wof wof wooooooooof woooooof wf

be the identical bones of the monster that Perseus slew. When the Romans
wf wof wooooooof wooof wf wof wooooof woof Wooooof woof. Woof wof Woooof

took Joppa, the same skeleton was carried to Italy in triumph. What
woof Wooof, wof woof woooooof wof wooooof wf Wooof wf wooooof. Woof

seems most singular and suggestively important in this story, is this:
wooof woof woooooof wof woooooooooof wooooooof wf woof wooof, wf woof:

it was from Joppa that Jonah set sail.
wf wof woof Wooof woof Wooof wof woof.




Akin to the adventure of Perseus and Andromeda--indeed, by some supposed
Woof wf wof wooooooof wf Wooooof wof Wooooooof--woooof, wf woof woooooof

to be indirectly derived from it--is that famous story of St. George and
wf wf woooooooof wooooof woof wf--wf woof woooof wooof wf Wf. Woooof wof

the Dragon; which dragon I maintain to have been a whale; for in many
wof Woooof; wooof woooof W woooooof wf woof woof w wooof; wof wf woof

old chronicles whales and dragons are strangely jumbled together, and
wof woooooooof woooof wof wooooof wof wooooooof wooooof woooooof, wof

often stand for each other. "Thou art as a lion of the waters, and as a
wooof wooof wof woof wooof. "Woof wof wf w woof wf wof woooof, wof wf w

dragon of the sea," saith Ezekiel; hereby, plainly meaning a whale;
woooof wf wof wof," wooof Wooooof; woooof, wooooof wooooof w wooof;

in truth, some versions of the Bible use that word itself. Besides, it
wf wooof, woof woooooof wf wof Wooof wof woof woof woooof. Wooooof, wf

would much subtract from the glory of the exploit had St. George but
wooof woof woooooof woof wof wooof wf wof wooooof wof Wf. Woooof wof

encountered a crawling reptile of the land, instead of doing battle
wooooooooof w woooooof wooooof wf wof woof, wooooof wf wooof woooof

with the great monster of the deep. Any man may kill a snake, but only a
woof wof wooof wooooof wf wof woof. Wof wof wof woof w wooof, wof woof w

Perseus, a St. George, a Coffin, have the heart in them to march boldly
Wooooof, w Wf. Woooof, w Woooof, woof wof wooof wf woof wf wooof woooof

up to a whale.
wf wf w wooof.




Let not the modern paintings of this scene mislead us; for though
Wof wof wof woooof wooooooof wf woof wooof wooooof wf; wof woooof

the creature encountered by that valiant whaleman of old is vaguely
wof woooooof wooooooooof wf woof wooooof woooooof wf wof wf wooooof

represented of a griffin-like shape, and though the battle is depicted
wooooooooof wf w wooooof-woof wooof, wof woooof wof woooof wf woooooof

on land and the saint on horseback, yet considering the great ignorance
wf woof wof wof wooof wf wooooooof, wof wooooooooof wof wooof wooooooof

of those times, when the true form of the whale was unknown to artists;
wf wooof wooof, woof wof woof woof wf wof wooof wof wooooof wf wooooof;

and considering that as in Perseus' case, St. George's whale might have
wof wooooooooof woof wf wf Wooooof' woof, Wf. Woooof'w wooof wooof woof

crawled up out of the sea on the beach; and considering that the animal
wooooof wf wof wf wof wof wf wof wooof; wof wooooooooof woof wof woooof

ridden by St. George might have been only a large seal, or sea-horse;
woooof wf Wf. Woooof wooof woof woof woof w wooof woof, wf wof-wooof;

bearing all this in mind, it will not appear altogether incompatible
wooooof wof woof wf woof, wf woof wof woooof woooooooof woooooooooof

with the sacred legend and the ancientest draughts of the scene, to
woof wof woooof woooof wof wof woooooooof woooooof wf wof wooof, wf

hold this so-called dragon no other than the great Leviathan himself. In
woof woof wf-woooof woooof wf wooof woof wof wooof Wooooooof wooooof. Wf

fact, placed before the strict and piercing truth, this whole story will
woof, woooof woooof wof woooof wof woooooof wooof, woof wooof wooof woof

fare like that fish, flesh, and fowl idol of the Philistines, Dagon by
woof woof woof woof, wooof, wof woof woof wf wof Wooooooooof, Wooof wf

name; who being planted before the ark of Israel, his horse's head and
woof; wof wooof wooooof woooof wof wof wf Woooof, wof wooof'w woof wof

both the palms of his hands fell off from him, and only the stump or
woof wof wooof wf wof wooof woof wof woof wof, wof woof wof wooof wf

fishy part of him remained. Thus, then, one of our own noble stamp, even
wooof woof wf wof woooooof. Woof, woof, wof wf wof wof wooof wooof, woof

a whaleman, is the tutelary guardian of England; and by good rights, we
w woooooof, wf wof woooooof woooooof wf Wooooof; wof wf woof woooof, wf

harpooneers of Nantucket should be enrolled in the most noble order
wooooooooof wf Wooooooof woooof wf woooooof wf wof woof wooof wooof

of St. George. And therefore, let not the knights of that honourable
wf Wf. Woooof. Wof wooooooof, wof wof wof wooooof wf woof woooooooof

company (none of whom, I venture to say, have ever had to do with a
wooooof (woof wf woof, W wooooof wf wof, woof woof wof wf wf woof w

whale like their great patron), let them never eye a Nantucketer with
wooof woof wooof wooof woooof), wof woof wooof wof w Wooooooooof woof

disdain, since even in our woollen frocks and tarred trowsers we are
wooooof, wooof woof wf wof wooooof woooof wof woooof woooooof wf wof

much better entitled to St. George's decoration than they.
woof woooof woooooof wf Wf. Woooof'w woooooooof woof woof.




Whether to admit Hercules among us or not, concerning this I long
Wooooof wf wooof Woooooof wooof wf wf wof, woooooooof woof W woof

remained dubious: for though according to the Greek mythologies, that
woooooof wooooof: wof woooof wooooooof wf wof Wooof wooooooooof, woof

antique Crockett and Kit Carson--that brawny doer of rejoicing good
wooooof Woooooof wof Wof Woooof--woof woooof woof wf wooooooof woof

deeds, was swallowed down and thrown up by a whale; still, whether
wooof, wof wooooooof woof wof woooof wf wf w wooof; wooof, wooooof

that strictly makes a whaleman of him, that might be mooted. It nowhere
woof woooooof wooof w woooooof wf wof, woof wooof wf woooof. Wf wooooof

appears that he ever actually harpooned his fish, unless, indeed,
wooooof woof wf woof woooooof wooooooof wof woof, woooof, woooof,

from the inside. Nevertheless, he may be deemed a sort of involuntary
woof wof woooof. Woooooooooof, wf wof wf woooof w woof wf wooooooooof

whaleman; at any rate the whale caught him, if he did not the whale. I
woooooof; wf wof woof wof wooof woooof wof, wf wf wof wof wof wooof. W

claim him for one of our clan.
wooof wof wof wof wf wof woof.




But, by the best contradictory authorities, this Grecian story of
Wof, wf wof woof wooooooooooof wooooooooof, woof Wooooof wooof wf

Hercules and the whale is considered to be derived from the still more
Woooooof wof wof wooof wf woooooooof wf wf wooooof woof wof wooof woof

ancient Hebrew story of Jonah and the whale; and vice versa; certainly
wooooof Woooof wooof wf Wooof wof wof wooof; wof woof wooof; wooooooof

they are very similar. If I claim the demigod then, why not the prophet?
woof wof woof wooooof. Wf W wooof wof wooooof woof, wof wof wof wooooof?




Nor do heroes, saints, demigods, and prophets alone comprise the whole
Wof wf woooof, woooof, woooooof, wof woooooof wooof woooooof wof wooof

roll of our order. Our grand master is still to be named; for like royal
woof wf wof wooof. Wof wooof woooof wf wooof wf wf wooof; wof woof wooof

kings of old times, we find the head waters of our fraternity in nothing
wooof wf wof wooof, wf woof wof woof woooof wf wof woooooooof wf wooooof

short of the great gods themselves. That wondrous oriental story is now
wooof wf wof wooof woof woooooooof. Woof woooooof woooooof wooof wf wof

to be rehearsed from the Shaster, which gives us the dread Vishnoo, one
wf wf wooooooof woof wof Wooooof, wooof wooof wf wof wooof Wooooof, wof

of the three persons in the godhead of the Hindoos; gives us this divine
wf wof wooof wooooof wf wof wooooof wf wof Wooooof; wooof wf woof woooof

Vishnoo himself for our Lord;--Vishnoo, who, by the first of his ten
Wooooof wooooof wof wof Woof;--Wooooof, wof, wf wof wooof wf wof wof

earthly incarnations, has for ever set apart and sanctified the whale.
wooooof woooooooooof, wof wof woof wof wooof wof woooooooof wof wooof.

When Brahma, or the God of Gods, saith the Shaster, resolved to recreate
Woof Woooof, wf wof Wof wf Woof, wooof wof Wooooof, woooooof wf woooooof

the world after one of its periodical dissolutions, he gave birth to
wof wooof wooof wof wf wof woooooooof woooooooooof, wf woof wooof wf

Vishnoo, to preside over the work; but the Vedas, or mystical books,
Wooooof, wf wooooof woof wof woof; wof wof Wooof, wf woooooof wooof,

whose perusal would seem to have been indispensable to Vishnoo before
wooof wooooof wooof woof wf woof woof wooooooooooof wf Wooooof woooof

beginning the creation, and which therefore must have contained
wooooooof wof woooooof, wof wooof wooooooof woof woof wooooooof

something in the shape of practical hints to young architects, these
wooooooof wf wof wooof wf wooooooof wooof wf wooof woooooooof, wooof

Vedas were lying at the bottom of the waters; so Vishnoo became
Wooof woof wooof wf wof woooof wf wof woooof; wf Wooooof woooof

incarnate in a whale, and sounding down in him to the uttermost depths,
wooooooof wf w wooof, wof woooooof woof wf wof wf wof wooooooof woooof,

rescued the sacred volumes. Was not this Vishnoo a whaleman, then? even
wooooof wof woooof wooooof. Wof wof woof Wooooof w woooooof, woof? woof

as a man who rides a horse is called a horseman?
wf w wof wof wooof w wooof wf woooof w woooooof?




Perseus, St. George, Hercules, Jonah, and Vishnoo! there's a member-roll
Wooooof, Wf. Woooof, Woooooof, Wooof, wof Wooooof! wooof'w w woooof-woof

for you! What club but the whaleman's can head off like that?
wof wof! Woof woof wof wof woooooof'w wof woof wof woof woof?










CHAPTER 83. Jonah Historically Regarded.
WOOOOOF wf. Wooof Woooooooooof Woooooof.







Reference was made to the historical story of Jonah and the whale in the
Wooooooof wof woof wf wof woooooooof wooof wf Wooof wof wof wooof wf wof

preceding chapter. Now some Nantucketers rather distrust this historical
wooooooof wooooof. Wof woof Woooooooooof woooof woooooof woof woooooooof

story of Jonah and the whale. But then there were some sceptical Greeks
wooof wf Wooof wof wof wooof. Wof woof wooof woof woof wooooooof Woooof

and Romans, who, standing out from the orthodox pagans of their times,
wof Woooof, wof, woooooof wof woof wof woooooof woooof wf wooof wooof,

equally doubted the story of Hercules and the whale, and Arion and the
wooooof wooooof wof wooof wf Woooooof wof wof wooof, wof Wooof wof wof

dolphin; and yet their doubting those traditions did not make those
wooooof; wof wof wooof woooooof wooof woooooooof wof wof woof wooof

traditions one whit the less facts, for all that.
woooooooof wof woof wof woof wooof, wof wof woof.




One old Sag-Harbor whaleman's chief reason for questioning the Hebrew
Wof wof Wof-Woooof woooooof'w wooof woooof wof wooooooooof wof Woooof

story was this:--He had one of those quaint old-fashioned Bibles,
wooof wof woof:--Wf wof wof wf wooof woooof wof-wooooooof Woooof,

embellished with curious, unscientific plates; one of which represented
wooooooooof woof wooooof, woooooooooof woooof; wof wf wooof wooooooooof

Jonah's whale with two spouts in his head--a peculiarity only true
Wooof'w wooof woof wof woooof wf wof woof--w wooooooooof woof woof

with respect to a species of the Leviathan (the Right Whale, and the
woof wooooof wf w wooooof wf wof Wooooooof (wof Wooof Wooof, wof wof

varieties of that order), concerning which the fishermen have this
wooooooof wf woof wooof), woooooooof wooof wof wooooooof woof woof

saying, "A penny roll would choke him"; his swallow is so very small.
woooof, "W wooof woof wooof wooof wof"; wof wooooof wf wf woof wooof.

But, to this, Bishop Jebb's anticipative answer is ready. It is not
Wof, wf woof, Woooof Woof'w woooooooooof woooof wf wooof. Wf wf wof

necessary, hints the Bishop, that we consider Jonah as tombed in the
wooooooof, wooof wof Woooof, woof wf woooooof Wooof wf woooof wf wof

whale's belly, but as temporarily lodged in some part of his mouth. And
wooof'w wooof, wof wf wooooooooof woooof wf woof woof wf wof wooof. Wof

this seems reasonable enough in the good Bishop. For truly, the
woof wooof woooooooof woooof wf wof woof Woooof. Wof wooof, wof

Right Whale's mouth would accommodate a couple of whist-tables, and
Wooof Wooof'w wooof wooof wooooooooof w woooof wf wooof-woooof, wof

comfortably seat all the players. Possibly, too, Jonah might have
wooooooooof woof wof wof wooooof. Woooooof, wof, Wooof wooof woof

ensconced himself in a hollow tooth; but, on second thoughts, the Right
wooooooof wooooof wf w woooof wooof; wof, wf woooof woooooof, wof Wooof

Whale is toothless.
Wooof wf wooooooof.




Another reason which Sag-Harbor (he went by that name) urged for his
Wooooof woooof wooof Wof-Woooof (wf woof wf woof woof) wooof wof wof

want of faith in this matter of the prophet, was something obscurely in
woof wf wooof wf woof woooof wf wof wooooof, wof wooooooof wooooooof wf

reference to his incarcerated body and the whale's gastric juices. But
wooooooof wf wof woooooooooof woof wof wof wooof'w wooooof woooof. Wof

this objection likewise falls to the ground, because a German exegetist
woof wooooooof woooooof wooof wf wof woooof, wooooof w Woooof wooooooof

supposes that Jonah must have taken refuge in the floating body of a
woooooof woof Wooof woof woof wooof woooof wf wof woooooof woof wf w

DEAD whale--even as the French soldiers in the Russian campaign turned
WOOF wooof--woof wf wof Woooof woooooof wf wof Wooooof woooooof woooof

their dead horses into tents, and crawled into them. Besides, it has
wooof woof woooof woof wooof, wof wooooof woof woof. Wooooof, wf wof

been divined by other continental commentators, that when Jonah was
woof wooooof wf wooof wooooooooof woooooooooof, woof woof Wooof wof

thrown overboard from the Joppa ship, he straightway effected his escape
woooof wooooooof woof wof Wooof woof, wf wooooooooof woooooof wof woooof

to another vessel near by, some vessel with a whale for a figure-head;
wf wooooof woooof woof wf, woof woooof woof w wooof wof w woooof-woof;

and, I would add, possibly called "The Whale," as some craft are
wof, W wooof wof, woooooof woooof "Wof Wooof," wf woof wooof wof

nowadays christened the "Shark," the "Gull," the "Eagle." Nor have there
woooooof woooooooof wof "Wooof," wof "Woof," wof "Wooof." Wof woof wooof

been wanting learned exegetists who have opined that the whale mentioned
woof wooooof wooooof woooooooof wof woof woooof woof wof wooof wooooooof

in the book of Jonah merely meant a life-preserver--an inflated bag
wf wof woof wf Wooof woooof wooof w woof-wooooooof--wf woooooof wof

of wind--which the endangered prophet swam to, and so was saved from a
wf woof--wooof wof woooooooof wooooof woof wf, wof wf wof wooof woof w

watery doom. Poor Sag-Harbor, therefore, seems worsted all round. But
woooof woof. Woof Wof-Woooof, wooooooof, wooof wooooof wof wooof. Wof

he had still another reason for his want of faith. It was this, if I
wf wof wooof wooooof woooof wof wof woof wf wooof. Wf wof woof, wf W

remember right: Jonah was swallowed by the whale in the Mediterranean
woooooof wooof: Wooof wof wooooooof wf wof wooof wf wof Wooooooooooof

Sea, and after three days he was vomited up somewhere within three days'
Wof, wof wooof wooof woof wf wof wooooof wf wooooooof woooof wooof woof'

journey of Nineveh, a city on the Tigris, very much more than three
wooooof wf Wooooof, w woof wf wof Woooof, woof woof woof woof wooof

days' journey across from the nearest point of the Mediterranean coast.
woof' wooooof woooof woof wof wooooof wooof wf wof Wooooooooooof wooof.

How is that?
Wof wf woof?




But was there no other way for the whale to land the prophet within that
Wof wof wooof wf wooof wof wof wof wooof wf woof wof wooooof woooof woof

short distance of Nineveh? Yes. He might have carried him round by the
wooof woooooof wf Wooooof? Wof. Wf wooof woof wooooof wof wooof wf wof

way of the Cape of Good Hope. But not to speak of the passage through
wof wf wof Woof wf Woof Woof. Wof wof wf wooof wf wof wooooof wooooof

the whole length of the Mediterranean, and another passage up the
wof wooof woooof wf wof Wooooooooooof, wof wooooof wooooof wf wof

Persian Gulf and Red Sea, such a supposition would involve the complete
Wooooof Woof wof Wof Wof, woof w wooooooooof wooof wooooof wof woooooof

circumnavigation of all Africa in three days, not to speak of the Tigris
woooooooooooooof wf wof Woooof wf wooof woof, wof wf wooof wf wof Woooof

waters, near the site of Nineveh, being too shallow for any whale to
woooof, woof wof woof wf Wooooof, wooof wof wooooof wof wof wooof wf

swim in. Besides, this idea of Jonah's weathering the Cape of Good Hope
woof wf. Wooooof, woof woof wf Wooof'w woooooooof wof Woof wf Woof Woof

at so early a day would wrest the honour of the discovery of that great
wf wf wooof w wof wooof wooof wof woooof wf wof wooooooof wf woof wooof

headland from Bartholomew Diaz, its reputed discoverer, and so make
woooooof woof Wooooooooof Woof, wof wooooof woooooooof, wof wf woof

modern history a liar.
woooof wooooof w woof.




But all these foolish arguments of old Sag-Harbor only evinced his
Wof wof wooof wooooof wooooooof wf wof Wof-Woooof woof wooooof wof

foolish pride of reason--a thing still more reprehensible in him, seeing
wooooof wooof wf woooof--w wooof wooof woof wooooooooooof wf wof, woooof

that he had but little learning except what he had picked up from the
woof wf wof wof woooof woooooof woooof woof wf wof woooof wf woof wof

sun and the sea. I say it only shows his foolish, impious pride, and
wof wof wof wof. W wof wf woof wooof wof wooooof, wooooof wooof, wof

abominable, devilish rebellion against the reverend clergy. For by a
woooooooof, woooooof wooooooof wooooof wof woooooof woooof. Wof wf w

Portuguese Catholic priest, this very idea of Jonah's going to Nineveh
Woooooooof Woooooof woooof, woof woof woof wf Wooof'w wooof wf Wooooof

via the Cape of Good Hope was advanced as a signal magnification of
wof wof Woof wf Woof Woof wof woooooof wf w woooof wooooooooooof wf

the general miracle. And so it was. Besides, to this day, the highly
wof wooooof wooooof. Wof wf wf wof. Wooooof, wf woof wof, wof woooof

enlightened Turks devoutly believe in the historical story of Jonah. And
wooooooooof Wooof woooooof wooooof wf wof woooooooof wooof wf Wooof. Wof

some three centuries ago, an English traveller in old Harris's Voyages,
woof wooof wooooooof wof, wf Wooooof wooooooof wf wof Woooof'w Wooooof,

speaks of a Turkish Mosque built in honour of Jonah, in which Mosque was
woooof wf w Wooooof Woooof wooof wf woooof wf Wooof, wf wooof Woooof wof

a miraculous lamp that burnt without any oil.
w woooooooof woof woof wooof wooooof wof wof.










CHAPTER 84. Pitchpoling.
WOOOOOF wf. Wooooooooof.







To make them run easily and swiftly, the axles of carriages are
Wf woof woof wof woooof wof wooooof, wof wooof wf wooooooof wof

anointed; and for much the same purpose, some whalers perform an
woooooof; wof wof woof wof woof wooooof, woof wooooof wooooof wf

analogous operation upon their boat; they grease the bottom. Nor is it
wooooooof wooooooof woof wooof woof; woof woooof wof woooof. Wof wf wf

to be doubted that as such a procedure can do no harm, it may possibly
wf wf wooooof woof wf woof w wooooooof wof wf wf woof, wf wof woooooof

be of no contemptible advantage; considering that oil and water are
wf wf wf woooooooooof wooooooof; wooooooooof woof wof wof wooof wof

hostile; that oil is a sliding thing, and that the object in view is to
wooooof; woof wof wf w wooooof wooof, wof woof wof woooof wf woof wf wf

make the boat slide bravely. Queequeg believed strongly in anointing
woof wof woof wooof wooooof. Woooooof woooooof woooooof wf wooooooof

his boat, and one morning not long after the German ship Jungfrau
wof woof, wof wof wooooof wof woof wooof wof Woooof woof Woooooof

disappeared, took more than customary pains in that occupation; crawling
wooooooooof, woof woof woof wooooooof wooof wf woof woooooooof; woooooof

under its bottom, where it hung over the side, and rubbing in the
wooof wof woooof, wooof wf woof woof wof woof, wof wooooof wf wof

unctuousness as though diligently seeking to insure a crop of hair from
woooooooooof wf woooof woooooooof wooooof wf woooof w woof wf woof woof

the craft's bald keel. He seemed to be working in obedience to some
wof wooof'w woof woof. Wf woooof wf wf wooooof wf wooooooof wf woof

particular presentiment. Nor did it remain unwarranted by the event.
woooooooof woooooooooof. Wof wof wf woooof wooooooooof wf wof wooof.




Towards noon whales were raised; but so soon as the ship sailed down to
Wooooof woof woooof woof woooof; wof wf woof wf wof woof woooof woof wf

them, they turned and fled with swift precipitancy; a disordered flight,
woof, woof woooof wof woof woof wooof woooooooooof; w woooooooof woooof,

as of Cleopatra's barges from Actium.
wf wf Wooooooof'w woooof woof Woooof.




Nevertheless, the boats pursued, and Stubb's was foremost. By great
Woooooooooof, wof wooof wooooof, wof Wooof'w wof woooooof. Wf wooof

exertion, Tashtego at last succeeded in planting one iron; but the
woooooof, Woooooof wf woof wooooooof wf woooooof wof woof; wof wof

stricken whale, without at all sounding, still continued his horizontal
woooooof wooof, wooooof wf wof woooooof, wooof wooooooof wof woooooooof

flight, with added fleetness. Such unintermitted strainings upon the
woooof, woof wooof wooooooof. Woof wooooooooooof woooooooof woof wof

planted iron must sooner or later inevitably extract it. It became
wooooof woof woof woooof wf wooof woooooooof wooooof wf. Wf woooof

imperative to lance the flying whale, or be content to lose him. But
woooooooof wf wooof wof woooof wooof, wf wf wooooof wf woof wof. Wof

to haul the boat up to his flank was impossible, he swam so fast and
wf woof wof woof wf wf wof wooof wof woooooooof, wf woof wf woof wof

furious. What then remained?
wooooof. Woof woof woooooof?




Of all the wondrous devices and dexterities, the sleights of hand and
Wf wof wof woooooof wooooof wof wooooooooof, wof woooooof wf woof wof

countless subtleties, to which the veteran whaleman is so often forced,
wooooooof woooooooof, wf wooof wof wooooof woooooof wf wf wooof woooof,

none exceed that fine manoeuvre with the lance called pitchpoling. Small
woof woooof woof woof wooooooof woof wof wooof woooof wooooooooof. Wooof

sword, or broad sword, in all its exercises boasts nothing like it. It
wooof, wf wooof wooof, wf wof wof wooooooof woooof wooooof woof wf. Wf

is only indispensable with an inveterate running whale; its grand
wf woof wooooooooooof woof wf woooooooof wooooof wooof; wof wooof

fact and feature is the wonderful distance to which the long lance is
woof wof wooooof wf wof wooooooof woooooof wf wooof wof woof wooof wf

accurately darted from a violently rocking, jerking boat, under extreme
woooooooof woooof woof w wooooooof wooooof, wooooof woof, wooof wooooof

headway. Steel and wood included, the entire spear is some ten or twelve
wooooof. Wooof wof woof woooooof, wof woooof wooof wf woof wof wf woooof

feet in length; the staff is much slighter than that of the harpoon,
woof wf woooof; wof wooof wf woof woooooof woof woof wf wof wooooof,

and also of a lighter material--pine. It is furnished with a small rope
wof woof wf w wooooof woooooof--woof. Wf wf wooooooof woof w wooof woof

called a warp, of considerable length, by which it can be hauled back to
woooof w woof, wf woooooooooof woooof, wf wooof wf wof wf woooof woof wf

the hand after darting.
wof woof wooof wooooof.




But before going further, it is important to mention here, that though
Wof woooof wooof wooooof, wf wf wooooooof wf wooooof woof, woof woooof

the harpoon may be pitchpoled in the same way with the lance, yet it
wof wooooof wof wf woooooooof wf wof woof wof woof wof wooof, wof wf

is seldom done; and when done, is still less frequently successful,
wf woooof woof; wof woof woof, wf wooof woof woooooooof woooooooof,

on account of the greater weight and inferior length of the harpoon as
wf wooooof wf wof wooooof woooof wof woooooof woooof wf wof wooooof wf

compared with the lance, which in effect become serious drawbacks. As a
woooooof woof wof wooof, wooof wf woooof woooof wooooof wooooooof. Wf w

general thing, therefore, you must first get fast to a whale, before any
wooooof wooof, wooooooof, wof woof wooof wof woof wf w wooof, woooof wof

pitchpoling comes into play.
wooooooooof wooof woof woof.




Look now at Stubb; a man who from his humorous, deliberate coolness and
Woof wof wf Wooof; w wof wof woof wof woooooof, woooooooof woooooof wof

equanimity in the direst emergencies, was specially qualified to excel
woooooooof wf wof woooof wooooooooof, wof wooooooof wooooooof wf wooof

in pitchpoling. Look at him; he stands upright in the tossed bow of the
wf wooooooooof. Woof wf wof; wf woooof wooooof wf wof woooof wof wf wof

flying boat; wrapt in fleecy foam, the towing whale is forty feet ahead.
woooof woof; wooof wf woooof woof, wof woooof wooof wf wooof woof wooof.

Handling the long lance lightly, glancing twice or thrice along its
Woooooof wof woof wooof wooooof, woooooof wooof wf woooof wooof wof

length to see if it be exactly straight, Stubb whistlingly gathers up
woooof wf wof wf wf wf wooooof woooooof, Wooof wooooooooof wooooof wf

the coil of the warp in one hand, so as to secure its free end in his
wof woof wf wof woof wf wof woof, wf wf wf woooof wof woof wof wf wof

grasp, leaving the rest unobstructed. Then holding the lance full before
wooof, wooooof wof woof woooooooooof. Woof wooooof wof wooof woof woooof

his waistband's middle, he levels it at the whale; when, covering
wof wooooooof'w woooof, wf woooof wf wf wof wooof; woof, woooooof

him with it, he steadily depresses the butt-end in his hand, thereby
wof woof wf, wf woooooof wooooooof wof woof-wof wf wof woof, wooooof

elevating the point till the weapon stands fairly balanced upon his
wooooooof wof wooof woof wof woooof woooof woooof woooooof woof wof

palm, fifteen feet in the air. He minds you somewhat of a juggler,
woof, wooooof woof wf wof wof. Wf wooof wof woooooof wf w wooooof,

balancing a long staff on his chin. Next moment with a rapid, nameless
wooooooof w woof wooof wf wof woof. Woof woooof woof w wooof, woooooof

impulse, in a superb lofty arch the bright steel spans the foaming
wooooof, wf w woooof wooof woof wof woooof wooof wooof wof wooooof

distance, and quivers in the life spot of the whale. Instead of
woooooof, wof wooooof wf wof woof woof wf wof wooof. Wooooof wf

sparkling water, he now spouts red blood.
wooooooof wooof, wf wof woooof wof wooof.




"That drove the spigot out of him!" cried Stubb. "'Tis July's immortal
"Woof wooof wof woooof wof wf wof!" wooof Wooof. "'Wof Woof'w woooooof

Fourth; all fountains must run wine today! Would now, it were old
Woooof; wof wooooooof woof wof woof wooof! Wooof wof, wf woof wof

Orleans whiskey, or old Ohio, or unspeakable old Monongahela! Then,
Wooooof wooooof, wf wof Woof, wf wooooooooof wof Wooooooooof! Woof,

Tashtego, lad, I'd have ye hold a canakin to the jet, and we'd drink
Woooooof, wof, W'w woof wf woof w wooooof wf wof wof, wof wf'w wooof

round it! Yea, verily, hearts alive, we'd brew choice punch in the
wooof wf! Wof, woooof, woooof wooof, wf'w woof woooof wooof wf wof

spread of his spout-hole there, and from that live punch-bowl quaff the
woooof wf wof wooof-woof wooof, wof woof woof woof wooof-woof wooof wof

living stuff."
woooof wooof."




Again and again to such gamesome talk, the dexterous dart is repeated,
Wooof wof wooof wf woof woooooof woof, wof wooooooof woof wf woooooof,

the spear returning to its master like a greyhound held in skilful
wof wooof wooooooof wf wof woooof woof w wooooooof woof wf wooooof

leash. The agonized whale goes into his flurry; the tow-line is
wooof. Wof woooooof wooof woof woof wof woooof; wof wof-woof wf

slackened, and the pitchpoler dropping astern, folds his hands, and
wooooooof, wof wof woooooooof woooooof woooof, wooof wof wooof, wof

mutely watches the monster die.
woooof wooooof wof wooooof wof.










CHAPTER 85. The Fountain.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Woooooof.







That for six thousand years--and no one knows how many millions of ages
Woof wof wof woooooof wooof--wof wf wof wooof wof woof woooooof wf woof

before--the great whales should have been spouting all over the sea,
woooof--wof wooof woooof woooof woof woof woooooof wof woof wof wof,

and sprinkling and mistifying the gardens of the deep, as with so
wof woooooooof wof woooooooof wof wooooof wf wof woof, wf woof wf

many sprinkling or mistifying pots; and that for some centuries back,
woof woooooooof wf woooooooof woof; wof woof wof woof wooooooof woof,

thousands of hunters should have been close by the fountain of the
wooooooof wf wooooof woooof woof woof wooof wf wof woooooof wf wof

whale, watching these sprinklings and spoutings--that all this should
wooof, woooooof wooof wooooooooof wof wooooooof--woof wof woof woooof

be, and yet, that down to this blessed minute (fifteen and a quarter
wf, wof wof, woof woof wf woof wooooof woooof (wooooof wof w wooooof

minutes past one o'clock P.M. of this sixteenth day of December, A.D.
wooooof woof wof w'wooof W.W. wf woof wooooooof wof wf Woooooof, W.W.

1851), it should still remain a problem, whether these spoutings
woof), wf woooof wooof woooof w wooooof, wooooof wooof wooooooof

are, after all, really water, or nothing but vapour--this is surely a
wof, wooof wof, woooof wooof, wf wooooof wof woooof--woof wf woooof w

noteworthy thing.
woooooooof wooof.




Let us, then, look at this matter, along with some interesting items
Wof wf, woof, woof wf woof woooof, wooof woof woof wooooooooof wooof

contingent. Every one knows that by the peculiar cunning of their
woooooooof. Wooof wof wooof woof wf wof woooooof wooooof wf wooof

gills, the finny tribes in general breathe the air which at all times is
wooof, wof wooof woooof wf wooooof wooooof wof wof wooof wf wof wooof wf

combined with the element in which they swim; hence, a herring or a cod
woooooof woof wof wooooof wf wooof woof woof; wooof, w wooooof wf w wof

might live a century, and never once raise its head above the surface.
wooof woof w wooooof, wof wooof woof wooof wof woof wooof wof wooooof.

But owing to his marked internal structure which gives him regular
Wof wooof wf wof woooof woooooof wooooooof wooof wooof wof wooooof

lungs, like a human being's, the whale can only live by inhaling the
wooof, woof w wooof wooof'w, wof wooof wof woof woof wf woooooof wof

disengaged air in the open atmosphere. Wherefore the necessity for
woooooooof wof wf wof woof woooooooof. Wooooooof wof wooooooof wof

his periodical visits to the upper world. But he cannot in any degree
wof woooooooof woooof wf wof wooof wooof. Wof wf woooof wf wof woooof

breathe through his mouth, for, in his ordinary attitude, the Sperm
wooooof wooooof wof wooof, wof, wf wof woooooof woooooof, wof Wooof

Whale's mouth is buried at least eight feet beneath the surface; and
Wooof'w wooof wf woooof wf wooof wooof woof wooooof wof wooooof; wof

what is still more, his windpipe has no connexion with his mouth. No, he
woof wf wooof woof, wof woooooof wof wf wooooooof woof wof wooof. Wf, wf

breathes through his spiracle alone; and this is on the top of his head.
woooooof wooooof wof woooooof wooof; wof woof wf wf wof wof wf wof woof.




If I say, that in any creature breathing is only a function
Wf W wof, woof wf wof woooooof wooooooof wf woof w woooooof

indispensable to vitality, inasmuch as it withdraws from the air a
wooooooooooof wf woooooof, woooooof wf wf wooooooof woof wof wof w

certain element, which being subsequently brought into contact with the
wooooof wooooof, wooof wooof woooooooooof wooooof woof wooooof woof wof

blood imparts to the blood its vivifying principle, I do not think I
wooof wooooof wf wof wooof wof wooooooof wooooooof, W wf wof wooof W

shall err; though I may possibly use some superfluous scientific words.
wooof wof; woooof W wof woooooof wof woof wooooooooof woooooooof wooof.

Assume it, and it follows that if all the blood in a man could be
Woooof wf, wof wf wooooof woof wf wof wof wooof wf w wof wooof wf

aerated with one breath, he might then seal up his nostrils and not
wooooof woof wof woooof, wf wooof woof woof wf wof woooooof wof wof

fetch another for a considerable time. That is to say, he would then
wooof wooooof wof w woooooooooof woof. Woof wf wf wof, wf wooof woof

live without breathing. Anomalous as it may seem, this is precisely the
woof wooooof wooooooof. Wooooooof wf wf wof woof, woof wf wooooooof wof

case with the whale, who systematically lives, by intervals, his full
woof woof wof wooof, wof woooooooooooof wooof, wf wooooooof, wof woof

hour and more (when at the bottom) without drawing a single breath, or
woof wof woof (woof wf wof woooof) wooooof wooooof w woooof woooof, wf

so much as in any way inhaling a particle of air; for, remember, he has
wf woof wf wf wof wof woooooof w woooooof wf wof; wof, woooooof, wf wof

no gills. How is this? Between his ribs and on each side of his spine
wf wooof. Wof wf woof? Wooooof wof woof wof wf woof woof wf wof wooof

he is supplied with a remarkable involved Cretan labyrinth of
wf wf woooooof woof w woooooooof woooooof Woooof wooooooof wf

vermicelli-like vessels, which vessels, when he quits the surface, are
woooooooof-woof wooooof, wooof wooooof, woof wf wooof wof wooooof, wof

completely distended with oxygenated blood. So that for an hour or more,
woooooooof wooooooof woof woooooooof wooof. Wf woof wof wf woof wf woof,

a thousand fathoms in the sea, he carries a surplus stock of vitality in
w woooooof wooooof wf wof wof, wf wooooof w wooooof wooof wf woooooof wf

him, just as the camel crossing the waterless desert carries a surplus
wof, woof wf wof wooof woooooof wof wooooooof woooof wooooof w wooooof

supply of drink for future use in its four supplementary stomachs.
woooof wf wooof wof woooof wof wf wof woof wooooooooooof woooooof.

The anatomical fact of this labyrinth is indisputable; and that the
Wof woooooooof woof wf woof wooooooof wf woooooooooof; wof woof wof

supposition founded upon it is reasonable and true, seems the more
wooooooooof wooooof woof wf wf woooooooof wof woof, wooof wof woof

cogent to me, when I consider the otherwise inexplicable obstinacy of
woooof wf wf, woof W woooooof wof wooooooof woooooooooof wooooooof wf

that leviathan in HAVING HIS SPOUTINGS OUT, as the fishermen phrase
woof wooooooof wf WOOOOF WOF WOOOOOOOF WOF, wf wof wooooooof woooof

it. This is what I mean. If unmolested, upon rising to the surface, the
wf. Woof wf woof W woof. Wf woooooooof, woof woooof wf wof wooooof, wof

Sperm Whale will continue there for a period of time exactly uniform
Wooof Wooof woof woooooof wooof wof w woooof wf woof wooooof wooooof

with all his other unmolested risings. Say he stays eleven minutes, and
woof wof wof wooof woooooooof wooooof. Wof wf wooof woooof wooooof, wof

jets seventy times, that is, respires seventy breaths; then whenever he
woof wooooof wooof, woof wf, woooooof wooooof wooooof; woof woooooof wf

rises again, he will be sure to have his seventy breaths over again, to
wooof wooof, wf woof wf woof wf woof wof wooooof wooooof woof wooof, wf

a minute. Now, if after he fetches a few breaths you alarm him, so that
w woooof. Wof, wf wooof wf wooooof w wof wooooof wof wooof wof, wf woof

he sounds, he will be always dodging up again to make good his regular
wf woooof, wf woof wf woooof wooooof wf wooof wf woof woof wof wooooof

allowance of air. And not till those seventy breaths are told, will he
wooooooof wf wof. Wof wof woof wooof wooooof wooooof wof woof, woof wf

finally go down to stay out his full term below. Remark, however, that
wooooof wf woof wf woof wof wof woof woof wooof. Woooof, wooooof, woof

in different individuals these rates are different; but in any one
wf wooooooof wooooooooof wooof wooof wof wooooooof; wof wf wof wof

they are alike. Now, why should the whale thus insist upon having his
woof wof wooof. Wof, wof woooof wof wooof woof woooof woof woooof wof

spoutings out, unless it be to replenish his reservoir of air, ere
wooooooof wof, woooof wf wf wf wooooooof wof wooooooof wf wof, wof

descending for good? How obvious is it, too, that this necessity for the
woooooooof wof woof? Wof wooooof wf wf, wof, woof woof wooooooof wof wof

whale's rising exposes him to all the fatal hazards of the chase. For
wooof'w woooof wooooof wof wf wof wof wooof wooooof wf wof wooof. Wof

not by hook or by net could this vast leviathan be caught, when sailing
wof wf woof wf wf wof wooof woof woof wooooooof wf woooof, woof wooooof

a thousand fathoms beneath the sunlight. Not so much thy skill, then, O
w woooooof wooooof wooooof wof woooooof. Wof wf woof wof wooof, woof, W

hunter, as the great necessities that strike the victory to thee!
woooof, wf wof wooof wooooooooof woof woooof wof wooooof wf woof!




In man, breathing is incessantly going on--one breath only serving
Wf wof, wooooooof wf wooooooooof wooof wf--wof woooof woof wooooof

for two or three pulsations; so that whatever other business he has to
wof wof wf wooof woooooooof; wf woof woooooof wooof woooooof wf wof wf

attend to, waking or sleeping, breathe he must, or die he will. But the
woooof wf, woooof wf woooooof, wooooof wf woof, wf wof wf woof. Wof wof

Sperm Whale only breathes about one seventh or Sunday of his time.
Wooof Wooof woof woooooof wooof wof wooooof wf Woooof wf wof woof.




It has been said that the whale only breathes through his spout-hole; if
Wf wof woof woof woof wof wooof woof woooooof wooooof wof wooof-woof; wf

it could truthfully be added that his spouts are mixed with water, then
wf wooof woooooooof wf wooof woof wof woooof wof wooof woof wooof, woof

I opine we should be furnished with the reason why his sense of smell
W wooof wf woooof wf wooooooof woof wof woooof wof wof wooof wf wooof

seems obliterated in him; for the only thing about him that at all
wooof wooooooooof wf wof; wof wof woof wooof wooof wof woof wf wof

answers to his nose is that identical spout-hole; and being so clogged
wooooof wf wof woof wf woof wooooooof wooof-woof; wof wooof wf wooooof

with two elements, it could not be expected to have the power of
woof wof woooooof, wf wooof wof wf woooooof wf woof wof wooof wf

smelling. But owing to the mystery of the spout--whether it be water or
woooooof. Wof wooof wf wof wooooof wf wof wooof--wooooof wf wf wooof wf

whether it be vapour--no absolute certainty can as yet be arrived at on
wooooof wf wf woooof--wf woooooof wooooooof wof wf wof wf wooooof wf wf

this head. Sure it is, nevertheless, that the Sperm Whale has no proper
woof woof. Woof wf wf, woooooooooof, woof wof Wooof Wooof wof wf woooof

olfactories. But what does he want of them? No roses, no violets, no
wooooooooof. Wof woof woof wf woof wf woof? Wf wooof, wf wooooof, wf

Cologne-water in the sea.
Wooooof-wooof wf wof wof.




Furthermore, as his windpipe solely opens into the tube of his spouting
Wooooooooof, wf wof woooooof woooof wooof woof wof woof wf wof woooooof

canal, and as that long canal--like the grand Erie Canal--is furnished
wooof, wof wf woof woof wooof--woof wof wooof Woof Wooof--wf wooooooof

with a sort of locks (that open and shut) for the downward retention of
woof w woof wf wooof (woof woof wof woof) wof wof woooooof wooooooof wf

air or the upward exclusion of water, therefore the whale has no voice;
wof wf wof woooof wooooooof wf wooof, wooooooof wof wooof wof wf wooof;

unless you insult him by saying, that when he so strangely rumbles,
woooof wof woooof wof wf woooof, woof woof wf wf wooooooof wooooof,

he talks through his nose. But then again, what has the whale to say?
wf wooof wooooof wof woof. Wof woof wooof, woof wof wof wooof wf wof?

Seldom have I known any profound being that had anything to say to
Woooof woof W wooof wof woooooof wooof woof wof woooooof wf wof wf

this world, unless forced to stammer out something by way of getting a
woof wooof, woooof woooof wf wooooof wof wooooooof wf wof wf wooooof w

living. Oh! happy that the world is such an excellent listener!
woooof. Wf! wooof woof wof wooof wf woof wf wooooooof woooooof!




Now, the spouting canal of the Sperm Whale, chiefly intended as it
Wof, wof woooooof wooof wf wof Wooof Wooof, wooooof woooooof wf wf

is for the conveyance of air, and for several feet laid along,
wf wof wof woooooooof wf wof, wof wof wooooof woof woof wooof,

horizontally, just beneath the upper surface of his head, and a little
woooooooooof, woof wooooof wof wooof wooooof wf wof woof, wof w woooof

to one side; this curious canal is very much like a gas-pipe laid down
wf wof woof; woof wooooof wooof wf woof woof woof w wof-woof woof woof

in a city on one side of a street. But the question returns whether this
wf w woof wf wof woof wf w woooof. Wof wof woooooof wooooof wooooof woof

gas-pipe is also a water-pipe; in other words, whether the spout of the
wof-woof wf woof w wooof-woof; wf wooof wooof, wooooof wof wooof wf wof

Sperm Whale is the mere vapour of the exhaled breath, or whether that
Wooof Wooof wf wof woof woooof wf wof wooooof woooof, wf wooooof woof

exhaled breath is mixed with water taken in at the mouth, and
wooooof woooof wf wooof woof wooof wooof wf wf wof wooof, wof

discharged through the spiracle. It is certain that the mouth indirectly
woooooooof wooooof wof woooooof. Wf wf wooooof woof wof wooof woooooooof

communicates with the spouting canal; but it cannot be proved that this
woooooooooof woof wof woooooof wooof; wof wf woooof wf woooof woof woof

is for the purpose of discharging water through the spiracle. Because
wf wof wof wooooof wf wooooooooof wooof wooooof wof woooooof. Wooooof

the greatest necessity for so doing would seem to be, when in feeding he
wof woooooof wooooooof wof wf wooof wooof woof wf wf, woof wf wooooof wf

accidentally takes in water. But the Sperm Whale's food is far beneath
woooooooooof wooof wf wooof. Wof wof Wooof Wooof'w woof wf wof wooooof

the surface, and there he cannot spout even if he would. Besides, if
wof wooooof, wof wooof wf woooof wooof woof wf wf wooof. Wooooof, wf

you regard him very closely, and time him with your watch, you will find
wof woooof wof woof wooooof, wof woof wof woof woof wooof, wof woof woof

that when unmolested, there is an undeviating rhyme between the periods
woof woof woooooooof, wooof wf wf wooooooooof wooof wooooof wof wooooof

of his jets and the ordinary periods of respiration.
wf wof woof wof wof woooooof wooooof wf wooooooooof.




But why pester one with all this reasoning on the subject? Speak out!
Wof wof woooof wof woof wof woof wooooooof wf wof wooooof? Wooof wof!

You have seen him spout; then declare what the spout is; can you not
Wof woof woof wof wooof; woof wooooof woof wof wooof wf; wof wof wof

tell water from air? My dear sir, in this world it is not so easy to
woof wooof woof wof? Wf woof wof, wf woof wooof wf wf wof wf woof wf

settle these plain things. I have ever found your plain things the
woooof wooof wooof woooof. W woof woof wooof woof wooof woooof wof

knottiest of all. And as for this whale spout, you might almost stand in
wooooooof wf wof. Wof wf wof woof wooof wooof, wof wooof woooof wooof wf

it, and yet be undecided as to what it is precisely.
wf, wof wof wf wooooooof wf wf woof wf wf wooooooof.




The central body of it is hidden in the snowy sparkling mist enveloping
Wof wooooof woof wf wf wf woooof wf wof wooof wooooooof woof woooooooof

it; and how can you certainly tell whether any water falls from it,
wf; wof wof wof wof wooooooof woof wooooof wof wooof wooof woof wf,

when, always, when you are close enough to a whale to get a close view
woof, woooof, woof wof wof wooof woooof wf w wooof wf wof w wooof woof

of his spout, he is in a prodigious commotion, the water cascading
wf wof wooof, wf wf wf w woooooooof wooooooof, wof wooof wooooooof

all around him. And if at such times you should think that you really
wof woooof wof. Wof wf wf woof wooof wof woooof wooof woof wof woooof

perceived drops of moisture in the spout, how do you know that they are
wooooooof wooof wf woooooof wf wof wooof, wof wf wof woof woof woof wof

not merely condensed from its vapour; or how do you know that they
wof woooof wooooooof woof wof woooof; wf wof wf wof woof woof woof

are not those identical drops superficially lodged in the spout-hole
wof wof wooof wooooooof wooof wooooooooooof woooof wf wof wooof-woof

fissure, which is countersunk into the summit of the whale's head? For
wooooof, wooof wf wooooooooof woof wof woooof wf wof wooof'w woof? Wof

even when tranquilly swimming through the mid-day sea in a calm, with
woof woof woooooooof woooooof wooooof wof wof-wof wof wf w woof, woof

his elevated hump sun-dried as a dromedary's in the desert; even then,
wof woooooof woof wof-wooof wf w wooooooof'w wf wof woooof; woof woof,

the whale always carries a small basin of water on his head, as under
wof wooof woooof wooooof w wooof wooof wf wooof wf wof woof, wf wooof

a blazing sun you will sometimes see a cavity in a rock filled up with
w wooooof wof wof woof wooooooof wof w woooof wf w woof woooof wf woof

rain.
woof.




Nor is it at all prudent for the hunter to be over curious touching the
Wof wf wf wf wof wooooof wof wof woooof wf wf woof wooooof woooooof wof

precise nature of the whale spout. It will not do for him to be peering
wooooof woooof wf wof wooof wooof. Wf woof wof wf wof wof wf wf wooooof

into it, and putting his face in it. You cannot go with your pitcher to
woof wf, wof wooooof wof woof wf wf. Wof woooof wf woof woof wooooof wf

this fountain and fill it, and bring it away. For even when coming into
woof woooooof wof woof wf, wof wooof wf woof. Wof woof woof woooof woof

slight contact with the outer, vapoury shreds of the jet, which will
woooof wooooof woof wof wooof, wooooof woooof wf wof wof, wooof woof

often happen, your skin will feverishly smart, from the acridness of
wooof woooof, woof woof woof woooooooof wooof, woof wof wooooooof wf

the thing so touching it. And I know one, who coming into still closer
wof wooof wf woooooof wf. Wof W woof wof, wof woooof woof wooof woooof

contact with the spout, whether with some scientific object in view,
wooooof woof wof wooof, wooooof woof woof woooooooof woooof wf woof,

or otherwise, I cannot say, the skin peeled off from his cheek and arm.
wf wooooooof, W woooof wof, wof woof woooof wof woof wof wooof wof wof.

Wherefore, among whalemen, the spout is deemed poisonous; they try to
Wooooooof, wooof woooooof, wof wooof wf woooof wooooooof; woof wof wf

evade it. Another thing; I have heard it said, and I do not much doubt
wooof wf. Wooooof wooof; W woof wooof wf woof, wof W wf wof woof wooof

it, that if the jet is fairly spouted into your eyes, it will blind you.
wf, woof wf wof wof wf woooof wooooof woof woof woof, wf woof wooof wof.

The wisest thing the investigator can do then, it seems to me, is to let
Wof woooof wooof wof woooooooooof wof wf woof, wf wooof wf wf, wf wf wof

this deadly spout alone.
woof woooof wooof wooof.




Still, we can hypothesize, even if we cannot prove and establish. My
Wooof, wf wof wooooooooof, woof wf wf woooof wooof wof wooooooof. Wf

hypothesis is this: that the spout is nothing but mist. And besides
woooooooof wf woof: woof wof wooof wf wooooof wof woof. Wof wooooof

other reasons, to this conclusion I am impelled, by considerations
wooof wooooof, wf woof woooooooof W wf woooooof, wf woooooooooooof

touching the great inherent dignity and sublimity of the Sperm Whale;
woooooof wof wooof woooooof wooooof wof wooooooof wf wof Wooof Wooof;

I account him no common, shallow being, inasmuch as it is an undisputed
W wooooof wof wf woooof, wooooof wooof, woooooof wf wf wf wf woooooooof

fact that he is never found on soundings, or near shores; all other
woof woof wf wf wooof wooof wf wooooooof, wf woof woooof; wof wooof

whales sometimes are. He is both ponderous and profound. And I am
woooof wooooooof wof. Wf wf woof wooooooof wof woooooof. Wof W wf

convinced that from the heads of all ponderous profound beings, such as
wooooooof woof woof wof wooof wf wof wooooooof woooooof woooof, woof wf

Plato, Pyrrho, the Devil, Jupiter, Dante, and so on, there always goes
Wooof, Woooof, wof Wooof, Wooooof, Wooof, wof wf wf, wooof woooof woof

up a certain semi-visible steam, while in the act of thinking deep
wf w wooooof woof-wooooof wooof, wooof wf wof wof wf woooooof woof

thoughts. While composing a little treatise on Eternity, I had the
woooooof. Wooof wooooooof w woooof woooooof wf Woooooof, W wof wof

curiosity to place a mirror before me; and ere long saw reflected there,
wooooooof wf wooof w woooof woooof wf; wof wof woof wof wooooooof wooof,

a curious involved worming and undulation in the atmosphere over my
w wooooof woooooof wooooof wof woooooooof wf wof woooooooof woof wf

head. The invariable moisture of my hair, while plunged in deep thought,
woof. Wof woooooooof woooooof wf wf woof, wooof wooooof wf woof wooooof,

after six cups of hot tea in my thin shingled attic, of an August noon;
wooof wof woof wf wof wof wf wf woof woooooof wooof, wf wf Woooof woof;

this seems an additional argument for the above supposition.
woof wooof wf woooooooof woooooof wof wof wooof wooooooooof.




And how nobly it raises our conceit of the mighty, misty monster, to
Wof wof wooof wf woooof wof wooooof wf wof woooof, wooof wooooof, wf

behold him solemnly sailing through a calm tropical sea; his vast, mild
woooof wof woooooof wooooof wooooof w woof woooooof wof; wof woof, woof

head overhung by a canopy of vapour, engendered by his incommunicable
woof woooooof wf w woooof wf woooof, woooooooof wf wof woooooooooooof

contemplations, and that vapour--as you will sometimes see it--glorified
woooooooooooof, wof woof woooof--wf wof woof wooooooof wof wf--wooooooof

by a rainbow, as if Heaven itself had put its seal upon his thoughts.
wf w wooooof, wf wf Woooof woooof wof wof wof woof woof wof woooooof.

For, d'ye see, rainbows do not visit the clear air; they only irradiate
Wof, w'wf wof, woooooof wf wof wooof wof wooof wof; woof woof wooooooof

vapour. And so, through all the thick mists of the dim doubts in my
woooof. Wof wf, wooooof wof wof wooof wooof wf wof wof woooof wf wf

mind, divine intuitions now and then shoot, enkindling my fog with a
woof, woooof woooooooof wof wof woof wooof, woooooooof wf wof woof w

heavenly ray. And for this I thank God; for all have doubts; many deny;
woooooof wof. Wof wof woof W wooof Wof; wof wof woof woooof; woof woof;

but doubts or denials, few along with them, have intuitions. Doubts
wof woooof wf wooooof, wof wooof woof woof, woof woooooooof. Woooof

of all things earthly, and intuitions of some things heavenly; this
wf wof woooof wooooof, wof woooooooof wf woof woooof woooooof; woof

combination makes neither believer nor infidel, but makes a man who
wooooooooof wooof wooooof woooooof wof wooooof, wof wooof w wof wof

regards them both with equal eye.
wooooof woof woof woof wooof wof.










CHAPTER 86. The Tail.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Woof.







Other poets have warbled the praises of the soft eye of the antelope,
Wooof wooof woof wooooof wof wooooof wf wof woof wof wf wof woooooof,

and the lovely plumage of the bird that never alights; less celestial, I
wof wof woooof wooooof wf wof woof woof wooof wooooof; woof wooooooof, W

celebrate a tail.
wooooooof w woof.




Reckoning the largest sized Sperm Whale's tail to begin at that point of
Wooooooof wof wooooof wooof Wooof Wooof'w woof wf wooof wf woof wooof wf

the trunk where it tapers to about the girth of a man, it comprises
wof wooof wooof wf woooof wf wooof wof wooof wf w wof, wf wooooooof

upon its upper surface alone, an area of at least fifty square feet. The
woof wof wooof wooooof wooof, wf woof wf wf wooof wooof woooof woof. Wof

compact round body of its root expands into two broad, firm, flat palms
wooooof wooof woof wf wof woof wooooof woof wof wooof, woof, woof wooof

or flukes, gradually shoaling away to less than an inch in thickness.
wf woooof, wooooooof woooooof woof wf woof woof wf woof wf wooooooof.

At the crotch or junction, these flukes slightly overlap, then sideways
Wf wof woooof wf woooooof, wooof woooof woooooof wooooof, woof woooooof

recede from each other like wings, leaving a wide vacancy between. In
woooof woof woof wooof woof wooof, wooooof w woof wooooof wooooof. Wf

no living thing are the lines of beauty more exquisitely defined than in
wf woooof wooof wof wof wooof wf woooof woof wooooooooof wooooof woof wf

the crescentic borders of these flukes. At its utmost expansion in the
wof woooooooof wooooof wf wooof woooof. Wf wof woooof wooooooof wf wof

full grown whale, the tail will considerably exceed twenty feet across.
woof wooof wooof, wof woof woof woooooooooof woooof woooof woof woooof.




The entire member seems a dense webbed bed of welded sinews; but cut
Wof woooof woooof wooof w wooof woooof wof wf woooof woooof; wof wof

into it, and you find that three distinct strata compose it:--upper,
woof wf, wof wof woof woof wooof woooooof woooof wooooof wf:--wooof,

middle, and lower. The fibres in the upper and lower layers, are
woooof, wof wooof. Wof woooof wf wof wooof wof wooof woooof, wof

long and horizontal; those of the middle one, very short, and running
woof wof woooooooof; wooof wf wof woooof wof, woof wooof, wof wooooof

crosswise between the outside layers. This triune structure, as much as
wooooooof wooooof wof wooooof woooof. Woof woooof wooooooof, wf woof wf

anything else, imparts power to the tail. To the student of old Roman
woooooof woof, wooooof wooof wf wof woof. Wf wof wooooof wf wof Wooof

walls, the middle layer will furnish a curious parallel to the thin
wooof, wof woooof wooof woof wooooof w wooooof woooooof wf wof woof

course of tiles always alternating with the stone in those wonderful
woooof wf wooof woooof wooooooooof woof wof wooof wf wooof wooooooof

relics of the antique, and which undoubtedly contribute so much to the
woooof wf wof wooooof, wof wooof wooooooooof woooooooof wf woof wf wof

great strength of the masonry.
wooof woooooof wf wof wooooof.




But as if this vast local power in the tendinous tail were not enough,
Wof wf wf woof woof wooof wooof wf wof wooooooof woof woof wof woooof,

the whole bulk of the leviathan is knit over with a warp and woof of
wof wooof woof wf wof wooooooof wf woof woof woof w woof wof woof wf

muscular fibres and filaments, which passing on either side the loins
woooooof woooof wof wooooooof, wooof wooooof wf woooof woof wof wooof

and running down into the flukes, insensibly blend with them, and
wof wooooof woof woof wof woooof, woooooooof wooof woof woof, wof

largely contribute to their might; so that in the tail the confluent
wooooof woooooooof wf wooof wooof; wf woof wf wof woof wof wooooooof

measureless force of the whole whale seems concentrated to a point.
wooooooooof wooof wf wof wooof wooof wooof woooooooooof wf w wooof.

Could annihilation occur to matter, this were the thing to do it.
Wooof woooooooooof wooof wf woooof, woof woof wof wooof wf wf wf.




Nor does this--its amazing strength, at all tend to cripple the graceful
Wof woof woof--wof wooooof woooooof, wf wof woof wf wooooof wof woooooof

flexion of its motions; where infantileness of ease undulates through
wooooof wf wof wooooof; wooof wooooooooooof wf woof wooooooof wooooof

a Titanism of power. On the contrary, those motions derive their most
w Woooooof wf wooof. Wf wof woooooof, wooof wooooof woooof wooof woof

appalling beauty from it. Real strength never impairs beauty or harmony,
wooooooof woooof woof wf. Woof woooooof wooof wooooof woooof wf wooooof,

but it often bestows it; and in everything imposingly beautiful,
wof wf wooof wooooof wf; wof wf woooooooof woooooooof wooooooof,

strength has much to do with the magic. Take away the tied tendons that
woooooof wof woof wf wf woof wof wooof. Woof woof wof woof wooooof woof

all over seem bursting from the marble in the carved Hercules, and its
wof woof woof woooooof woof wof woooof wf wof woooof Woooooof, wof wof

charm would be gone. As devout Eckerman lifted the linen sheet from the
wooof wooof wf woof. Wf woooof Woooooof woooof wof wooof wooof woof wof

naked corpse of Goethe, he was overwhelmed with the massive chest of the
wooof woooof wf Woooof, wf wof wooooooooof woof wof wooooof wooof wf wof

man, that seemed as a Roman triumphal arch. When Angelo paints even God
wof, woof woooof wf w Wooof wooooooof woof. Woof Woooof woooof woof Wof

the Father in human form, mark what robustness is there. And whatever
wof Woooof wf wooof woof, woof woof woooooooof wf wooof. Wof woooooof

they may reveal of the divine love in the Son, the soft, curled,
woof wof woooof wf wof woooof woof wf wof Wof, wof woof, woooof,

hermaphroditical Italian pictures, in which his idea has been most
woooooooooooooof Wooooof woooooof, wf wooof wof woof wof woof woof

successfully embodied; these pictures, so destitute as they are of all
woooooooooof woooooof; wooof woooooof, wf wooooooof wf woof wof wf wof

brawniness, hint nothing of any power, but the mere negative, feminine
woooooooof, woof wooooof wf wof wooof, wof wof woof woooooof, woooooof

one of submission and endurance, which on all hands it is conceded, form
wof wf woooooooof wof wooooooof, wooof wf wof wooof wf wf woooooof, woof

the peculiar practical virtues of his teachings.
wof woooooof wooooooof wooooof wf wof wooooooof.




Such is the subtle elasticity of the organ I treat of, that whether
Woof wf wof woooof woooooooof wf wof wooof W wooof wf, woof wooooof

wielded in sport, or in earnest, or in anger, whatever be the mood it
wooooof wf wooof, wf wf wooooof, wf wf wooof, woooooof wf wof woof wf

be in, its flexions are invariably marked by exceeding grace. Therein no
wf wf, wof woooooof wof woooooooof woooof wf wooooooof wooof. Wooooof wf

fairy's arm can transcend it.
wooof'w wof wof wooooooof wf.




Five great motions are peculiar to it. First, when used as a fin for
Woof wooof wooooof wof woooooof wf wf. Wooof, woof woof wf w wof wof

progression; Second, when used as a mace in battle; Third, in sweeping;
wooooooooof; Woooof, woof woof wf w woof wf woooof; Wooof, wf woooooof;

Fourth, in lobtailing; Fifth, in peaking flukes.
Woooof, wf woooooooof; Wooof, wf wooooof woooof.




First: Being horizontal in its position, the Leviathan's tail acts in
Wooof: Wooof woooooooof wf wof woooooof, wof Wooooooof'w woof woof wf

a different manner from the tails of all other sea creatures. It never
w wooooooof woooof woof wof wooof wf wof wooof wof wooooooof. Wf wooof

wriggles. In man or fish, wriggling is a sign of inferiority. To the
woooooof. Wf wof wf woof, wooooooof wf w woof wf wooooooooof. Wf wof

whale, his tail is the sole means of propulsion. Scroll-wise coiled
wooof, wof woof wf wof woof wooof wf woooooooof. Woooof-woof woooof

forwards beneath the body, and then rapidly sprung backwards, it is this
woooooof wooooof wof woof, wof woof wooooof woooof wooooooof, wf wf woof

which gives that singular darting, leaping motion to the monster when
wooof wooof woof woooooof wooooof, wooooof woooof wf wof wooooof woof

furiously swimming. His side-fins only serve to steer by.
wooooooof woooooof. Wof woof-woof woof wooof wf wooof wf.




Second: It is a little significant, that while one sperm whale only
Woooof: Wf wf w woooof wooooooooof, woof wooof wof wooof wooof woof

fights another sperm whale with his head and jaw, nevertheless, in his
woooof wooooof wooof wooof woof wof woof wof wof, woooooooooof, wf wof

conflicts with man, he chiefly and contemptuously uses his tail. In
wooooooof woof wof, wf wooooof wof woooooooooooof woof wof woof. Wf

striking at a boat, he swiftly curves away his flukes from it, and the
woooooof wf w woof, wf wooooof woooof woof wof woooof woof wf, wof wof

blow is only inflicted by the recoil. If it be made in the unobstructed
woof wf woof wooooooof wf wof woooof. Wf wf wf woof wf wof woooooooooof

air, especially if it descend to its mark, the stroke is then simply
wof, woooooooof wf wf wooooof wf wof woof, wof woooof wf woof woooof

irresistible. No ribs of man or boat can withstand it. Your only
woooooooooof. Wf woof wf wof wf woof wof wooooooof wf. Woof woof

salvation lies in eluding it; but if it comes sideways through the
wooooooof woof wf wooooof wf; wof wf wf wooof woooooof wooooof wof

opposing water, then partly owing to the light buoyancy of the whale
woooooof wooof, woof woooof wooof wf wof wooof woooooof wf wof wooof

boat, and the elasticity of its materials, a cracked rib or a dashed
woof, wof wof woooooooof wf wof wooooooof, w wooooof wof wf w woooof

plank or two, a sort of stitch in the side, is generally the most
wooof wf wof, w woof wf woooof wf wof woof, wf wooooooof wof woof

serious result. These submerged side blows are so often received in the
wooooof woooof. Wooof wooooooof woof wooof wof wf wooof woooooof wf wof

fishery, that they are accounted mere child's play. Some one strips off
wooooof, woof woof wof wooooooof woof wooof'w woof. Woof wof woooof wof

a frock, and the hole is stopped.
w wooof, wof wof woof wf wooooof.




Third: I cannot demonstrate it, but it seems to me, that in the whale
Wooof: W woooof wooooooooof wf, wof wf wooof wf wf, woof wf wof wooof

the sense of touch is concentrated in the tail; for in this respect
wof wooof wf wooof wf woooooooooof wf wof woof; wof wf woof wooooof

there is a delicacy in it only equalled by the daintiness of the
wooof wf w woooooof wf wf woof woooooof wf wof woooooooof wf wof

elephant's trunk. This delicacy is chiefly evinced in the action of
woooooof'w wooof. Woof woooooof wf wooooof wooooof wf wof woooof wf

sweeping, when in maidenly gentleness the whale with a certain soft
woooooof, woof wf woooooof woooooooof wof wooof woof w wooooof woof

slowness moves his immense flukes from side to side upon the surface
woooooof wooof wof wooooof woooof woof woof wf woof woof wof wooooof

of the sea; and if he feel but a sailor's whisker, woe to that sailor,
wf wof wof; wof wf wf woof wof w woooof'w wooooof, wof wf woof woooof,

whiskers and all. What tenderness there is in that preliminary touch!
woooooof wof wof. Woof woooooooof wooof wf wf woof wooooooooof wooof!

Had this tail any prehensile power, I should straightway bethink me of
Wof woof woof wof woooooooof wooof, W woooof wooooooooof wooooof wf wf

Darmonodes' elephant that so frequented the flower-market, and with
Woooooooof' woooooof woof wf woooooooof wof woooof-woooof, wof woof

low salutations presented nosegays to damsels, and then caressed their
wof wooooooooof wooooooof woooooof wf wooooof, wof woof woooooof wooof

zones. On more accounts than one, a pity it is that the whale does not
wooof. Wf woof woooooof woof wof, w woof wf wf woof wof wooof woof wof

possess this prehensile virtue in his tail; for I have heard of yet
wooooof woof woooooooof woooof wf wof woof; wof W woof wooof wf wof

another elephant, that when wounded in the fight, curved round his trunk
wooooof woooooof, woof woof wooooof wf wof wooof, woooof wooof wof wooof

and extracted the dart.
wof wooooooof wof woof.




Fourth: Stealing unawares upon the whale in the fancied security of the
Woooof: Woooooof woooooof woof wof wooof wf wof wooooof woooooof wf wof

middle of solitary seas, you find him unbent from the vast corpulence
woooof wf woooooof woof, wof woof wof woooof woof wof woof woooooooof

of his dignity, and kitten-like, he plays on the ocean as if it were a
wf wof wooooof, wof woooof-woof, wf wooof wf wof wooof wf wf wf woof w

hearth. But still you see his power in his play. The broad palms of
woooof. Wof wooof wof wof wof wooof wf wof woof. Wof wooof wooof wf

his tail are flirted high into the air; then smiting the surface, the
wof woof wof wooooof woof woof wof wof; woof wooooof wof wooooof, wof

thunderous concussion resounds for miles. You would almost think a great
woooooooof woooooooof woooooof wof wooof. Wof wooof woooof wooof w wooof

gun had been discharged; and if you noticed the light wreath of vapour
wof wof woof woooooooof; wof wf wof wooooof wof wooof woooof wf woooof

from the spiracle at his other extremity, you would think that that was
woof wof woooooof wf wof wooof wooooooof, wof wooof wooof woof woof wof

the smoke from the touch-hole.
wof wooof woof wof wooof-woof.




Fifth: As in the ordinary floating posture of the leviathan the flukes
Wooof: Wf wf wof woooooof woooooof wooooof wf wof wooooooof wof woooof

lie considerably below the level of his back, they are then completely
wof woooooooooof wooof wof wooof wf wof woof, woof wof woof woooooooof

out of sight beneath the surface; but when he is about to plunge into
wof wf wooof wooooof wof wooooof; wof woof wf wf wooof wf woooof woof

the deeps, his entire flukes with at least thirty feet of his body are
wof wooof, wof woooof woooof woof wf wooof woooof woof wf wof woof wof

tossed erect in the air, and so remain vibrating a moment, till they
woooof wooof wf wof wof, wof wf woooof wooooooof w woooof, woof woof

downwards shoot out of view. Excepting the sublime BREACH--somewhere
wooooooof wooof wof wf woof. Wooooooof wof wooooof WOOOOF--wooooooof

else to be described--this peaking of the whale's flukes is perhaps the
woof wf wf wooooooof--woof wooooof wf wof wooof'w woooof wf wooooof wof

grandest sight to be seen in all animated nature. Out of the bottomless
woooooof wooof wf wf woof wf wof woooooof woooof. Wof wf wof woooooooof

profundities the gigantic tail seems spasmodically snatching at the
woooooooooof wof woooooof woof wooof wooooooooooof wooooooof wf wof

highest heaven. So in dreams, have I seen majestic Satan thrusting forth
wooooof woooof. Wf wf woooof, woof W woof woooooof Wooof wooooooof wooof

his tormented colossal claw from the flame Baltic of Hell. But in
wof wooooooof woooooof woof woof wof wooof Woooof wf Woof. Wof wf

gazing at such scenes, it is all in all what mood you are in; if in
woooof wf woof woooof, wf wf wof wf wof woof woof wof wof wf; wf wf

the Dantean, the devils will occur to you; if in that of Isaiah, the
wof Wooooof, wof woooof woof wooof wf wof; wf wf woof wf Woooof, wof

archangels. Standing at the mast-head of my ship during a sunrise that
woooooooof. Woooooof wf wof woof-woof wf wf woof woooof w wooooof woof

crimsoned sky and sea, I once saw a large herd of whales in the east,
wooooooof wof wof wof, W woof wof w wooof woof wf woooof wf wof woof,

all heading towards the sun, and for a moment vibrating in concert with
wof wooooof wooooof wof wof, wof wof w woooof wooooooof wf wooooof woof

peaked flukes. As it seemed to me at the time, such a grand embodiment
woooof woooof. Wf wf woooof wf wf wf wof woof, woof w wooof woooooooof

of adoration of the gods was never beheld, even in Persia, the home of
wf wooooooof wf wof woof wof wooof woooof, woof wf Woooof, wof woof wf

the fire worshippers. As Ptolemy Philopater testified of the African
wof woof wooooooooof. Wf Wooooof Woooooooof wooooooof wf wof Wooooof

elephant, I then testified of the whale, pronouncing him the most devout
woooooof, W woof wooooooof wf wof wooof, wooooooooof wof wof woof woooof

of all beings. For according to King Juba, the military elephants of
wf wof woooof. Wof wooooooof wf Woof Woof, wof woooooof wooooooof wf

antiquity often hailed the morning with their trunks uplifted in the
wooooooof wooof woooof wof wooooof woof wooof woooof woooooof wf wof

profoundest silence.
wooooooooof wooooof.




The chance comparison in this chapter, between the whale and the
Wof woooof woooooooof wf woof wooooof, wooooof wof wooof wof wof

elephant, so far as some aspects of the tail of the one and the trunk
woooooof, wf wof wf woof wooooof wf wof woof wf wof wof wof wof wooof

of the other are concerned, should not tend to place those two
wf wof wooof wof wooooooof, woooof wof woof wf wooof wooof wof

opposite organs on an equality, much less the creatures to which they
woooooof woooof wf wf woooooof, woof woof wof wooooooof wf wooof woof

respectively belong. For as the mightiest elephant is but a terrier
woooooooooof woooof. Wof wf wof wooooooof woooooof wf wof w wooooof

to Leviathan, so, compared with Leviathan's tail, his trunk is but the
wf Wooooooof, wf, woooooof woof Wooooooof'w woof, wof wooof wf wof wof

stalk of a lily. The most direful blow from the elephant's trunk were as
wooof wf w woof. Wof woof wooooof woof woof wof woooooof'w wooof woof wf

the playful tap of a fan, compared with the measureless crush and crash
wof wooooof wof wf w wof, woooooof woof wof wooooooooof wooof wof wooof

of the sperm whale's ponderous flukes, which in repeated instances have
wf wof wooof wooof'w wooooooof woooof, wooof wf woooooof wooooooof woof

one after the other hurled entire boats with all their oars and crews
wof wooof wof wooof woooof woooof wooof woof wof wooof woof wof wooof

into the air, very much as an Indian juggler tosses his balls.*
woof wof wof, woof woof wf wf Woooof wooooof woooof wof wooof.*







*Though all comparison in the way of general bulk between the whale
*Woooof wof woooooooof wf wof wof wf wooooof woof wooooof wof wooof

and the elephant is preposterous, inasmuch as in that particular the
wof wof woooooof wf woooooooooof, woooooof wf wf woof woooooooof wof

elephant stands in much the same respect to the whale that a dog does to
woooooof woooof wf woof wof woof wooooof wf wof wooof woof w wof woof wf

the elephant; nevertheless, there are not wanting some points of curious
wof woooooof; woooooooooof, wooof wof wof wooooof woof woooof wf wooooof

similitude; among these is the spout. It is well known that the elephant
woooooooof; wooof wooof wf wof wooof. Wf wf woof wooof woof wof woooooof

will often draw up water or dust in his trunk, and then elevating it,
woof wooof woof wf wooof wf woof wf wof wooof, wof woof wooooooof wf,

jet it forth in a stream.
wof wf wooof wf w woooof.







The more I consider this mighty tail, the more do I deplore my inability
Wof woof W woooooof woof woooof woof, wof woof wf W wooooof wf wooooooof

to express it. At times there are gestures in it, which, though they
wf wooooof wf. Wf wooof wooof wof woooooof wf wf, wooof, woooof woof

would well grace the hand of man, remain wholly inexplicable. In an
wooof woof wooof wof woof wf wof, woooof woooof woooooooooof. Wf wf

extensive herd, so remarkable, occasionally, are these mystic gestures,
wooooooof woof, wf woooooooof, woooooooooof, wof wooof woooof woooooof,

that I have heard hunters who have declared them akin to Free-Mason
woof W woof wooof wooooof wof woof woooooof woof woof wf Woof-Wooof

signs and symbols; that the whale, indeed, by these methods
wooof wof wooooof; woof wof wooof, woooof, wf wooof wooooof

intelligently conversed with the world. Nor are there wanting other
wooooooooooof wooooooof woof wof wooof. Wof wof wooof wooooof wooof

motions of the whale in his general body, full of strangeness, and
wooooof wf wof wooof wf wof wooooof woof, woof wf wooooooooof, wof

unaccountable to his most experienced assailant. Dissect him how I may,
wooooooooooof wf wof woof wooooooooof wooooooof. Wooooof wof wof W wof,

then, I but go skin deep; I know him not, and never will. But if I know
woof, W wof wf woof woof; W woof wof wof, wof wooof woof. Wof wf W woof

not even the tail of this whale, how understand his head? much more,
wof woof wof woof wf woof wooof, wof woooooooof wof woof? woof woof,

how comprehend his face, when face he has none? Thou shalt see my back
wof woooooooof wof woof, woof woof wf wof woof? Woof wooof wof wf woof

parts, my tail, he seems to say, but my face shall not be seen. But I
wooof, wf woof, wf wooof wf wof, wof wf woof wooof wof wf woof. Wof W

cannot completely make out his back parts; and hint what he will about
woooof woooooooof woof wof wof woof wooof; wof woof woof wf woof wooof

his face, I say again he has no face.
wof woof, W wof wooof wf wof wf woof.










CHAPTER 87. The Grand Armada.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Wooof Woooof.







The long and narrow peninsula of Malacca, extending south-eastward from
Wof woof wof woooof wooooooof wf Wooooof, wooooooof wooof-woooooof woof

the territories of Birmah, forms the most southerly point of all Asia.
wof wooooooooof wf Woooof, wooof wof woof wooooooof wooof wf wof Woof.

In a continuous line from that peninsula stretch the long islands of
Wf w woooooooof woof woof woof wooooooof wooooof wof woof wooooof wf

Sumatra, Java, Bally, and Timor; which, with many others, form a
Wooooof, Woof, Wooof, wof Wooof; wooof, woof woof woooof, woof w

vast mole, or rampart, lengthwise connecting Asia with Australia,
woof woof, wf wooooof, woooooooof woooooooof Woof woof Wooooooof,

and dividing the long unbroken Indian ocean from the thickly studded
wof woooooof wof woof woooooof Woooof wooof woof wof wooooof wooooof

oriental archipelagoes. This rampart is pierced by several sally-ports
woooooof wooooooooooof. Woof wooooof wf wooooof wf wooooof wooof-wooof

for the convenience of ships and whales; conspicuous among which are the
wof wof wooooooooof wf wooof wof woooof; wooooooooof wooof wooof wof wof

straits of Sunda and Malacca. By the straits of Sunda, chiefly, vessels
wooooof wf Wooof wof Wooooof. Wf wof wooooof wf Wooof, wooooof, wooooof

bound to China from the west, emerge into the China seas.
wooof wf Wooof woof wof woof, woooof woof wof Wooof woof.




Those narrow straits of Sunda divide Sumatra from Java; and standing
Wooof woooof wooooof wf Wooof woooof Wooooof woof Woof; wof woooooof

midway in that vast rampart of islands, buttressed by that bold green
woooof wf woof woof wooooof wf wooooof, woooooooof wf woof woof wooof

promontory, known to seamen as Java Head; they not a little correspond
woooooooof, wooof wf woooof wf Woof Woof; woof wof w woooof woooooooof

to the central gateway opening into some vast walled empire: and
wf wof wooooof wooooof wooooof woof woof woof woooof woooof: wof

considering the inexhaustible wealth of spices, and silks, and jewels,
wooooooooof wof wooooooooooof woooof wf woooof, wof wooof, wof woooof,

and gold, and ivory, with which the thousand islands of that oriental
wof woof, wof wooof, woof wooof wof woooooof wooooof wf woof woooooof

sea are enriched, it seems a significant provision of nature, that such
wof wof woooooof, wf wooof w wooooooooof wooooooof wf woooof, woof woof

treasures, by the very formation of the land, should at least bear the
wooooooof, wf wof woof wooooooof wf wof woof, woooof wf wooof woof wof

appearance, however ineffectual, of being guarded from the all-grasping
woooooooof, wooooof wooooooooof, wf wooof wooooof woof wof wof-woooooof

western world. The shores of the Straits of Sunda are unsupplied
wooooof wooof. Wof woooof wf wof Wooooof wf Wooof wof woooooooof

with those domineering fortresses which guard the entrances to the
woof wooof wooooooooof woooooooof wooof wooof wof wooooooof wf wof

Mediterranean, the Baltic, and the Propontis. Unlike the Danes, these
Wooooooooooof, wof Woooof, wof wof Wooooooof. Woooof wof Wooof, wooof

Orientals do not demand the obsequious homage of lowered top-sails from
Wooooooof wf wof woooof wof woooooooof woooof wf wooooof wof-wooof woof

the endless procession of ships before the wind, which for centuries
wof wooooof woooooooof wf wooof woooof wof woof, wooof wof wooooooof

past, by night and by day, have passed between the islands of Sumatra
woof, wf wooof wof wf wof, woof woooof wooooof wof wooooof wf Wooooof

and Java, freighted with the costliest cargoes of the east. But while
wof Woof, wooooooof woof wof wooooooof wooooof wf wof woof. Wof wooof

they freely waive a ceremonial like this, they do by no means renounce
woof woooof wooof w woooooooof woof woof, woof wf wf wf wooof woooooof

their claim to more solid tribute.
wooof wooof wf woof wooof wooooof.




Time out of mind the piratical proas of the Malays, lurking among
Woof wof wf woof wof wooooooof wooof wf wof Woooof, wooooof wooof

the low shaded coves and islets of Sumatra, have sallied out upon the
wof wof woooof wooof wof woooof wf Wooooof, woof wooooof wof woof wof

vessels sailing through the straits, fiercely demanding tribute at the
wooooof wooooof wooooof wof wooooof, woooooof wooooooof wooooof wf wof

point of their spears. Though by the repeated bloody chastisements they
wooof wf wooof woooof. Woooof wf wof woooooof woooof wooooooooooof woof

have received at the hands of European cruisers, the audacity of these
woof woooooof wf wof wooof wf Woooooof woooooof, wof woooooof wf wooof

corsairs has of late been somewhat repressed; yet, even at the present
woooooof wof wf woof woof woooooof wooooooof; wof, woof wf wof wooooof

day, we occasionally hear of English and American vessels, which, in
wof, wf woooooooooof woof wf Wooooof wof Woooooof wooooof, wooof, wf

those waters, have been remorselessly boarded and pillaged.
wooof woooof, woof woof wooooooooooof wooooof wof woooooof.




With a fair, fresh wind, the Pequod was now drawing nigh to these
Woof w woof, wooof woof, wof Woooof wof wof wooooof woof wf wooof

straits; Ahab purposing to pass through them into the Javan sea, and
wooooof; Woof wooooooof wf woof wooooof woof woof wof Wooof wof, wof

thence, cruising northwards, over waters known to be frequented here and
woooof, woooooof woooooooof, woof woooof wooof wf wf woooooooof woof wof

there by the Sperm Whale, sweep inshore by the Philippine Islands, and
wooof wf wof Wooof Wooof, wooof wooooof wf wof Woooooooof Wooooof, wof

gain the far coast of Japan, in time for the great whaling season there.
woof wof wof wooof wf Wooof, wf woof wof wof wooof wooooof woooof wooof.

By these means, the circumnavigating Pequod would sweep almost all the
Wf wooof wooof, wof woooooooooooooof Woooof wooof wooof woooof wof wof

known Sperm Whale cruising grounds of the world, previous to descending
wooof Wooof Wooof woooooof wooooof wf wof wooof, woooooof wf woooooooof

upon the Line in the Pacific; where Ahab, though everywhere else foiled
woof wof Woof wf wof Wooooof; wooof Woof, woooof woooooooof woof woooof

in his pursuit, firmly counted upon giving battle to Moby Dick, in the
wf wof wooooof, woooof wooooof woof woooof woooof wf Woof Woof, wf wof

sea he was most known to frequent; and at a season when he might most
wof wf wof woof wooof wf woooooof; wof wf w woooof woof wf wooof woof

reasonably be presumed to be haunting it.
woooooooof wf woooooof wf wf woooooof wf.




But how now? in this zoned quest, does Ahab touch no land? does his crew
Wof wof wof? wf woof wooof wooof, woof Woof wooof wf woof? woof wof woof

drink air? Surely, he will stop for water. Nay. For a long time, now,
wooof wof? Woooof, wf woof woof wof wooof. Wof. Wof w woof woof, wof,

the circus-running sun has raced within his fiery ring, and needs
wof woooof-wooooof wof wof wooof woooof wof wooof woof, wof wooof

no sustenance but what's in himself. So Ahab. Mark this, too, in the
wf woooooooof wof woof'w wf wooooof. Wf Woof. Woof woof, wof, wf wof

whaler. While other hulls are loaded down with alien stuff, to be
woooof. Wooof wooof wooof wof woooof woof woof wooof wooof, wf wf

transferred to foreign wharves; the world-wandering whale-ship carries
wooooooooof wf wooooof wooooof; wof wooof-wooooooof wooof-woof wooooof

no cargo but herself and crew, their weapons and their wants. She has a
wf wooof wof wooooof wof woof, wooof wooooof wof wooof wooof. Wof wof w

whole lake's contents bottled in her ample hold. She is ballasted with
wooof woof'w woooooof wooooof wf wof wooof woof. Wof wf wooooooof woof

utilities; not altogether with unusable pig-lead and kentledge. She
wooooooof; wof woooooooof woof woooooof wof-woof wof wooooooof. Wof

carries years' water in her. Clear old prime Nantucket water; which,
wooooof wooof' wooof wf wof. Wooof wof wooof Wooooooof wooof; wooof,

when three years afloat, the Nantucketer, in the Pacific, prefers to
woof wooof wooof woooof, wof Wooooooooof, wf wof Wooooof, wooooof wf

drink before the brackish fluid, but yesterday rafted off in casks, from
wooof woooof wof woooooof wooof, wof wooooooof woooof wof wf wooof, woof

the Peruvian or Indian streams. Hence it is, that, while other ships may
wof Woooooof wf Woooof wooooof. Wooof wf wf, woof, wooof wooof wooof wof

have gone to China from New York, and back again, touching at a score
woof woof wf Wooof woof Wof Woof, wof woof wooof, woooooof wf w wooof

of ports, the whale-ship, in all that interval, may not have sighted
wf wooof, wof wooof-woof, wf wof woof woooooof, wof wof woof wooooof

one grain of soil; her crew having seen no man but floating seamen like
wof wooof wf woof; wof woof woooof woof wf wof wof woooooof woooof woof

themselves. So that did you carry them the news that another flood had
woooooooof. Wf woof wof wof wooof woof wof woof woof wooooof wooof wof

come; they would only answer--"Well, boys, here's the ark!"
woof; woof wooof woof woooof--"Woof, woof, woof'w wof wof!"




Now, as many Sperm Whales had been captured off the western coast of
Wof, wf woof Wooof Woooof wof woof woooooof wof wof wooooof wooof wf

Java, in the near vicinity of the Straits of Sunda; indeed, as most of
Woof, wf wof woof woooooof wf wof Wooooof wf Wooof; woooof, wf woof wf

the ground, roundabout, was generally recognised by the fishermen as an
wof woooof, woooooooof, wof wooooooof woooooooof wf wof wooooooof wf wf

excellent spot for cruising; therefore, as the Pequod gained more
wooooooof woof wof woooooof; wooooooof, wf wof Woooof woooof woof

and more upon Java Head, the look-outs were repeatedly hailed, and
wof woof woof Woof Woof, wof woof-woof woof woooooooof woooof, wof

admonished to keep wide awake. But though the green palmy cliffs of the
woooooooof wf woof woof wooof. Wof woooof wof wooof wooof woooof wf wof

land soon loomed on the starboard bow, and with delighted nostrils
woof woof woooof wf wof wooooooof wof, wof woof wooooooof woooooof

the fresh cinnamon was snuffed in the air, yet not a single jet was
wof wooof woooooof wof wooooof wf wof wof, wof wof w woooof wof wof

descried. Almost renouncing all thought of falling in with any game
woooooof. Woooof woooooooof wof wooooof wf wooooof wf woof wof woof

hereabouts, the ship had well nigh entered the straits, when the
woooooooof, wof woof wof woof woof wooooof wof wooooof, woof wof

customary cheering cry was heard from aloft, and ere long a spectacle of
wooooooof woooooof wof wof wooof woof wooof, wof wof woof w wooooooof wf

singular magnificence saluted us.
woooooof woooooooooof wooooof wf.




But here be it premised, that owing to the unwearied activity with which
Wof woof wf wf woooooof, woof wooof wf wof wooooooof woooooof woof wooof

of late they have been hunted over all four oceans, the Sperm Whales,
wf woof woof woof woof woooof woof wof woof woooof, wof Wooof Woooof,

instead of almost invariably sailing in small detached companies, as in
wooooof wf woooof woooooooof wooooof wf wooof woooooof wooooooof, wf wf

former times, are now frequently met with in extensive herds, sometimes
woooof wooof, wof wof woooooooof wof woof wf wooooooof wooof, wooooooof

embracing so great a multitude, that it would almost seem as if
wooooooof wf wooof w wooooooof, woof wf wooof woooof woof wf wf

numerous nations of them had sworn solemn league and covenant for mutual
woooooof wooooof wf woof wof wooof woooof woooof wof woooooof wof woooof

assistance and protection. To this aggregation of the Sperm Whale into
woooooooof wof woooooooof. Wf woof wooooooooof wf wof Wooof Wooof woof

such immense caravans, may be imputed the circumstance that even in the
woof wooooof woooooof, wof wf wooooof wof woooooooooof woof woof wf wof

best cruising grounds, you may now sometimes sail for weeks and months
woof woooooof wooooof, wof wof wof wooooooof woof wof wooof wof woooof

together, without being greeted by a single spout; and then be suddenly
woooooof, wooooof wooof wooooof wf w woooof wooof; wof woof wf woooooof

saluted by what sometimes seems thousands on thousands.
wooooof wf woof wooooooof wooof wooooooof wf wooooooof.




Broad on both bows, at the distance of some two or three miles, and
Wooof wf woof woof, wf wof woooooof wf woof wof wf wooof wooof, wof

forming a great semicircle, embracing one half of the level horizon,
wooooof w wooof woooooooof, wooooooof wof woof wf wof wooof wooooof,

a continuous chain of whale-jets were up-playing and sparkling in the
w woooooooof wooof wf wooof-woof woof wf-wooooof wof wooooooof wf wof

noon-day air. Unlike the straight perpendicular twin-jets of the Right
woof-wof wof. Woooof wof woooooof wooooooooooof woof-woof wf wof Wooof

Whale, which, dividing at top, fall over in two branches, like the cleft
Wooof, wooof, woooooof wf wof, woof woof wf wof woooooof, woof wof wooof

drooping boughs of a willow, the single forward-slanting spout of the
woooooof woooof wf w woooof, wof woooof wooooof-woooooof wooof wf wof

Sperm Whale presents a thick curled bush of white mist, continually
Wooof Wooof woooooof w wooof woooof woof wf wooof woof, wooooooooof

rising and falling away to leeward.
woooof wof wooooof woof wf wooooof.




Seen from the Pequod's deck, then, as she would rise on a high hill of
Woof woof wof Woooof'w woof, woof, wf wof wooof woof wf w woof woof wf

the sea, this host of vapoury spouts, individually curling up into the
wof wof, woof woof wf wooooof woooof, woooooooooof wooooof wf woof wof

air, and beheld through a blending atmosphere of bluish haze, showed
wof, wof woooof wooooof w woooooof woooooooof wf woooof woof, woooof

like the thousand cheerful chimneys of some dense metropolis, descried
woof wof woooooof woooooof woooooof wf woof wooof woooooooof, woooooof

of a balmy autumnal morning, by some horseman on a height.
wf w wooof woooooof wooooof, wf woof woooooof wf w woooof.




As marching armies approaching an unfriendly defile in the mountains,
Wf woooooof woooof wooooooooof wf woooooooof woooof wf wof wooooooof,

accelerate their march, all eagerness to place that perilous passage in
woooooooof wooof wooof, wof wooooooof wf wooof woof woooooof wooooof wf

their rear, and once more expand in comparative security upon the plain;
wooof woof, wof woof woof woooof wf wooooooooof woooooof woof wof wooof;

even so did this vast fleet of whales now seem hurrying forward through
woof wf wof woof woof wooof wf woooof wof woof woooooof wooooof wooooof

the straits; gradually contracting the wings of their semicircle, and
wof wooooof; wooooooof wooooooooof wof wooof wf wooof woooooooof, wof

swimming on, in one solid, but still crescentic centre.
woooooof wf, wf wof wooof, wof wooof woooooooof woooof.




Crowding all sail the Pequod pressed after them; the harpooneers
Woooooof wof woof wof Woooof wooooof wooof woof; wof wooooooooof

handling their weapons, and loudly cheering from the heads of their
woooooof wooof wooooof, wof woooof woooooof woof wof wooof wf wooof

yet suspended boats. If the wind only held, little doubt had they, that
wof wooooooof wooof. Wf wof woof woof woof, woooof wooof wof woof, woof

chased through these Straits of Sunda, the vast host would only deploy
woooof wooooof wooof Wooooof wf Wooof, wof woof woof wooof woof woooof

into the Oriental seas to witness the capture of not a few of their
woof wof Woooooof woof wf wooooof wof wooooof wf wof w wof wf wooof

number. And who could tell whether, in that congregated caravan, Moby
woooof. Wof wof wooof woof wooooof, wf woof wooooooooof wooooof, Woof

Dick himself might not temporarily be swimming, like the worshipped
Woof wooooof wooof wof wooooooooof wf woooooof, woof wof woooooooof

white-elephant in the coronation procession of the Siamese! So with
wooof-woooooof wf wof woooooooof woooooooof wf wof Wooooof! Wf woof

stun-sail piled on stun-sail, we sailed along, driving these leviathans
woof-woof wooof wf woof-woof, wf woooof wooof, wooooof wooof woooooooof

before us; when, of a sudden, the voice of Tashtego was heard, loudly
woooof wf; woof, wf w woooof, wof wooof wf Woooooof wof wooof, woooof

directing attention to something in our wake.
wooooooof wooooooof wf wooooooof wf wof woof.




Corresponding to the crescent in our van, we beheld another in our rear.
Wooooooooooof wf wof woooooof wf wof wof, wf woooof wooooof wf wof woof.

It seemed formed of detached white vapours, rising and falling something
Wf woooof woooof wf woooooof wooof wooooof, woooof wof wooooof wooooooof

like the spouts of the whales; only they did not so completely come and
woof wof woooof wf wof woooof; woof woof wof wof wf woooooooof woof wof

go; for they constantly hovered, without finally disappearing. Levelling
wf; wof woof woooooooof wooooof, wooooof wooooof woooooooooof. Wooooooof

his glass at this sight, Ahab quickly revolved in his pivot-hole,
wof wooof wf woof wooof, Woof wooooof woooooof wf wof wooof-woof,

crying, "Aloft there, and rig whips and buckets to wet the
woooof, "Wooof wooof, wof wof wooof wof wooooof wf wof wof

sails;--Malays, sir, and after us!"
wooof;--Woooof, wof, wof wooof wf!"




As if too long lurking behind the headlands, till the Pequod should
Wf wf wof woof wooooof woooof wof wooooooof, woof wof Woooof woooof

fairly have entered the straits, these rascally Asiatics were now in hot
woooof woof wooooof wof wooooof, wooof woooooof Woooooof woof wof wf wof

pursuit, to make up for their over-cautious delay. But when the swift
wooooof, wf woof wf wof wooof woof-woooooof wooof. Wof woof wof wooof

Pequod, with a fresh leading wind, was herself in hot chase; how very
Woooof, woof w wooof wooooof woof, wof wooooof wf wof wooof; wof woof

kind of these tawny philanthropists to assist in speeding her on to
woof wf wooof wooof wooooooooooooof wf woooof wf woooooof wof wf wf

her own chosen pursuit,--mere riding-whips and rowels to her, that they
wof wof woooof wooooof,--woof woooof-wooof wof woooof wf wof, woof woof

were. As with glass under arm, Ahab to-and-fro paced the deck; in his
woof. Wf woof wooof wooof wof, Woof wf-wof-wof wooof wof woof; wf wof

forward turn beholding the monsters he chased, and in the after one the
wooooof woof wooooooof wof woooooof wf woooof, wof wf wof wooof wof wof

bloodthirsty pirates chasing him; some such fancy as the above seemed
woooooooooof wooooof wooooof wof; woof woof wooof wf wof wooof woooof

his. And when he glanced upon the green walls of the watery defile in
wof. Wof woof wf wooooof woof wof wooof wooof wf wof woooof woooof wf

which the ship was then sailing, and bethought him that through that
wooof wof woof wof woof wooooof, wof wooooooof wof woof wooooof woof

gate lay the route to his vengeance, and beheld, how that through that
woof wof wof wooof wf wof wooooooof, wof woooof, wof woof wooooof woof

same gate he was now both chasing and being chased to his deadly end;
woof woof wf wof wof woof wooooof wof wooof woooof wf wof woooof wof;

and not only that, but a herd of remorseless wild pirates and
wof wof woof woof, wof w woof wf wooooooooof woof wooooof wof

inhuman atheistical devils were infernally cheering him on with their
wooooof wooooooooof woooof woof woooooooof woooooof wof wf woof wooof

curses;--when all these conceits had passed through his brain, Ahab's
woooof;--woof wof wooof woooooof wof woooof wooooof wof wooof, Woof'w

brow was left gaunt and ribbed, like the black sand beach after some
woof wof woof wooof wof woooof, woof wof wooof woof wooof wooof woof

stormy tide has been gnawing it, without being able to drag the firm
woooof woof wof woof wooooof wf, wooooof wooof woof wf woof wof woof

thing from its place.
wooof woof wof wooof.




But thoughts like these troubled very few of the reckless crew; and
Wof woooooof woof wooof woooooof woof wof wf wof woooooof woof; wof

when, after steadily dropping and dropping the pirates astern, the
woof, wooof woooooof woooooof wof woooooof wof wooooof woooof, wof

Pequod at last shot by the vivid green Cockatoo Point on the Sumatra
Woooof wf woof woof wf wof wooof wooof Woooooof Wooof wf wof Wooooof

side, emerging at last upon the broad waters beyond; then, the
woof, woooooof wf woof woof wof wooof woooof woooof; woof, wof

harpooneers seemed more to grieve that the swift whales had been gaining
wooooooooof woooof woof wf woooof woof wof wooof woooof wof woof wooooof

upon the ship, than to rejoice that the ship had so victoriously gained
woof wof woof, woof wf wooooof woof wof woof wof wf woooooooooof woooof

upon the Malays. But still driving on in the wake of the whales, at
woof wof Woooof. Wof wooof wooooof wf wf wof woof wf wof woooof, wf

length they seemed abating their speed; gradually the ship neared them;
woooof woof woooof wooooof wooof wooof; wooooooof wof woof woooof woof;

and the wind now dying away, word was passed to spring to the boats. But
wof wof woof wof wooof woof, woof wof woooof wf woooof wf wof wooof. Wof

no sooner did the herd, by some presumed wonderful instinct of the Sperm
wf woooof wof wof woof, wf woof woooooof wooooooof woooooof wf wof Wooof

Whale, become notified of the three keels that were after them,--though
Wooof, woooof woooooof wf wof wooof wooof woof woof wooof woof,--woooof

as yet a mile in their rear,--than they rallied again, and forming
wf wof w woof wf wooof woof,--woof woof wooooof wooof, wof wooooof

in close ranks and battalions, so that their spouts all looked like
wf wooof wooof wof woooooooof, wf woof wooof woooof wof woooof woof

flashing lines of stacked bayonets, moved on with redoubled velocity.
woooooof wooof wf wooooof woooooof, wooof wf woof wooooooof woooooof.




Stripped to our shirts and drawers, we sprang to the white-ash, and
Woooooof wf wof woooof wof wooooof, wf woooof wf wof wooof-wof, wof

after several hours' pulling were almost disposed to renounce the chase,
wooof wooooof wooof' wooooof woof woooof woooooof wf woooooof wof wooof,

when a general pausing commotion among the whales gave animating
woof w wooooof wooooof wooooooof wooof wof woooof woof wooooooof

token that they were now at last under the influence of that strange
wooof woof woof woof wof wf woof wooof wof wooooooof wf woof wooooof

perplexity of inert irresolution, which, when the fishermen perceive
woooooooof wf wooof woooooooooof, wooof, woof wof wooooooof woooooof

it in the whale, they say he is gallied. The compact martial columns
wf wf wof wooof, woof wof wf wf wooooof. Wof wooooof wooooof wooooof

in which they had been hitherto rapidly and steadily swimming, were now
wf wooof woof wof woof woooooof wooooof wof woooooof woooooof, woof wof

broken up in one measureless rout; and like King Porus' elephants in the
woooof wf wf wof wooooooooof woof; wof woof Woof Wooof' wooooooof wf wof

Indian battle with Alexander, they seemed going mad with consternation.
Woooof woooof woof Wooooooof, woof woooof wooof wof woof wooooooooooof.

In all directions expanding in vast irregular circles, and aimlessly
Wf wof woooooooof wooooooof wf woof wooooooof wooooof, wof wooooooof

swimming hither and thither, by their short thick spoutings, they
woooooof woooof wof wooooof, wf wooof wooof wooof wooooooof, woof

plainly betrayed their distraction of panic. This was still more
wooooof woooooof wooof wooooooooof wf wooof. Woof wof wooof woof

strangely evinced by those of their number, who, completely paralysed
wooooooof wooooof wf wooof wf wooof woooof, wof, woooooooof wooooooof

as it were, helplessly floated like water-logged dismantled ships on the
wf wf woof, woooooooof wooooof woof wooof-woooof woooooooof wooof wf wof

sea. Had these Leviathans been but a flock of simple sheep, pursued over
wof. Wof wooof Woooooooof woof wof w wooof wf woooof wooof, wooooof woof

the pasture by three fierce wolves, they could not possibly have evinced
wof wooooof wf wooof woooof woooof, woof wooof wof woooooof woof wooooof

such excessive dismay. But this occasional timidity is characteristic
woof wooooooof woooof. Wof woof woooooooof woooooof wf woooooooooooof

of almost all herding creatures. Though banding together in tens of
wf woooof wof wooooof wooooooof. Woooof wooooof woooooof wf woof wf

thousands, the lion-maned buffaloes of the West have fled before a
wooooooof, wof woof-wooof wooooooof wf wof Woof woof woof woooof w

solitary horseman. Witness, too, all human beings, how when herded
woooooof woooooof. Wooooof, wof, wof wooof woooof, wof woof woooof

together in the sheepfold of a theatre's pit, they will, at the
woooooof wf wof wooooooof wf w wooooof'w wof, woof woof, wf wof

slightest alarm of fire, rush helter-skelter for the outlets, crowding,
wooooooof wooof wf woof, woof woooof-wooooof wof wof wooooof, woooooof,

trampling, jamming, and remorselessly dashing each other to death. Best,
wooooooof, wooooof, wof wooooooooooof wooooof woof wooof wf wooof. Woof,

therefore, withhold any amazement at the strangely gallied whales
wooooooof, woooooof wof wooooooof wf wof wooooooof wooooof woooof

before us, for there is no folly of the beasts of the earth which is not
woooof wf, wof wooof wf wf wooof wf wof woooof wf wof wooof wooof wf wof

infinitely outdone by the madness of men.
woooooooof wooooof wf wof wooooof wf wof.




Though many of the whales, as has been said, were in violent motion,
Woooof woof wf wof woooof, wf wof woof woof, woof wf wooooof woooof,

yet it is to be observed that as a whole the herd neither advanced nor
wof wf wf wf wf woooooof woof wf w wooof wof woof wooooof woooooof wof

retreated, but collectively remained in one place. As is customary in
wooooooof, wof woooooooooof woooooof wf wof wooof. Wf wf wooooooof wf

those cases, the boats at once separated, each making for some one
wooof wooof, wof wooof wf woof wooooooof, woof woooof wof woof wof

lone whale on the outskirts of the shoal. In about three minutes' time,
woof wooof wf wof wooooooof wf wof wooof. Wf wooof wooof wooooof' woof,

Queequeg's harpoon was flung; the stricken fish darted blinding spray
Woooooof'w wooooof wof wooof; wof woooooof woof woooof woooooof wooof

in our faces, and then running away with us like light, steered straight
wf wof wooof, wof woof wooooof woof woof wf woof wooof, wooooof woooooof

for the heart of the herd. Though such a movement on the part of the
wof wof wooof wf wof woof. Woooof woof w woooooof wf wof woof wf wof

whale struck under such circumstances, is in no wise unprecedented; and
wooof woooof wooof woof wooooooooooof, wf wf wf woof wooooooooooof; wof

indeed is almost always more or less anticipated; yet does it present
woooof wf woooof woooof woof wf woof wooooooooof; wof woof wf wooooof

one of the more perilous vicissitudes of the fishery. For as the swift
wof wf wof woof woooooof woooooooooof wf wof wooooof. Wof wf wof wooof

monster drags you deeper and deeper into the frantic shoal, you bid
wooooof wooof wof woooof wof woooof woof wof wooooof wooof, wof wof

adieu to circumspect life and only exist in a delirious throb.
wooof wf wooooooooof woof wof woof wooof wf w wooooooof wooof.




As, blind and deaf, the whale plunged forward, as if by sheer power of
Wf, wooof wof woof, wof wooof wooooof wooooof, wf wf wf wooof wooof wf

speed to rid himself of the iron leech that had fastened to him; as we
wooof wf wof wooooof wf wof woof wooof woof wof woooooof wf wof; wf wf

thus tore a white gash in the sea, on all sides menaced as we flew, by
woof woof w wooof woof wf wof wof, wf wof wooof wooooof wf wf woof, wf

the crazed creatures to and fro rushing about us; our beset boat was
wof woooof wooooooof wf wof wof wooooof wooof wf; wof wooof woof wof

like a ship mobbed by ice-isles in a tempest, and striving to steer
woof w woof woooof wf wof-wooof wf w wooooof, wof woooooof wf wooof

through their complicated channels and straits, knowing not at what
wooooof wooof wooooooooof woooooof wof wooooof, wooooof wof wf woof

moment it may be locked in and crushed.
woooof wf wof wf woooof wf wof wooooof.




But not a bit daunted, Queequeg steered us manfully; now sheering off
Wof wof w wof wooooof, Woooooof wooooof wf woooooof; wof woooooof wof

from this monster directly across our route in advance; now edging away
woof woof wooooof woooooof woooof wof wooof wf wooooof; wof woooof woof

from that, whose colossal flukes were suspended overhead, while all the
woof woof, wooof woooooof woooof woof wooooooof woooooof, wooof wof wof

time, Starbuck stood up in the bows, lance in hand, pricking out of our
woof, Woooooof wooof wf wf wof woof, wooof wf woof, woooooof wof wf wof

way whatever whales he could reach by short darts, for there was no time
wof woooooof woooof wf wooof wooof wf wooof wooof, wof wooof wof wf woof

to make long ones. Nor were the oarsmen quite idle, though their wonted
wf woof woof woof. Wof woof wof wooooof wooof woof, woooof wooof woooof

duty was now altogether dispensed with. They chiefly attended to the
woof wof wof woooooooof wooooooof woof. Woof wooooof woooooof wf wof

shouting part of the business. "Out of the way, Commodore!" cried one,
woooooof woof wf wof woooooof. "Wof wf wof wof, Wooooooof!" wooof wof,

to a great dromedary that of a sudden rose bodily to the surface,
wf w wooof wooooooof woof wf w woooof woof woooof wf wof wooooof,

and for an instant threatened to swamp us. "Hard down with your tail,
wof wof wf wooooof woooooooof wf wooof wf. "Woof woof woof woof woof,

there!" cried a second to another, which, close to our gunwale, seemed
wooof!" wooof w woooof wf wooooof, wooof, wooof wf wof wooooof, woooof

calmly cooling himself with his own fan-like extremity.
woooof wooooof wooooof woof wof wof wof-woof wooooooof.




All whaleboats carry certain curious contrivances, originally invented
Wof woooooooof wooof wooooof wooooof woooooooooof, woooooooof woooooof

by the Nantucket Indians, called druggs. Two thick squares of wood
wf wof Wooooooof Wooooof, woooof woooof. Wof wooof wooooof wf woof

of equal size are stoutly clenched together, so that they cross each
wf wooof woof wof wooooof woooooof woooooof, wf woof woof wooof woof

other's grain at right angles; a line of considerable length is then
wooof'w wooof wf wooof woooof; w woof wf woooooooooof woooof wf woof

attached to the middle of this block, and the other end of the line
woooooof wf wof woooof wf woof wooof, wof wof wooof wof wf wof woof

being looped, it can in a moment be fastened to a harpoon. It is chiefly
wooof woooof, wf wof wf w woooof wf woooooof wf w wooooof. Wf wf wooooof

among gallied whales that this drugg is used. For then, more whales
wooof wooooof woooof woof woof wooof wf woof. Wof woof, woof woooof

are close round you than you can possibly chase at one time. But sperm
wof wooof wooof wof woof wof wof woooooof wooof wf wof woof. Wof wooof

whales are not every day encountered; while you may, then, you must
woooof wof wof wooof wof wooooooooof; wooof wof wof, woof, wof woof

kill all you can. And if you cannot kill them all at once, you must wing
woof wof wof wof. Wof wf wof woooof woof woof wof wf woof, wof woof woof

them, so that they can be afterwards killed at your leisure. Hence it
woof, wf woof woof wof wf woooooooof woooof wf woof wooooof. Wooof wf

is, that at times like these the drugg, comes into requisition. Our boat
wf, woof wf wooof woof wooof wof wooof, wooof woof wooooooooof. Wof woof

was furnished with three of them. The first and second were successfully
wof wooooooof woof wooof wf woof. Wof wooof wof woooof woof woooooooooof

darted, and we saw the whales staggeringly running off, fettered by the
woooof, wof wf wof wof woooof woooooooooof wooooof wof, woooooof wf wof

enormous sidelong resistance of the towing drugg. They were cramped like
woooooof woooooof woooooooof wf wof woooof wooof. Woof woof wooooof woof

malefactors with the chain and ball. But upon flinging the third, in the
wooooooooof woof wof wooof wof woof. Wof woof woooooof wof wooof, wf wof

act of tossing overboard the clumsy wooden block, it caught under one
wof wf wooooof wooooooof wof woooof woooof wooof, wf woooof wooof wof

of the seats of the boat, and in an instant tore it out and carried it
wf wof wooof wf wof woof, wof wf wf wooooof woof wf wof wof wooooof wf

away, dropping the oarsman in the boat's bottom as the seat slid from
woof, woooooof wof wooooof wf wof woof'w woooof wf wof woof woof woof

under him. On both sides the sea came in at the wounded planks, but we
wooof wof. Wf woof wooof wof wof woof wf wf wof wooooof woooof, wof wf

stuffed two or three drawers and shirts in, and so stopped the leaks for
wooooof wof wf wooof wooooof wof woooof wf, wof wf wooooof wof wooof wof

the time.
wof woof.




It had been next to impossible to dart these drugged-harpoons, were
Wf wof woof woof wf woooooooof wf woof wooof wooooof-woooooof, woof

it not that as we advanced into the herd, our whale's way greatly
wf wof woof wf wf woooooof woof wof woof, wof wooof'w wof wooooof

diminished; moreover, that as we went still further and further from the
woooooooof; woooooof, woof wf wf woof wooof wooooof wof wooooof woof wof

circumference of commotion, the direful disorders seemed waning. So that
wooooooooooof wf wooooooof, wof wooooof wooooooof woooof woooof. Wf woof

when at last the jerking harpoon drew out, and the towing whale sideways
woof wf woof wof wooooof wooooof woof wof, wof wof woooof wooof woooooof

vanished; then, with the tapering force of his parting momentum, we
woooooof; woof, woof wof woooooof wooof wf wof wooooof woooooof, wf

glided between two whales into the innermost heart of the shoal, as if
woooof wooooof wof woooof woof wof wooooooof wooof wf wof wooof, wf wf

from some mountain torrent we had slid into a serene valley lake. Here
woof woof woooooof wooooof wf wof woof woof w woooof woooof woof. Woof

the storms in the roaring glens between the outermost whales, were heard
wof woooof wf wof wooooof wooof wooooof wof wooooooof woooof, woof wooof

but not felt. In this central expanse the sea presented that smooth
wof wof woof. Wf woof wooooof wooooof wof wof wooooooof woof woooof

satin-like surface, called a sleek, produced by the subtle moisture
wooof-woof wooooof, woooof w wooof, woooooof wf wof woooof woooooof

thrown off by the whale in his more quiet moods. Yes, we were now
woooof wof wf wof wooof wf wof woof wooof wooof. Wof, wf woof wof

in that enchanted calm which they say lurks at the heart of every
wf woof wooooooof woof wooof woof wof wooof wf wof wooof wf wooof

commotion. And still in the distracted distance we beheld the tumults of
wooooooof. Wof wooof wf wof woooooooof woooooof wf woooof wof wooooof wf

the outer concentric circles, and saw successive pods of whales, eight
wof wooof woooooooof wooooof, wof wof woooooooof woof wf woooof, wooof

or ten in each, swiftly going round and round, like multiplied spans of
wf wof wf woof, wooooof wooof wooof wof wooof, woof woooooooof wooof wf

horses in a ring; and so closely shoulder to shoulder, that a Titanic
woooof wf w woof; wof wf wooooof woooooof wf woooooof, woof w Wooooof

circus-rider might easily have over-arched the middle ones, and so have
woooof-wooof wooof woooof woof woof-woooof wof woooof woof, wof wf woof

gone round on their backs. Owing to the density of the crowd of reposing
woof wooof wf wooof wooof. Wooof wf wof wooooof wf wof wooof wf woooooof

whales, more immediately surrounding the embayed axis of the herd, no
woooof, woof wooooooooof wooooooooof wof wooooof woof wf wof woof, wf

possible chance of escape was at present afforded us. We must watch for
woooooof woooof wf woooof wof wf wooooof woooooof wf. Wf woof wooof wof

a breach in the living wall that hemmed us in; the wall that had only
w woooof wf wof woooof woof woof woooof wf wf; wof woof woof wof woof

admitted us in order to shut us up. Keeping at the centre of the lake,
woooooof wf wf wooof wf woof wf wf. Wooooof wf wof woooof wf wof woof,

we were occasionally visited by small tame cows and calves; the women
wf woof woooooooooof wooooof wf wooof woof woof wof woooof; wof wooof

and children of this routed host.
wof woooooof wf woof woooof woof.




Now, inclusive of the occasional wide intervals between the revolving
Wof, wooooooof wf wof woooooooof woof wooooooof wooooof wof wooooooof

outer circles, and inclusive of the spaces between the various pods in
wooof wooooof, wof wooooooof wf wof woooof wooooof wof wooooof woof wf

any one of those circles, the entire area at this juncture, embraced by
wof wof wf wooof wooooof, wof woooof woof wf woof woooooof, woooooof wf

the whole multitude, must have contained at least two or three square
wof wooof wooooooof, woof woof wooooooof wf wooof wof wf wooof woooof

miles. At any rate--though indeed such a test at such a time might be
wooof. Wf wof woof--woooof woooof woof w woof wf woof w woof wooof wf

deceptive--spoutings might be discovered from our low boat that
wooooooof--wooooooof wooof wf woooooooof woof wof wof woof woof

seemed playing up almost from the rim of the horizon. I mention this
woooof wooooof wf woooof woof wof wof wf wof wooooof. W wooooof woof

circumstance, because, as if the cows and calves had been purposely
woooooooooof, wooooof, wf wf wof woof wof woooof wof woof wooooooof

locked up in this innermost fold; and as if the wide extent of the
woooof wf wf woof wooooooof woof; wof wf wf wof woof woooof wf wof

herd had hitherto prevented them from learning the precise cause of its
woof wof woooooof wooooooof woof woof woooooof wof wooooof wooof wf wof

stopping; or, possibly, being so young, unsophisticated, and every way
woooooof; wf, woooooof, wooof wf wooof, wooooooooooooof, wof wooof wof

innocent and inexperienced; however it may have been, these smaller
woooooof wof wooooooooooof; wooooof wf wof woof woof, wooof wooooof

whales--now and then visiting our becalmed boat from the margin of the
woooof--wof wof woof woooooof wof woooooof woof woof wof woooof wf wof

lake--evinced a wondrous fearlessness and confidence, or else a still
woof--wooooof w woooooof woooooooooof wof woooooooof, wf woof w wooof

becharmed panic which it was impossible not to marvel at. Like household
wooooooof wooof wooof wf wof woooooooof wof wf woooof wf. Woof wooooooof

dogs they came snuffling round us, right up to our gunwales, and
woof woof woof wooooooof wooof wf, wooof wf wf wof woooooof, wof

touching them; till it almost seemed that some spell had suddenly
woooooof woof; woof wf woooof woooof woof woof wooof wof woooooof

domesticated them. Queequeg patted their foreheads; Starbuck scratched
woooooooooof woof. Woooooof woooof wooof wooooooof; Woooooof wooooooof

their backs with his lance; but fearful of the consequences, for the
wooof wooof woof wof wooof; wof wooooof wf wof woooooooooof, wof wof

time refrained from darting it.
woof wooooooof woof wooooof wf.




But far beneath this wondrous world upon the surface, another and still
Wof wof wooooof woof woooooof wooof woof wof wooooof, wooooof wof wooof

stranger world met our eyes as we gazed over the side. For, suspended
woooooof wooof wof wof woof wf wf wooof woof wof woof. Wof, wooooooof

in those watery vaults, floated the forms of the nursing mothers of the
wf wooof woooof woooof, wooooof wof wooof wf wof wooooof wooooof wf wof

whales, and those that by their enormous girth seemed shortly to
woooof, wof wooof woof wf wooof woooooof wooof woooof wooooof wf

become mothers. The lake, as I have hinted, was to a considerable depth
woooof wooooof. Wof woof, wf W woof woooof, wof wf w woooooooooof wooof

exceedingly transparent; and as human infants while suckling will calmly
wooooooooof wooooooooof; wof wf wooof wooooof wooof woooooof woof woooof

and fixedly gaze away from the breast, as if leading two different
wof wooooof woof woof woof wof woooof, wf wf wooooof wof wooooooof

lives at the time; and while yet drawing mortal nourishment, be still
wooof wf wof woof; wof wooof wof wooooof woooof wooooooooof, wf wooof

spiritually feasting upon some unearthly reminiscence;--even so did the
wooooooooof woooooof woof woof wooooooof woooooooooof;--woof wf wof wof

young of these whales seem looking up towards us, but not at us, as if
wooof wf wooof woooof woof wooooof wf wooooof wf, wof wof wf wf, wf wf

we were but a bit of Gulfweed in their new-born sight. Floating on their
wf woof wof w wof wf Woooooof wf wooof wof-woof wooof. Woooooof wf wooof

sides, the mothers also seemed quietly eyeing us. One of these little
wooof, wof wooooof woof woooof wooooof woooof wf. Wof wf wooof woooof

infants, that from certain queer tokens seemed hardly a day old, might
wooooof, woof woof wooooof wooof woooof woooof woooof w wof wof, wooof

have measured some fourteen feet in length, and some six feet in
woof woooooof woof woooooof woof wf woooof, wof woof wof woof wf

girth. He was a little frisky; though as yet his body seemed scarce yet
wooof. Wf wof w woooof woooof; woooof wf wof wof woof woooof woooof wof

recovered from that irksome position it had so lately occupied in the
wooooooof woof woof wooooof woooooof wf wof wf woooof woooooof wf wof

maternal reticule; where, tail to head, and all ready for the final
woooooof woooooof; wooof, woof wf woof, wof wof wooof wof wof wooof

spring, the unborn whale lies bent like a Tartar's bow. The delicate
woooof, wof woooof wooof woof woof woof w Woooof'w wof. Wof woooooof

side-fins, and the palms of his flukes, still freshly retained the
woof-woof, wof wof wooof wf wof woooof, wooof wooooof woooooof wof

plaited crumpled appearance of a baby's ears newly arrived from foreign
wooooof woooooof woooooooof wf w woof'w woof wooof wooooof woof wooooof

parts.
wooof.




"Line! line!" cried Queequeg, looking over the gunwale; "him fast! him
"Woof! woof!" wooof Woooooof, wooooof woof wof wooooof; "wof woof! wof

fast!--Who line him! Who struck?--Two whale; one big, one little!"
woof!--Wof woof wof! Wof woooof?--Wof wooof; wof wof, wof woooof!"




"What ails ye, man?" cried Starbuck.
"Woof woof wf, wof?" wooof Woooooof.




"Look-e here," said Queequeg, pointing down.
"Woof-w woof," woof Woooooof, woooooof woof.




As when the stricken whale, that from the tub has reeled out hundreds of
Wf woof wof woooooof wooof, woof woof wof wof wof woooof wof woooooof wf

fathoms of rope; as, after deep sounding, he floats up again, and shows
wooooof wf woof; wf, wooof woof woooooof, wf woooof wf wooof, wof wooof

the slackened curling line buoyantly rising and spiralling towards the
wof wooooooof wooooof woof wooooooof woooof wof woooooooof wooooof wof

air; so now, Starbuck saw long coils of the umbilical cord of Madame
wof; wf wof, Woooooof wof woof wooof wf wof wooooooof woof wf Woooof

Leviathan, by which the young cub seemed still tethered to its dam. Not
Wooooooof, wf wooof wof wooof wof woooof wooof woooooof wf wof wof. Wof

seldom in the rapid vicissitudes of the chase, this natural line, with
woooof wf wof wooof woooooooooof wf wof wooof, woof wooooof woof, woof

the maternal end loose, becomes entangled with the hempen one, so that
wof woooooof wof wooof, wooooof wooooooof woof wof woooof wof, wf woof

the cub is thereby trapped. Some of the subtlest secrets of the seas
wof wof wf wooooof wooooof. Woof wf wof woooooof wooooof wf wof woof

seemed divulged to us in this enchanted pond. We saw young Leviathan
woooof woooooof wf wf wf woof wooooooof woof. Wf wof wooof Wooooooof

amours in the deep.*
woooof wf wof woof.*







*The sperm whale, as with all other species of the Leviathan, but unlike
*Wof wooof wooof, wf woof wof wooof wooooof wf wof Wooooooof, wof woooof

most other fish, breeds indifferently at all seasons; after a gestation
woof wooof woof, woooof wooooooooooof wf wof wooooof; wooof w wooooooof

which may probably be set down at nine months, producing but one at a
wooof wof woooooof wf wof woof wf woof woooof, wooooooof wof wof wf w

time; though in some few known instances giving birth to an Esau and
woof; woooof wf woof wof wooof wooooooof woooof wooof wf wf Woof wof

Jacob:--a contingency provided for in suckling by two teats, curiously
Wooof:--w wooooooooof woooooof wof wf woooooof wf wof wooof, wooooooof

situated, one on each side of the anus; but the breasts themselves
woooooof, wof wf woof woof wf wof woof; wof wof wooooof woooooooof

extend upwards from that. When by chance these precious parts in a
woooof wooooof woof woof. Woof wf woooof wooof woooooof wooof wf w

nursing whale are cut by the hunter's lance, the mother's pouring milk
wooooof wooof wof wof wf wof woooof'w wooof, wof woooof'w wooooof woof

and blood rivallingly discolour the sea for rods. The milk is very sweet
wof wooof wooooooooof wooooooof wof wof wof woof. Wof woof wf woof wooof

and rich; it has been tasted by man; it might do well with strawberries.
wof woof; wf wof woof woooof wf wof; wf wooof wf woof woof woooooooooof.

When overflowing with mutual esteem, the whales salute MORE HOMINUM.
Woof wooooooooof woof woooof woooof, wof woooof woooof WOOF WOOOOOF.







And thus, though surrounded by circle upon circle of consternations
Wof woof, woooof woooooooof wf woooof woof woooof wf woooooooooooof

and affrights, did these inscrutable creatures at the centre freely and
wof wooooooof, wof wooof wooooooooof wooooooof wf wof woooof woooof wof

fearlessly indulge in all peaceful concernments; yea, serenely revelled
woooooooof wooooof wf wof woooooof woooooooooof; wof, woooooof woooooof

in dalliance and delight. But even so, amid the tornadoed Atlantic of
wf wooooooof wof wooooof. Wof woof wf, woof wof wooooooof Woooooof wf

my being, do I myself still for ever centrally disport in mute calm; and
wf wooof, wf W woooof wooof wof woof wooooooof wooooof wf woof woof; wof

while ponderous planets of unwaning woe revolve round me, deep down and
wooof wooooooof wooooof wf woooooof wof wooooof wooof wf, woof woof wof

deep inland there I still bathe me in eternal mildness of joy.
woof woooof wooof W wooof wooof wf wf wooooof woooooof wf wof.




Meanwhile, as we thus lay entranced, the occasional sudden frantic
Wooooooof, wf wf woof wof wooooooof, wof woooooooof woooof wooooof

spectacles in the distance evinced the activity of the other boats,
woooooooof wf wof woooooof wooooof wof woooooof wf wof wooof wooof,

still engaged in drugging the whales on the frontier of the host; or
wooof wooooof wf woooooof wof woooof wf wof woooooof wf wof woof; wf

possibly carrying on the war within the first circle, where abundance of
woooooof woooooof wf wof wof woooof wof wooof woooof, wooof wooooooof wf

room and some convenient retreats were afforded them. But the sight
woof wof woof woooooooof woooooof woof woooooof woof. Wof wof wooof

of the enraged drugged whales now and then blindly darting to and fro
wf wof wooooof wooooof woooof wof wof woof wooooof wooooof wf wof wof

across the circles, was nothing to what at last met our eyes. It is
woooof wof wooooof, wof wooooof wf woof wf woof wof wof woof. Wf wf

sometimes the custom when fast to a whale more than commonly powerful
wooooooof wof woooof woof woof wf w wooof woof woof woooooof woooooof

and alert, to seek to hamstring him, as it were, by sundering or
wof wooof, wf woof wf wooooooof wof, wf wf woof, wf wooooooof wf

maiming his gigantic tail-tendon. It is done by darting a short-handled
wooooof wof woooooof woof-woooof. Wf wf woof wf wooooof w wooof-wooooof

cutting-spade, to which is attached a rope for hauling it back again.
wooooof-wooof, wf wooof wf woooooof w woof wof wooooof wf woof wooof.

A whale wounded (as we afterwards learned) in this part, but not
W wooof wooooof (wf wf woooooooof wooooof) wf woof woof, wof wof

effectually, as it seemed, had broken away from the boat, carrying along
wooooooooof, wf wf woooof, wof woooof woof woof wof woof, woooooof wooof

with him half of the harpoon line; and in the extraordinary agony of
woof wof woof wf wof wooooof woof; wof wf wof wooooooooooof wooof wf

the wound, he was now dashing among the revolving circles like the lone
wof wooof, wf wof wof wooooof wooof wof wooooooof wooooof woof wof woof

mounted desperado Arnold, at the battle of Saratoga, carrying dismay
wooooof wooooooof Woooof, wf wof woooof wf Woooooof, woooooof woooof

wherever he went.
woooooof wf woof.




But agonizing as was the wound of this whale, and an appalling spectacle
Wof wooooooof wf wof wof wooof wf woof wooof, wof wf wooooooof wooooooof

enough, any way; yet the peculiar horror with which he seemed to
woooof, wof wof; wof wof woooooof woooof woof wooof wf woooof wf

inspire the rest of the herd, was owing to a cause which at first the
wooooof wof woof wf wof woof, wof wooof wf w wooof wooof wf wooof wof

intervening distance obscured from us. But at length we perceived that
wooooooooof woooooof woooooof woof wf. Wof wf woooof wf wooooooof woof

by one of the unimaginable accidents of the fishery, this whale had
wf wof wf wof woooooooooof wooooooof wf wof wooooof, woof wooof wof

become entangled in the harpoon-line that he towed; he had also run
woooof wooooooof wf wof wooooof-woof woof wf wooof; wf wof woof wof

away with the cutting-spade in him; and while the free end of the rope
woof woof wof wooooof-wooof wf wof; wof wooof wof woof wof wf wof woof

attached to that weapon, had permanently caught in the coils of the
woooooof wf woof woooof, wof wooooooooof woooof wf wof wooof wf wof

harpoon-line round his tail, the cutting-spade itself had worked loose
wooooof-woof wooof wof woof, wof wooooof-wooof woooof wof woooof wooof

from his flesh. So that tormented to madness, he was now churning
woof wof wooof. Wf woof wooooooof wf wooooof, wf wof wof woooooof

through the water, violently flailing with his flexible tail, and
wooooof wof wooof, wooooooof woooooof woof wof woooooof woof, wof

tossing the keen spade about him, wounding and murdering his own
wooooof wof woof wooof wooof wof, woooooof wof wooooooof wof wof

comrades.
woooooof.




This terrific object seemed to recall the whole herd from their
Woof woooooof woooof woooof wf woooof wof wooof woof woof wooof

stationary fright. First, the whales forming the margin of our lake
woooooooof woooof. Wooof, wof woooof wooooof wof woooof wf wof woof

began to crowd a little, and tumble against each other, as if lifted
wooof wf wooof w woooof, wof woooof wooooof woof wooof, wf wf woooof

by half spent billows from afar; then the lake itself began faintly to
wf woof wooof wooooof woof woof; woof wof woof woooof wooof wooooof wf

heave and swell; the submarine bridal-chambers and nurseries vanished;
wooof wof wooof; wof wooooooof woooof-woooooof wof wooooooof woooooof;

in more and more contracting orbits the whales in the more central
wf woof wof woof wooooooooof woooof wof woooof wf wof woof wooooof

circles began to swim in thickening clusters. Yes, the long calm was
wooooof wooof wf woof wf woooooooof woooooof. Wof, wof woof woof wof

departing. A low advancing hum was soon heard; and then like to the
wooooooof. W wof wooooooof wof wof woof wooof; wof woof woof wf wof

tumultuous masses of block-ice when the great river Hudson breaks up in
woooooooof woooof wf wooof-wof woof wof wooof wooof Woooof woooof wf wf

Spring, the entire host of whales came tumbling upon their inner centre,
Woooof, wof woooof woof wf woooof woof woooooof woof wooof wooof woooof,

as if to pile themselves up in one common mountain. Instantly Starbuck
wf wf wf woof woooooooof wf wf wof woooof woooooof. Wooooooof Woooooof

and Queequeg changed places; Starbuck taking the stern.
wof Woooooof wooooof woooof; Woooooof woooof wof wooof.




"Oars! Oars!" he intensely whispered, seizing the helm--"gripe your
"Woof! Woof!" wf wooooooof wooooooof, wooooof wof woof--"wooof woof

oars, and clutch your souls, now! My God, men, stand by! Shove him off,
woof, wof woooof woof wooof, wof! Wf Wof, wof, wooof wf! Wooof wof wof,

you Queequeg--the whale there!--prick him!--hit him! Stand up--stand
wof Woooooof--wof wooof wooof!--wooof wof!--wof wof! Wooof wf--wooof

up, and stay so! Spring, men--pull, men; never mind their backs--scrape
wf, wof woof wf! Woooof, wof--woof, wof; wooof woof wooof wooof--woooof

them!--scrape away!"
woof!--woooof woof!"




The boat was now all but jammed between two vast black bulks, leaving a
Wof woof wof wof wof wof woooof wooooof wof woof wooof wooof, wooooof w

narrow Dardanelles between their long lengths. But by desperate endeavor
woooof Wooooooooof wooooof wooof woof wooooof. Wof wf wooooooof woooooof

we at last shot into a temporary opening; then giving way rapidly,
wf wf woof woof woof w wooooooof wooooof; woof woooof wof wooooof,

and at the same time earnestly watching for another outlet. After many
wof wf wof woof woof wooooooof woooooof wof wooooof woooof. Wooof woof

similar hair-breadth escapes, we at last swiftly glided into what had
wooooof woof-wooooof wooooof, wf wf woof wooooof woooof woof woof wof

just been one of the outer circles, but now crossed by random whales,
woof woof wof wf wof wooof wooooof, wof wof wooooof wf woooof woooof,

all violently making for one centre. This lucky salvation was cheaply
wof wooooooof woooof wof wof woooof. Woof wooof wooooooof wof wooooof

purchased by the loss of Queequeg's hat, who, while standing in the bows
wooooooof wf wof woof wf Woooooof'w wof, wof, wooof woooooof wf wof woof

to prick the fugitive whales, had his hat taken clean from his head by
wf wooof wof woooooof woooof, wof wof wof wooof wooof woof wof woof wf

the air-eddy made by the sudden tossing of a pair of broad flukes close
wof wof-woof woof wf wof woooof wooooof wf w woof wf wooof woooof wooof

by.
wf.




Riotous and disordered as the universal commotion now was, it soon
Wooooof wof woooooooof wf wof wooooooof wooooooof wof wof, wf woof

resolved itself into what seemed a systematic movement; for having
woooooof woooof woof woof woooof w woooooooof woooooof; wof woooof

clumped together at last in one dense body, they then renewed their
wooooof woooooof wf woof wf wof wooof woof, woof woof wooooof wooof

onward flight with augmented fleetness. Further pursuit was useless; but
woooof woooof woof wooooooof wooooooof. Wooooof wooooof wof wooooof; wof

the boats still lingered in their wake to pick up what drugged whales
wof wooof wooof woooooof wf wooof woof wf woof wf woof wooooof woooof

might be dropped astern, and likewise to secure one which Flask had
wooof wf wooooof woooof, wof woooooof wf woooof wof wooof Wooof wof

killed and waifed. The waif is a pennoned pole, two or three of which
woooof wof woooof. Wof woof wf w woooooof woof, wof wf wooof wf wooof

are carried by every boat; and which, when additional game is at hand,
wof wooooof wf wooof woof; wof wooof, woof woooooooof woof wf wf woof,

are inserted upright into the floating body of a dead whale, both to
wof woooooof wooooof woof wof woooooof woof wf w woof wooof, woof wf

mark its place on the sea, and also as token of prior possession, should
woof wof wooof wf wof wof, wof woof wf wooof wf wooof woooooooof, woooof

the boats of any other ship draw near.
wof wooof wf wof wooof woof woof woof.




The result of this lowering was somewhat illustrative of that sagacious
Wof woooof wf woof woooooof wof woooooof woooooooooof wf woof wooooooof

saying in the Fishery,--the more whales the less fish. Of all the
woooof wf wof Wooooof,--wof woof woooof wof woof woof. Wf wof wof

drugged whales only one was captured. The rest contrived to escape for
wooooof woooof woof wof wof woooooof. Wof woof wooooooof wf woooof wof

the time, but only to be taken, as will hereafter be seen, by some other
wof woof, wof woof wf wf wooof, wf woof wooooooof wf woof, wf woof wooof

craft than the Pequod.
wooof woof wof Woooof.










CHAPTER 88. Schools and Schoolmasters.
WOOOOOF wf. Wooooof wof Wooooooooooof.







The previous chapter gave account of an immense body or herd of Sperm
Wof woooooof wooooof woof wooooof wf wf wooooof woof wf woof wf Wooof

Whales, and there was also then given the probable cause inducing those
Woooof, wof wooof wof woof woof wooof wof woooooof wooof woooooof wooof

vast aggregations.
woof woooooooooof.




Now, though such great bodies are at times encountered, yet, as must
Wof, woooof woof wooof woooof wof wf wooof wooooooooof, wof, wf woof

have been seen, even at the present day, small detached bands are
woof woof woof, woof wf wof wooooof wof, wooof woooooof wooof wof

occasionally observed, embracing from twenty to fifty individuals each.
woooooooooof woooooof, wooooooof woof woooof wf wooof wooooooooof woof.

Such bands are known as schools. They generally are of two sorts; those
Woof wooof wof wooof wf wooooof. Woof wooooooof wof wf wof wooof; wooof

composed almost entirely of females, and those mustering none but young
woooooof woooof woooooof wf wooooof, wof wooof wooooooof woof wof wooof

vigorous males, or bulls, as they are familiarly designated.
woooooof wooof, wf wooof, wf woof wof woooooooof woooooooof.




In cavalier attendance upon the school of females, you invariably see a
Wf woooooof woooooooof woof wof woooof wf wooooof, wof woooooooof wof w

male of full grown magnitude, but not old; who, upon any alarm, evinces
woof wf woof wooof wooooooof, wof wof wof; wof, woof wof wooof, wooooof

his gallantry by falling in the rear and covering the flight of his
wof wooooooof wf wooooof wf wof woof wof woooooof wof woooof wf wof

ladies. In truth, this gentleman is a luxurious Ottoman, swimming about
woooof. Wf wooof, woof wooooooof wf w wooooooof Wooooof, woooooof wooof

over the watery world, surroundingly accompanied by all the solaces
woof wof woooof wooof, wooooooooooof wooooooooof wf wof wof wooooof

and endearments of the harem. The contrast between this Ottoman and
wof wooooooooof wf wof wooof. Wof woooooof wooooof woof Wooooof wof

his concubines is striking; because, while he is always of the largest
wof woooooooof wf woooooof; wooooof, wooof wf wf woooof wf wof wooooof

leviathanic proportions, the ladies, even at full growth, are not
wooooooooof wooooooooof, wof woooof, woof wf woof woooof, wof wof

more than one-third of the bulk of an average-sized male. They are
woof woof wof-wooof wf wof woof wf wf wooooof-wooof woof. Woof wof

comparatively delicate, indeed; I dare say, not to exceed half a dozen
wooooooooooof woooooof, woooof; W woof wof, wof wf woooof woof w wooof

yards round the waist. Nevertheless, it cannot be denied, that upon the
wooof wooof wof wooof. Woooooooooof, wf woooof wf woooof, woof woof wof

whole they are hereditarily entitled to EMBONPOINT.
wooof woof wof woooooooooof woooooof wf WOOOOOOOOF.




It is very curious to watch this harem and its lord in their indolent
Wf wf woof wooooof wf wooof woof wooof wof wof woof wf wooof woooooof

ramblings. Like fashionables, they are for ever on the move in leisurely
wooooooof. Woof woooooooooof, woof wof wof woof wf wof woof wf wooooooof

search of variety. You meet them on the Line in time for the full flower
woooof wf wooooof. Wof woof woof wf wof Woof wf woof wof wof woof woooof

of the Equatorial feeding season, having just returned, perhaps, from
wf wof Woooooooof wooooof woooof, woooof woof woooooof, wooooof, woof

spending the summer in the Northern seas, and so cheating summer of all
woooooof wof woooof wf wof Woooooof woof, wof wf woooooof woooof wf wof

unpleasant weariness and warmth. By the time they have lounged up and
woooooooof wooooooof wof woooof. Wf wof woof woof woof wooooof wf wof

down the promenade of the Equator awhile, they start for the Oriental
woof wof wooooooof wf wof Wooooof woooof, woof wooof wof wof Woooooof

waters in anticipation of the cool season there, and so evade the other
woooof wf woooooooooof wf wof woof woooof wooof, wof wf wooof wof wooof

excessive temperature of the year.
wooooooof wooooooooof wf wof woof.




When serenely advancing on one of these journeys, if any strange
Woof woooooof wooooooof wf wof wf wooof woooooof, wf wof wooooof

suspicious sights are seen, my lord whale keeps a wary eye on his
woooooooof woooof wof woof, wf woof wooof wooof w woof wof wf wof

interesting family. Should any unwarrantably pert young Leviathan coming
wooooooooof woooof. Woooof wof wooooooooooof woof wooof Wooooooof woooof

that way, presume to draw confidentially close to one of the ladies,
woof wof, wooooof wf woof woooooooooooof wooof wf wof wf wof woooof,

with what prodigious fury the Bashaw assails him, and chases him away!
woof woof woooooooof woof wof Woooof wooooof wof, wof woooof wof woof!

High times, indeed, if unprincipled young rakes like him are to be
Woof wooof, woooof, wf woooooooooof wooof wooof woof wof wof wf wf

permitted to invade the sanctity of domestic bliss; though do what the
wooooooof wf woooof wof woooooof wf woooooof wooof; woooof wf woof wof

Bashaw will, he cannot keep the most notorious Lothario out of his bed;
Woooof woof, wf woooof woof wof woof wooooooof Woooooof wof wf wof wof;

for, alas! all fish bed in common. As ashore, the ladies often cause the
wof, woof! wof woof wof wf woooof. Wf woooof, wof woooof wooof wooof wof

most terrible duels among their rival admirers; just so with the whales,
woof woooooof wooof wooof wooof wooof woooooof; woof wf woof wof woooof,

who sometimes come to deadly battle, and all for love. They fence with
wof wooooooof woof wf woooof woooof, wof wof wof woof. Woof wooof woof

their long lower jaws, sometimes locking them together, and so striving
wooof woof wooof woof, wooooooof wooooof woof woooooof, wof wf woooooof

for the supremacy like elks that warringly interweave their antlers. Not
wof wof wooooooof woof woof woof wooooooof woooooooof wooof wooooof. Wof

a few are captured having the deep scars of these encounters,--furrowed
w wof wof woooooof woooof wof woof wooof wf wooof woooooooof,--woooooof

heads, broken teeth, scolloped fins; and in some instances, wrenched and
wooof, woooof wooof, wooooooof woof; wof wf woof wooooooof, woooooof wof

dislocated mouths.
woooooooof woooof.




But supposing the invader of domestic bliss to betake himself away at
Wof wooooooof wof wooooof wf woooooof wooof wf woooof wooooof woof wf

the first rush of the harem's lord, then is it very diverting to watch
wof wooof woof wf wof wooof'w woof, woof wf wf woof wooooooof wf wooof

that lord. Gently he insinuates his vast bulk among them again and
woof woof. Woooof wf woooooooof wof woof woof wooof woof wooof wof

revels there awhile, still in tantalizing vicinity to young Lothario,
woooof wooof woooof, wooof wf wooooooooof woooooof wf wooof Woooooof,

like pious Solomon devoutly worshipping among his thousand concubines.
woof wooof Wooooof woooooof wooooooooof wooof wof woooooof woooooooof.

Granting other whales to be in sight, the fishermen will seldom give
Woooooof wooof woooof wf wf wf wooof, wof wooooooof woof woooof woof

chase to one of these Grand Turks; for these Grand Turks are too lavish
wooof wf wof wf wooof Wooof Wooof; wof wooof Wooof Wooof wof wof woooof

of their strength, and hence their unctuousness is small. As for the
wf wooof woooooof, wof wooof wooof woooooooooof wf wooof. Wf wof wof

sons and the daughters they beget, why, those sons and daughters must
woof wof wof wooooooof woof wooof, wof, wooof woof wof wooooooof woof

take care of themselves; at least, with only the maternal help. For
woof woof wf woooooooof; wf wooof, woof woof wof woooooof woof. Wof

like certain other omnivorous roving lovers that might be named, my Lord
woof wooooof wooof woooooooof woooof woooof woof wooof wf wooof, wf Woof

Whale has no taste for the nursery, however much for the bower; and so,
Wooof wof wf wooof wof wof wooooof, wooooof woof wof wof wooof; wof wf,

being a great traveller, he leaves his anonymous babies all over the
wooof w wooof wooooooof, wf woooof wof wooooooof woooof wof woof wof

world; every baby an exotic. In good time, nevertheless, as the ardour
wooof; wooof woof wf woooof. Wf woof woof, woooooooooof, wf wof woooof

of youth declines; as years and dumps increase; as reflection lends
wf wooof woooooof; wf wooof wof wooof woooooof; wf woooooooof wooof

her solemn pauses; in short, as a general lassitude overtakes the sated
wof woooof woooof; wf wooof, wf w wooooof wooooooof wooooooof wof wooof

Turk; then a love of ease and virtue supplants the love for maidens; our
Woof; woof w woof wf woof wof woooof wooooooof wof woof wof wooooof; wof

Ottoman enters upon the impotent, repentant, admonitory stage of life,
Wooooof woooof woof wof woooooof, wooooooof, woooooooof wooof wf woof,

forswears, disbands the harem, and grown to an exemplary, sulky old
wooooooof, woooooof wof wooof, wof wooof wf wf wooooooof, wooof wof

soul, goes about all alone among the meridians and parallels saying his
woof, woof wooof wof wooof wooof wof wooooooof wof wooooooof woooof wof

prayers, and warning each young Leviathan from his amorous errors.
wooooof, wof wooooof woof wooof Wooooooof woof wof wooooof woooof.




Now, as the harem of whales is called by the fishermen a school, so
Wof, wf wof wooof wf woooof wf woooof wf wof wooooooof w woooof, wf

is the lord and master of that school technically known as the
wf wof woof wof woooof wf woof woooof wooooooooof wooof wf wof

schoolmaster. It is therefore not in strict character, however admirably
woooooooooof. Wf wf wooooooof wof wf woooof wooooooof, wooooof wooooooof

satirical, that after going to school himself, he should then go abroad
wooooooof, woof wooof wooof wf woooof wooooof, wf woooof woof wf woooof

inculcating not what he learned there, but the folly of it. His title,
wooooooooof wof woof wf wooooof wooof, wof wof wooof wf wf. Wof wooof,

schoolmaster, would very naturally seem derived from the name bestowed
woooooooooof, wooof woof wooooooof woof wooooof woof wof woof woooooof

upon the harem itself, but some have surmised that the man who first
woof wof wooof woooof, wof woof woof woooooof woof wof wof wof wooof

thus entitled this sort of Ottoman whale, must have read the memoirs of
woof woooooof woof woof wf Wooooof wooof, woof woof woof wof wooooof wf

Vidocq, and informed himself what sort of a country-schoolmaster that
Woooof, wof woooooof wooooof woof woof wf w wooooof-woooooooooof woof

famous Frenchman was in his younger days, and what was the nature of
woooof Wooooooof wof wf wof wooooof woof, wof woof wof wof woooof wf

those occult lessons he inculcated into some of his pupils.
wooof woooof wooooof wf woooooooof woof woof wf wof woooof.




The same secludedness and isolation to which the schoolmaster whale
Wof woof woooooooooof wof wooooooof wf wooof wof woooooooooof wooof

betakes himself in his advancing years, is true of all aged Sperm
wooooof wooooof wf wof wooooooof wooof, wf woof wf wof woof Wooof

Whales. Almost universally, a lone whale--as a solitary Leviathan is
Woooof. Woooof wooooooooof, w woof wooof--wf w woooooof Wooooooof wf

called--proves an ancient one. Like venerable moss-bearded Daniel Boone,
woooof--woooof wf wooooof wof. Woof wooooooof woof-wooooof Woooof Wooof,

he will have no one near him but Nature herself; and her he takes to
wf woof woof wf wof woof wof wof Woooof wooooof; wof wof wf wooof wf

wife in the wilderness of waters, and the best of wives she is, though
woof wf wof woooooooof wf woooof, wof wof woof wf wooof wof wf, woooof

she keeps so many moody secrets.
wof wooof wf woof wooof wooooof.




The schools composing none but young and vigorous males, previously
Wof wooooof wooooooof woof wof wooof wof woooooof wooof, woooooooof

mentioned, offer a strong contrast to the harem schools. For while
wooooooof, wooof w woooof woooooof wf wof wooof wooooof. Wof wooof

those female whales are characteristically timid, the young males, or
wooof woooof woooof wof woooooooooooooooof wooof, wof wooof wooof, wf

forty-barrel-bulls, as they call them, are by far the most pugnacious
wooof-woooof-wooof, wf woof woof woof, wof wf wof wof woof woooooooof

of all Leviathans, and proverbially the most dangerous to encounter;
wf wof Woooooooof, wof woooooooooof wof woof wooooooof wf wooooooof;

excepting those wondrous grey-headed, grizzled whales, sometimes met,
wooooooof wooof woooooof woof-woooof, woooooof woooof, wooooooof wof,

and these will fight you like grim fiends exasperated by a penal gout.
wof wooof woof wooof wof woof woof woooof wooooooooof wf w wooof woof.




The Forty-barrel-bull schools are larger than the harem schools. Like
Wof Wooof-woooof-woof wooooof wof woooof woof wof wooof wooooof. Woof

a mob of young collegians, they are full of fight, fun, and wickedness,
w wof wf wooof woooooooof, woof wof woof wf wooof, wof, wof woooooooof,

tumbling round the world at such a reckless, rollicking rate, that no
woooooof wooof wof wooof wf woof w woooooof, woooooooof woof, woof wf

prudent underwriter would insure them any more than he would a riotous
wooooof wooooooooof wooof woooof woof wof woof woof wf wooof w wooooof

lad at Yale or Harvard. They soon relinquish this turbulence though,
wof wf Woof wf Wooooof. Woof woof woooooooof woof woooooooof woooof,

and when about three-fourths grown, break up, and separately go about in
wof woof wooof wooof-wooooof wooof, wooof wf, wof woooooooof wf wooof wf

quest of settlements, that is, harems.
wooof wf wooooooooof, woof wf, woooof.




Another point of difference between the male and female schools is
Wooooof wooof wf woooooooof wooooof wof woof wof woooof wooooof wf

still more characteristic of the sexes. Say you strike a
wooof woof woooooooooooof wf wof wooof. Wof wof woooof w

Forty-barrel-bull--poor devil! all his comrades quit him. But strike
Wooof-woooof-woof--woof wooof! wof wof woooooof woof wof. Wof woooof

a member of the harem school, and her companions swim around her with
w woooof wf wof wooof woooof, wof wof woooooooof woof woooof wof woof

every token of concern, sometimes lingering so near her and so long, as
wooof wooof wf wooooof, wooooooof wooooooof wf woof wof wof wf woof, wf

themselves to fall a prey.
woooooooof wf woof w woof.










CHAPTER 89. Fast-Fish and Loose-Fish.
WOOOOOF wf. Woof-Woof wof Wooof-Woof.







The allusion to the waif and waif-poles in the last chapter but one,
Wof woooooof wf wof woof wof woof-wooof wf wof woof wooooof wof wof,

necessitates some account of the laws and regulations of the whale
woooooooooof woof wooooof wf wof woof wof wooooooooof wf wof wooof

fishery, of which the waif may be deemed the grand symbol and badge.
wooooof, wf wooof wof woof wof wf woooof wof wooof woooof wof wooof.




It frequently happens that when several ships are cruising in company,
Wf woooooooof wooooof woof woof wooooof wooof wof woooooof wf wooooof,

a whale may be struck by one vessel, then escape, and be finally killed
w wooof wof wf woooof wf wof woooof, woof woooof, wof wf wooooof woooof

and captured by another vessel; and herein are indirectly comprised
wof woooooof wf wooooof woooof; wof woooof wof woooooooof wooooooof

many minor contingencies, all partaking of this one grand feature. For
woof wooof wooooooooooof, wof wooooooof wf woof wof wooof wooooof. Wof

example,--after a weary and perilous chase and capture of a whale,
wooooof,--wooof w wooof wof woooooof wooof wof wooooof wf w wooof,

the body may get loose from the ship by reason of a violent storm; and
wof woof wof wof wooof woof wof woof wf woooof wf w wooooof wooof; wof

drifting far away to leeward, be retaken by a second whaler, who, in a
woooooof wof woof wf wooooof, wf wooooof wf w woooof woooof, wof, wf w

calm, snugly tows it alongside, without risk of life or line. Thus
woof, woooof woof wf wooooooof, wooooof woof wf woof wf woof. Woof

the most vexatious and violent disputes would often arise between
wof woof wooooooof wof wooooof woooooof wooof wooof wooof wooooof

the fishermen, were there not some written or unwritten, universal,
wof wooooooof, woof wooof wof woof wooooof wf wooooooof, wooooooof,

undisputed law applicable to all cases.
woooooooof wof woooooooof wf wof wooof.




Perhaps the only formal whaling code authorized by legislative
Wooooof wof woof woooof wooooof woof woooooooof wf wooooooooof

enactment, was that of Holland. It was decreed by the States-General in
wooooooof, wof woof wf Wooooof. Wf wof wooooof wf wof Woooof-Wooooof wf

A.D. 1695. But though no other nation has ever had any written whaling
W.W. woof. Wof woooof wf wooof woooof wof woof wof wof wooooof wooooof

law, yet the American fishermen have been their own legislators and
wof, wof wof Woooooof wooooooof woof woof wooof wof wooooooooof wof

lawyers in this matter. They have provided a system which for terse
wooooof wf woof woooof. Woof woof woooooof w woooof wooof wof wooof

comprehensiveness surpasses Justinian's Pandects and the By-laws of
wooooooooooooooof wooooooof Wooooooof'w Woooooof wof wof Wf-woof wf

the Chinese Society for the Suppression of Meddling with other People's
wof Wooooof Wooooof wof wof Wooooooooof wf Woooooof woof wooof Woooof'w

Business. Yes; these laws might be engraven on a Queen Anne's farthing,
Woooooof. Wof; wooof woof wooof wf woooooof wf w Wooof Woof'w woooooof,

or the barb of a harpoon, and worn round the neck, so small are they.
wf wof woof wf w wooooof, wof woof wooof wof woof, wf wooof wof woof.




I. A Fast-Fish belongs to the party fast to it.
W. W Woof-Woof wooooof wf wof wooof woof wf wf.




II. A Loose-Fish is fair game for anybody who can soonest catch it.
WF. W Wooof-Woof wf woof woof wof wooooof wof wof wooooof wooof wf.




But what plays the mischief with this masterly code is the admirable
Wof woof wooof wof woooooof woof woof woooooof woof wf wof wooooooof

brevity of it, which necessitates a vast volume of commentaries to
wooooof wf wf, wooof woooooooooof w woof woooof wf woooooooooof wf

expound it.
wooooof wf.




First: What is a Fast-Fish? Alive or dead a fish is technically fast,
Wooof: Woof wf w Woof-Woof? Wooof wf woof w woof wf wooooooooof woof,

when it is connected with an occupied ship or boat, by any medium at all
woof wf wf wooooooof woof wf woooooof woof wf woof, wf wof woooof wf wof

controllable by the occupant or occupants,--a mast, an oar, a nine-inch
woooooooooof wf wof woooooof wf wooooooof,--w woof, wf wof, w woof-woof

cable, a telegraph wire, or a strand of cobweb, it is all the same.
wooof, w wooooooof woof, wf w woooof wf woooof, wf wf wof wof woof.

Likewise a fish is technically fast when it bears a waif, or any other
Woooooof w woof wf wooooooooof woof woof wf wooof w woof, wf wof wooof

recognised symbol of possession; so long as the party waifing it plainly
woooooooof woooof wf woooooooof; wf woof wf wof wooof wooooof wf wooooof

evince their ability at any time to take it alongside, as well as their
woooof wooof wooooof wf wof woof wf woof wf wooooooof, wf woof wf wooof

intention so to do.
wooooooof wf wf wf.




These are scientific commentaries; but the commentaries of the whalemen
Wooof wof woooooooof woooooooooof; wof wof woooooooooof wf wof woooooof

themselves sometimes consist in hard words and harder knocks--the
woooooooof wooooooof wooooof wf woof wooof wof woooof woooof--wof

Coke-upon-Littleton of the fist. True, among the more upright and
Woof-woof-Wooooooof wf wof woof. Woof, wooof wof woof wooooof wof

honourable whalemen allowances are always made for peculiar cases,
woooooooof woooooof woooooooof wof woooof woof wof woooooof wooof,

where it would be an outrageous moral injustice for one party to claim
wooof wf wooof wf wf woooooooof wooof wooooooof wof wof wooof wf wooof

possession of a whale previously chased or killed by another party. But
woooooooof wf w wooof woooooooof woooof wf woooof wf wooooof wooof. Wof

others are by no means so scrupulous.
woooof wof wf wf wooof wf woooooooof.




Some fifty years ago there was a curious case of whale-trover litigated
Woof wooof wooof wof wooof wof w wooooof woof wf wooof-woooof wooooooof

in England, wherein the plaintiffs set forth that after a hard chase of
wf Wooooof, wooooof wof woooooooof wof wooof woof wooof w woof wooof wf

a whale in the Northern seas; and when indeed they (the plaintiffs) had
w wooof wf wof Woooooof woof; wof woof woooof woof (wof woooooooof) wof

succeeded in harpooning the fish; they were at last, through peril of
wooooooof wf woooooooof wof woof; woof woof wf woof, wooooof wooof wf

their lives, obliged to forsake not only their lines, but their boat
wooof wooof, wooooof wf wooooof wof woof wooof wooof, wof wooof woof

itself. Ultimately the defendants (the crew of another ship) came up
woooof. Woooooooof wof woooooooof (wof woof wf wooooof woof) woof wf

with the whale, struck, killed, seized, and finally appropriated it
woof wof wooof, woooof, woooof, woooof, wof wooooof woooooooooof wf

before the very eyes of the plaintiffs. And when those defendants were
woooof wof woof woof wf wof woooooooof. Wof woof wooof woooooooof woof

remonstrated with, their captain snapped his fingers in the plaintiffs'
woooooooooof woof, wooof wooooof wooooof wof wooooof wf wof woooooooof'

teeth, and assured them that by way of doxology to the deed he had done,
wooof, wof wooooof woof woof wf wof wf woooooof wf wof woof wf wof woof,

he would now retain their line, harpoons, and boat, which had remained
wf wooof wof woooof wooof woof, woooooof, wof woof, wooof wof woooooof

attached to the whale at the time of the seizure. Wherefore the
woooooof wf wof wooof wf wof woof wf wof wooooof. Wooooooof wof

plaintiffs now sued for the recovery of the value of their whale, line,
woooooooof wof woof wof wof woooooof wf wof wooof wf wooof wooof, woof,

harpoons, and boat.
woooooof, wof woof.




Mr. Erskine was counsel for the defendants; Lord Ellenborough was
Wf. Wooooof wof wooooof wof wof woooooooof; Woof Woooooooooof wof

the judge. In the course of the defence, the witty Erskine went on
wof wooof. Wf wof woooof wf wof wooooof, wof wooof Wooooof woof wf

to illustrate his position, by alluding to a recent crim. con.
wf woooooooof wof woooooof, wf woooooof wf w woooof woof. wof.

case, wherein a gentleman, after in vain trying to bridle his wife's
woof, wooooof w wooooooof, wooof wf woof woooof wf woooof wof woof'w

viciousness, had at last abandoned her upon the seas of life; but in
wooooooooof, wof wf woof wooooooof wof woof wof woof wf woof; wof wf

the course of years, repenting of that step, he instituted an action to
wof woooof wf wooof, wooooooof wf woof woof, wf woooooooof wf woooof wf

recover possession of her. Erskine was on the other side; and he
wooooof woooooooof wf wof. Wooooof wof wf wof wooof woof; wof wf

then supported it by saying, that though the gentleman had originally
woof wooooooof wf wf woooof, woof woooof wof wooooooof wof woooooooof

harpooned the lady, and had once had her fast, and only by reason of the
wooooooof wof woof, wof wof woof wof wof woof, wof woof wf woooof wf wof

great stress of her plunging viciousness, had at last abandoned her; yet
wooof woooof wf wof woooooof wooooooooof, wof wf woof wooooooof wof; wof

abandon her he did, so that she became a loose-fish; and therefore
wooooof wof wf wof, wf woof wof woooof w wooof-woof; wof wooooooof

when a subsequent gentleman re-harpooned her, the lady then became that
woof w woooooooof wooooooof wf-wooooooof wof, wof woof woof woooof woof

subsequent gentleman's property, along with whatever harpoon might have
woooooooof wooooooof'w woooooof, wooof woof woooooof wooooof wooof woof

been found sticking in her.
woof wooof woooooof wf wof.




Now in the present case Erskine contended that the examples of the whale
Wof wf wof wooooof woof Wooooof wooooooof woof wof woooooof wf wof wooof

and the lady were reciprocally illustrative of each other.
wof wof woof woof woooooooooof woooooooooof wf woof wooof.




These pleadings, and the counter pleadings, being duly heard, the very
Wooof wooooooof, wof wof wooooof wooooooof, wooof woof wooof, wof woof

learned Judge in set terms decided, to wit,--That as for the boat, he
wooooof Wooof wf wof wooof wooooof, wf wof,--Woof wf wof wof woof, wf

awarded it to the plaintiffs, because they had merely abandoned it
wooooof wf wf wof woooooooof, wooooof woof wof woooof wooooooof wf

to save their lives; but that with regard to the controverted whale,
wf woof wooof wooof; wof woof woof woooof wf wof woooooooooof wooof,

harpoons, and line, they belonged to the defendants; the whale, because
woooooof, wof woof, woof woooooof wf wof woooooooof; wof wooof, wooooof

it was a Loose-Fish at the time of the final capture; and the harpoons
wf wof w Wooof-Woof wf wof woof wf wof wooof wooooof; wof wof woooooof

and line because when the fish made off with them, it (the fish)
wof woof wooooof woof wof woof woof wof woof woof, wf (wof woof)

acquired a property in those articles; and hence anybody who afterwards
woooooof w woooooof wf wooof woooooof; wof wooof wooooof wof woooooooof

took the fish had a right to them. Now the defendants afterwards took
woof wof woof wof w wooof wf woof. Wof wof woooooooof woooooooof woof

the fish; ergo, the aforesaid articles were theirs.
wof woof; woof, wof wooooooof woooooof woof woooof.




A common man looking at this decision of the very learned Judge, might
W woooof wof wooooof wf woof woooooof wf wof woof wooooof Wooof, wooof

possibly object to it. But ploughed up to the primary rock of the
woooooof woooof wf wf. Wof woooooof wf wf wof wooooof woof wf wof

matter, the two great principles laid down in the twin whaling laws
woooof, wof wof wooof woooooooof woof woof wf wof woof wooooof woof

previously quoted, and applied and elucidated by Lord Ellenborough in
woooooooof woooof, wof wooooof wof woooooooof wf Woof Woooooooooof wf

the above cited case; these two laws touching Fast-Fish and Loose-Fish,
wof wooof wooof woof; wooof wof woof woooooof Woof-Woof wof Wooof-Woof,

I say, will, on reflection, be found the fundamentals of all human
W wof, woof, wf woooooooof, wf wooof wof woooooooooof wf wof wooof

jurisprudence; for notwithstanding its complicated tracery of sculpture,
wooooooooooof; wof wooooooooooooof wof wooooooooof wooooof wf wooooooof,

the Temple of the Law, like the Temple of the Philistines, has but two
wof Woooof wf wof Wof, woof wof Woooof wf wof Wooooooooof, wof wof wof

props to stand on.
wooof wf wooof wf.




Is it not a saying in every one's mouth, Possession is half of the law:
Wf wf wof w woooof wf wooof wof'w wooof, Woooooooof wf woof wf wof wof:

that is, regardless of how the thing came into possession? But often
woof wf, woooooooof wf wof wof wooof woof woof woooooooof? Wof wooof

possession is the whole of the law. What are the sinews and souls of
woooooooof wf wof wooof wf wof wof. Woof wof wof woooof wof wooof wf

Russian serfs and Republican slaves but Fast-Fish, whereof possession is
Wooooof wooof wof Woooooooof woooof wof Woof-Woof, wooooof woooooooof wf

the whole of the law? What to the rapacious landlord is the widow's last
wof wooof wf wof wof? Woof wf wof wooooooof woooooof wf wof wooof'w woof

mite but a Fast-Fish? What is yonder undetected villain's marble mansion
woof wof w Woof-Woof? Woof wf woooof woooooooof wooooof'w woooof wooooof

with a door-plate for a waif; what is that but a Fast-Fish? What is the
woof w woof-wooof wof w woof; woof wf woof wof w Woof-Woof? Woof wf wof

ruinous discount which Mordecai, the broker, gets from poor Woebegone,
wooooof woooooof wooof Woooooof, wof woooof, woof woof woof Wooooooof,

the bankrupt, on a loan to keep Woebegone's family from starvation;
wof woooooof, wf w woof wf woof Wooooooof'w woooof woof woooooooof;

what is that ruinous discount but a Fast-Fish? What is the Archbishop of
woof wf woof wooooof woooooof wof w Woof-Woof? Woof wf wof Woooooooof wf

Savesoul's income of L100,000 seized from the scant bread and cheese
Woooooof'w woooof wf WOOF,wof woooof woof wof wooof wooof wof woooof

of hundreds of thousands of broken-backed laborers (all sure of heaven
wf woooooof wf wooooooof wf woooof-woooof woooooof (wof woof wf woooof

without any of Savesoul's help) what is that globular L100,000 but a
wooooof wof wf Woooooof'w woof) woof wf woof woooooof WOOF,wof wof w

Fast-Fish? What are the Duke of Dunder's hereditary towns and hamlets
Woof-Woof? Woof wof wof Woof wf Woooof'w woooooooof wooof wof wooooof

but Fast-Fish? What to that redoubted harpooneer, John Bull, is poor
wof Woof-Woof? Woof wf woof wooooooof woooooooof, Woof Woof, wf woof

Ireland, but a Fast-Fish? What to that apostolic lancer, Brother
Wooooof, wof w Woof-Woof? Woof wf woof wooooooof woooof, Wooooof

Jonathan, is Texas but a Fast-Fish? And concerning all these, is not
Woooooof, wf Wooof wof w Woof-Woof? Wof woooooooof wof wooof, wf wof

Possession the whole of the law?
Woooooooof wof wooof wf wof wof?




But if the doctrine of Fast-Fish be pretty generally applicable,
Wof wf wof woooooof wf Woof-Woof wf woooof wooooooof woooooooof,

the kindred doctrine of Loose-Fish is still more widely so. That is
wof wooooof woooooof wf Wooof-Woof wf wooof woof woooof wf. Woof wf

internationally and universally applicable.
wooooooooooooof wof wooooooooof woooooooof.




What was America in 1492 but a Loose-Fish, in which Columbus struck the
Woof wof Wooooof wf woof wof w Wooof-Woof, wf wooof Woooooof woooof wof

Spanish standard by way of waifing it for his royal master and mistress?
Wooooof woooooof wf wof wf wooooof wf wof wof wooof woooof wof woooooof?

What was Poland to the Czar? What Greece to the Turk? What India
Woof wof Woooof wf wof Woof? Woof Woooof wf wof Woof? Woof Wooof

to England? What at last will Mexico be to the United States? All
wf Wooooof? Woof wf woof woof Woooof wf wf wof Woooof Woooof? Wof

Loose-Fish.
Wooof-Woof.




What are the Rights of Man and the Liberties of the World but
Woof wof wof Woooof wf Wof wof wof Wooooooof wf wof Wooof wof

Loose-Fish? What all men's minds and opinions but Loose-Fish? What is
Wooof-Woof? Woof wof wof'w wooof wof woooooof wof Wooof-Woof? Woof wf

the principle of religious belief in them but a Loose-Fish? What to
wof wooooooof wf wooooooof woooof wf woof wof w Wooof-Woof? Woof wf

the ostentatious smuggling verbalists are the thoughts of thinkers but
wof woooooooooof wooooooof woooooooof wof wof woooooof wf woooooof wof

Loose-Fish? What is the great globe itself but a Loose-Fish? And what
Wooof-Woof? Woof wf wof wooof wooof woooof wof w Wooof-Woof? Wof woof

are you, reader, but a Loose-Fish and a Fast-Fish, too?
wof wof, woooof, wof w Wooof-Woof wof w Woof-Woof, wof?










CHAPTER 90. Heads or Tails.
WOOOOOF wf. Wooof wf Wooof.







"De balena vero sufficit, si rex habeat caput, et regina caudam."
"Wf woooof woof woooooof, wf wof woooof wooof, wf woooof woooof."

BRACTON, L. 3, C. 3.
WOOOOOF, W. w, W. w.







Latin from the books of the Laws of England, which taken along with the
Wooof woof wof wooof wf wof Woof wf Wooooof, wooof wooof wooof woof wof

context, means, that of all whales captured by anybody on the coast of
wooooof, wooof, woof wf wof woooof woooooof wf wooooof wf wof wooof wf

that land, the King, as Honourary Grand Harpooneer, must have the head,
woof woof, wof Woof, wf Wooooooof Wooof Woooooooof, woof woof wof woof,

and the Queen be respectfully presented with the tail. A division which,
wof wof Wooof wf woooooooooof wooooooof woof wof woof. W woooooof wooof,

in the whale, is much like halving an apple; there is no intermediate
wf wof wooof, wf woof woof wooooof wf wooof; wooof wf wf woooooooooof

remainder. Now as this law, under a modified form, is to this day in
wooooooof. Wof wf woof wof, wooof w woooooof woof, wf wf woof wof wf

force in England; and as it offers in various respects a strange anomaly
wooof wf Wooooof; wof wf wf woooof wf wooooof woooooof w wooooof wooooof

touching the general law of Fast and Loose-Fish, it is here treated of
woooooof wof wooooof wof wf Woof wof Wooof-Woof, wf wf woof wooooof wf

in a separate chapter, on the same courteous principle that prompts
wf w woooooof wooooof, wf wof woof wooooooof wooooooof woof wooooof

the English railways to be at the expense of a separate car, specially
wof Wooooof woooooof wf wf wf wof wooooof wf w woooooof wof, wooooooof

reserved for the accommodation of royalty. In the first place, in
woooooof wof wof wooooooooooof wf wooooof. Wf wof wooof wooof, wf

curious proof of the fact that the above-mentioned law is still in
wooooof wooof wf wof woof woof wof wooof-wooooooof wof wf wooof wf

force, I proceed to lay before you a circumstance that happened within
wooof, W wooooof wf wof woooof wof w woooooooooof woof woooooof woooof

the last two years.
wof woof wof wooof.




It seems that some honest mariners of Dover, or Sandwich, or some one
Wf wooof woof woof woooof woooooof wf Wooof, wf Woooooof, wf woof wof

of the Cinque Ports, had after a hard chase succeeded in killing and
wf wof Woooof Wooof, wof wooof w woof wooof wooooooof wf wooooof wof

beaching a fine whale which they had originally descried afar off from
woooooof w woof wooof wooof woof wof woooooooof woooooof woof wof woof

the shore. Now the Cinque Ports are partially or somehow under the
wof wooof. Wof wof Woooof Wooof wof wooooooof wf wooooof wooof wof

jurisdiction of a sort of policeman or beadle, called a Lord Warden.
woooooooooof wf w woof wf wooooooof wf woooof, woooof w Woof Woooof.

Holding the office directly from the crown, I believe, all the royal
Wooooof wof woooof woooooof woof wof wooof, W wooooof, wof wof wooof

emoluments incident to the Cinque Port territories become by assignment
woooooooof woooooof wf wof Woooof Woof wooooooooof woooof wf woooooooof

his. By some writers this office is called a sinecure. But not so.
wof. Wf woof wooooof woof woooof wf woooof w woooooof. Wof wof wf.

Because the Lord Warden is busily employed at times in fobbing his
Wooooof wof Woof Woooof wf woooof woooooof wf wooof wf wooooof wof

perquisites; which are his chiefly by virtue of that same fobbing of
wooooooooof; wooof wof wof wooooof wf woooof wf woof woof wooooof wf

them.
woof.




Now when these poor sun-burnt mariners, bare-footed, and with their
Wof woof wooof woof wof-wooof woooooof, woof-woooof, wof woof wooof

trowsers rolled high up on their eely legs, had wearily hauled their fat
woooooof woooof woof wf wf wooof woof woof, wof wooooof woooof wooof wof

fish high and dry, promising themselves a good L150 from the precious
woof woof wof wof, wooooooof woooooooof w woof WOOF woof wof woooooof

oil and bone; and in fantasy sipping rare tea with their wives, and good
wof wof woof; wof wf wooooof wooooof woof wof woof wooof wooof, wof woof

ale with their cronies, upon the strength of their respective shares; up
wof woof wooof wooooof, woof wof woooooof wf wooof woooooooof woooof; wf

steps a very learned and most Christian and charitable gentleman, with
wooof w woof wooooof wof woof Wooooooof wof woooooooof wooooooof, woof

a copy of Blackstone under his arm; and laying it upon the whale's head,
w woof wf Woooooooof wooof wof wof; wof woooof wf woof wof wooof'w woof,

he says--"Hands off! this fish, my masters, is a Fast-Fish. I seize it
wf woof--"Wooof wof! woof woof, wf wooooof, wf w Woof-Woof. W wooof wf

as the Lord Warden's." Upon this the poor mariners in their respectful
wf wof Woof Woooof'w." Woof woof wof woof woooooof wf wooof woooooooof

consternation--so truly English--knowing not what to say, fall to
wooooooooooof--wf wooof Wooooof--wooooof wof woof wf wof, woof wf

vigorously scratching their heads all round; meanwhile ruefully glancing
woooooooof woooooooof wooof wooof wof wooof; wooooooof woooooof woooooof

from the whale to the stranger. But that did in nowise mend the matter,
woof wof wooof wf wof woooooof. Wof woof wof wf woooof woof wof woooof,

or at all soften the hard heart of the learned gentleman with the copy
wf wf wof woooof wof woof wooof wf wof wooooof wooooooof woof wof woof

of Blackstone. At length one of them, after long scratching about for
wf Woooooooof. Wf woooof wof wf woof, wooof woof woooooooof wooof wof

his ideas, made bold to speak,
wof wooof, woof woof wf wooof,




"Please, sir, who is the Lord Warden?"
"Woooof, wof, wof wf wof Woof Woooof?"




"The Duke."
"Wof Woof."




"But the duke had nothing to do with taking this fish?"
"Wof wof woof wof wooooof wf wf woof woooof woof woof?"




"It is his."
"Wf wf wof."




"We have been at great trouble, and peril, and some expense, and is
"Wf woof woof wf wooof wooooof, wof wooof, wof woof wooooof, wof wf

all that to go to the Duke's benefit; we getting nothing at all for our
wof woof wf wf wf wof Woof'w wooooof; wf wooooof wooooof wf wof wof wof

pains but our blisters?"
wooof wof wof woooooof?"




"It is his."
"Wf wf wof."




"Is the Duke so very poor as to be forced to this desperate mode of
"Wf wof Woof wf woof woof wf wf wf woooof wf woof wooooooof woof wf

getting a livelihood?"
wooooof w woooooooof?"




"It is his."
"Wf wf wof."




"I thought to relieve my old bed-ridden mother by part of my share of
"W wooooof wf wooooof wf wof wof-woooof woooof wf woof wf wf wooof wf

this whale."
woof wooof."




"It is his."
"Wf wf wof."




"Won't the Duke be content with a quarter or a half?"
"Wof'w wof Woof wf wooooof woof w wooooof wf w woof?"




"It is his."
"Wf wf wof."




In a word, the whale was seized and sold, and his Grace the Duke of
Wf w woof, wof wooof wof woooof wof woof, wof wof Wooof wof Woof wf

Wellington received the money. Thinking that viewed in some particular
Woooooooof woooooof wof wooof. Woooooof woof woooof wf woof woooooooof

lights, the case might by a bare possibility in some small degree be
woooof, wof woof wooof wf w woof wooooooooof wf woof wooof woooof wf

deemed, under the circumstances, a rather hard one, an honest clergyman
woooof, wooof wof wooooooooooof, w woooof woof wof, wf woooof wooooooof

of the town respectfully addressed a note to his Grace, begging him to
wf wof woof woooooooooof wooooooof w woof wf wof Wooof, wooooof wof wf

take the case of those unfortunate mariners into full consideration. To
woof wof woof wf wooof wooooooooof woooooof woof woof wooooooooooof. Wf

which my Lord Duke in substance replied (both letters were published)
wooof wf Woof Woof wf wooooooof wooooof (woof wooooof woof wooooooof)

that he had already done so, and received the money, and would be
woof wf wof wooooof woof wf, wof woooooof wof wooof, wof wooof wf

obliged to the reverend gentleman if for the future he (the reverend
wooooof wf wof woooooof wooooooof wf wof wof woooof wf (wof woooooof

gentleman) would decline meddling with other people's business. Is
wooooooof) wooof wooooof woooooof woof wooof woooof'w woooooof. Wf

this the still militant old man, standing at the corners of the three
woof wof wooof woooooof wof wof, woooooof wf wof wooooof wf wof wooof

kingdoms, on all hands coercing alms of beggars?
woooooof, wf wof wooof woooooof woof wf wooooof?




It will readily be seen that in this case the alleged right of the
Wf woof wooooof wf woof woof wf woof woof wof wooooof wooof wf wof

Duke to the whale was a delegated one from the Sovereign. We must needs
Woof wf wof wooof wof w wooooooof wof woof wof Wooooooof. Wf woof wooof

inquire then on what principle the Sovereign is originally invested with
wooooof woof wf woof wooooooof wof Wooooooof wf woooooooof woooooof woof

that right. The law itself has already been set forth. But Plowdon gives
woof wooof. Wof wof woooof wof wooooof woof wof wooof. Wof Wooooof wooof

us the reason for it. Says Plowdon, the whale so caught belongs to
wf wof woooof wof wf. Woof Wooooof, wof wooof wf woooof wooooof wf

the King and Queen, "because of its superior excellence." And by the
wof Woof wof Wooof, "wooooof wf wof woooooof woooooooof." Wof wf wof

soundest commentators this has ever been held a cogent argument in such
woooooof woooooooooof woof wof woof woof woof w woooof woooooof wf woof

matters.
wooooof.




But why should the King have the head, and the Queen the tail? A reason
Wof wof woooof wof Woof woof wof woof, wof wof Wooof wof woof? W woooof

for that, ye lawyers!
wof woof, wf wooooof!




In his treatise on "Queen-Gold," or Queen-pinmoney, an old King's Bench
Wf wof woooooof wf "Wooof-Woof," wf Wooof-woooooof, wf wof Woof'w Wooof

author, one William Prynne, thus discourseth: "Ye tail is ye Queen's,
woooof, wof Wooooof Woooof, woof wooooooooof: "Wf woof wf wf Wooof'w,

that ye Queen's wardrobe may be supplied with ye whalebone." Now this
woof wf Wooof'w woooooof wof wf woooooof woof wf wooooooof." Wof woof

was written at a time when the black limber bone of the Greenland or
wof wooooof wf w woof woof wof wooof woooof woof wf wof Wooooooof wf

Right whale was largely used in ladies' bodices. But this same bone
Wooof wooof wof wooooof woof wf woooof' wooooof. Wof woof woof woof

is not in the tail; it is in the head, which is a sad mistake for
wf wof wf wof woof; wf wf wf wof woof, wooof wf w wof wooooof wof

a sagacious lawyer like Prynne. But is the Queen a mermaid, to be
w wooooooof woooof woof Woooof. Wof wf wof Wooof w wooooof, wf wf

presented with a tail? An allegorical meaning may lurk here.
wooooooof woof w woof? Wf wooooooooof wooooof wof woof woof.




There are two royal fish so styled by the English law writers--the whale
Wooof wof wof wooof woof wf woooof wf wof Wooooof wof wooooof--wof wooof

and the sturgeon; both royal property under certain limitations, and
wof wof woooooof; woof wooof woooooof wooof wooooof wooooooooof, wof

nominally supplying the tenth branch of the crown's ordinary revenue.
wooooooof wooooooof wof wooof woooof wf wof wooof'w woooooof wooooof.

I know not that any other author has hinted of the matter; but by
W woof wof woof wof wooof woooof wof woooof wf wof woooof; wof wf

inference it seems to me that the sturgeon must be divided in the same
wooooooof wf wooof wf wf woof wof woooooof woof wf wooooof wf wof woof

way as the whale, the King receiving the highly dense and elastic head
wof wf wof wooof, wof Woof wooooooof wof woooof wooof wof wooooof woof

peculiar to that fish, which, symbolically regarded, may possibly be
woooooof wf woof woof, wooof, woooooooooof woooooof, wof woooooof wf

humorously grounded upon some presumed congeniality. And thus there
woooooooof woooooof woof woof woooooof woooooooooof. Wof woof wooof

seems a reason in all things, even in law.
wooof w woooof wf wof woooof, woof wf wof.










CHAPTER 91. The Pequod Meets The Rose-Bud.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Woooof Wooof Wof Woof-Wof.







"In vain it was to rake for Ambergriese in the paunch of this Leviathan,
"Wf woof wf wof wf woof wof Wooooooooof wf wof woooof wf woof Wooooooof,

insufferable fetor denying not inquiry." SIR T. BROWNE, V.E.
woooooooooof wooof wooooof wof wooooof." WOF W. WOOOOF, W.W.







It was a week or two after the last whaling scene recounted, and when we
Wf wof w woof wf wof wooof wof woof wooooof wooof wooooooof, wof woof wf

were slowly sailing over a sleepy, vapoury, mid-day sea, that the many
woof woooof wooooof woof w woooof, wooooof, wof-wof wof, woof wof woof

noses on the Pequod's deck proved more vigilant discoverers than the
wooof wf wof Woooof'w woof woooof woof woooooof wooooooooof woof wof

three pairs of eyes aloft. A peculiar and not very pleasant smell was
wooof wooof wf woof wooof. W woooooof wof wof woof woooooof wooof wof

smelt in the sea.
wooof wf wof wof.




"I will bet something now," said Stubb, "that somewhere hereabouts are
"W woof wof wooooooof wof," woof Wooof, "woof wooooooof woooooooof wof

some of those drugged whales we tickled the other day. I thought they
woof wf wooof wooooof woooof wf wooooof wof wooof wof. W wooooof woof

would keel up before long."
wooof woof wf woooof woof."




Presently, the vapours in advance slid aside; and there in the distance
Wooooooof, wof wooooof wf wooooof woof wooof; wof wooof wf wof woooooof

lay a ship, whose furled sails betokened that some sort of whale must be
wof w woof, wooof woooof wooof wooooooof woof woof woof wf wooof woof wf

alongside. As we glided nearer, the stranger showed French colours from
wooooooof. Wf wf woooof woooof, wof woooooof woooof Woooof wooooof woof

his peak; and by the eddying cloud of vulture sea-fowl that circled, and
wof woof; wof wf wof wooooof wooof wf wooooof wof-woof woof wooooof, wof

hovered, and swooped around him, it was plain that the whale alongside
wooooof, wof wooooof woooof wof, wf wof wooof woof wof wooof wooooooof

must be what the fishermen call a blasted whale, that is, a whale that
woof wf woof wof wooooooof woof w wooooof wooof, woof wf, w wooof woof

has died unmolested on the sea, and so floated an unappropriated corpse.
wof woof woooooooof wf wof wof, wof wf wooooof wf woooooooooooof woooof.

It may well be conceived, what an unsavory odor such a mass must
Wf wof woof wf wooooooof, woof wf woooooof woof woof w woof woof

exhale; worse than an Assyrian city in the plague, when the living are
woooof; wooof woof wf Woooooof woof wf wof woooof, woof wof woooof wof

incompetent to bury the departed. So intolerable indeed is it regarded
wooooooooof wf woof wof woooooof. Wf wooooooooof woooof wf wf woooooof

by some, that no cupidity could persuade them to moor alongside of it.
wf woof, woof wf woooooof wooof woooooof woof wf woof wooooooof wf wf.

Yet are there those who will still do it; notwithstanding the fact that
Wof wof wooof wooof wof woof wooof wf wf; wooooooooooooof wof woof woof

the oil obtained from such subjects is of a very inferior quality, and
wof wof woooooof woof woof woooooof wf wf w woof woooooof wooooof, wof

by no means of the nature of attar-of-rose.
wf wf wooof wf wof woooof wf wooof-wf-woof.




Coming still nearer with the expiring breeze, we saw that the Frenchman
Woooof wooof woooof woof wof woooooof woooof, wf wof woof wof Wooooooof

had a second whale alongside; and this second whale seemed even more
wof w woooof wooof wooooooof; wof woof woooof wooof woooof woof woof

of a nosegay than the first. In truth, it turned out to be one of
wf w wooooof woof wof wooof. Wf wooof, wf woooof wof wf wf wof wf

those problematical whales that seem to dry up and die with a sort
wooof wooooooooooof woooof woof woof wf wof wf wof wof woof w woof

of prodigious dyspepsia, or indigestion; leaving their defunct bodies
wf woooooooof wooooooof, wf wooooooooof; wooooof wooof wooooof woooof

almost entirely bankrupt of anything like oil. Nevertheless, in the
woooof woooooof woooooof wf woooooof woof wof. Woooooooooof, wf wof

proper place we shall see that no knowing fisherman will ever turn
woooof wooof wf wooof wof woof wf wooooof wooooooof woof woof woof

up his nose at such a whale as this, however much he may shun blasted
wf wof woof wf woof w wooof wf woof, wooooof woof wf wof woof wooooof

whales in general.
woooof wf wooooof.




The Pequod had now swept so nigh to the stranger, that Stubb vowed
Wof Woooof wof wof wooof wf woof wf wof woooooof, woof Wooof wooof

he recognised his cutting spade-pole entangled in the lines that were
wf woooooooof wof wooooof wooof-woof wooooooof wf wof wooof woof woof

knotted round the tail of one of these whales.
wooooof wooof wof woof wf wof wf wooof woooof.




"There's a pretty fellow, now," he banteringly laughed, standing in the
"Wooof'w w woooof woooof, wof," wf wooooooooof wooooof, woooooof wf wof

ship's bows, "there's a jackal for ye! I well know that these Crappoes
woof'w woof, "wooof'w w woooof wof wf! W woof woof woof wooof Woooooof

of Frenchmen are but poor devils in the fishery; sometimes lowering
wf Wooooooof wof wof woof woooof wf wof wooooof; wooooooof woooooof

their boats for breakers, mistaking them for Sperm Whale spouts; yes,
wooof wooof wof woooooof, wooooooof woof wof Wooof Wooof woooof; wof,

and sometimes sailing from their port with their hold full of boxes of
wof wooooooof wooooof woof wooof woof woof wooof woof woof wf wooof wf

tallow candles, and cases of snuffers, foreseeing that all the oil they
woooof wooooof, wof wooof wf woooooof, woooooooof woof wof wof wof woof

will get won't be enough to dip the Captain's wick into; aye, we all
woof wof wof'w wf woooof wf wof wof Wooooof'w woof woof; wof, wf wof

know these things; but look ye, here's a Crappo that is content with our
woof wooof woooof; wof woof wf, woof'w w Woooof woof wf wooooof woof wof

leavings, the drugged whale there, I mean; aye, and is content too with
woooooof, wof wooooof wooof wooof, W woof; wof, wof wf wooooof wof woof

scraping the dry bones of that other precious fish he has there. Poor
woooooof wof wof wooof wf woof wooof woooooof woof wf wof wooof. Woof

devil! I say, pass round a hat, some one, and let's make him a present
wooof! W wof, woof wooof w wof, woof wof, wof wof'w woof wof w wooooof

of a little oil for dear charity's sake. For what oil he'll get from
wf w woooof wof wof woof wooooof'w woof. Wof woof wof wf'wf wof woof

that drugged whale there, wouldn't be fit to burn in a jail; no, not
woof wooooof wooof wooof, woooof'w wf wof wf woof wf w woof; wf, wof

in a condemned cell. And as for the other whale, why, I'll agree to get
wf w wooooooof woof. Wof wf wof wof wooof wooof, wof, W'wf wooof wf wof

more oil by chopping up and trying out these three masts of ours, than
woof wof wf woooooof wf wof woooof wof wooof wooof wooof wf woof, woof

he'll get from that bundle of bones; though, now that I think of it, it
wf'wf wof woof woof woooof wf wooof; woooof, wof woof W wooof wf wf, wf

may contain something worth a good deal more than oil; yes, ambergris.
wof wooooof wooooooof wooof w woof woof woof woof wof; wof, wooooooof.

I wonder now if our old man has thought of that. It's worth trying. Yes,
W woooof wof wf wof wof wof wof wooooof wf woof. Wf'w wooof woooof. Wof,

I'm for it;" and so saying he started for the quarter-deck.
W'w wof wf;" wof wf woooof wf wooooof wof wof wooooof-woof.




By this time the faint air had become a complete calm; so that whether
Wf woof woof wof wooof wof wof woooof w woooooof woof; wf woof wooooof

or no, the Pequod was now fairly entrapped in the smell, with no hope of
wf wf, wof Woooof wof wof woooof wooooooof wf wof wooof, woof wf woof wf

escaping except by its breezing up again. Issuing from the cabin, Stubb
woooooof woooof wf wof woooooof wf wooof. Wooooof woof wof wooof, Wooof

now called his boat's crew, and pulled off for the stranger. Drawing
wof woooof wof woof'w woof, wof woooof wof wof wof woooooof. Wooooof

across her bow, he perceived that in accordance with the fanciful French
woooof wof wof, wf wooooooof woof wf woooooooof woof wof woooooof Woooof

taste, the upper part of her stem-piece was carved in the likeness of a
wooof, wof wooof woof wf wof woof-wooof wof woooof wf wof woooooof wf w

huge drooping stalk, was painted green, and for thorns had copper
woof woooooof wooof, wof wooooof wooof, wof wof woooof wof woooof

spikes projecting from it here and there; the whole terminating in a
woooof woooooooof woof wf woof wof wooof; wof wooof wooooooooof wf w

symmetrical folded bulb of a bright red colour. Upon her head boards, in
wooooooooof woooof woof wf w woooof wof woooof. Woof wof woof woooof, wf

large gilt letters, he read "Bouton de Rose,"--Rose-button, or Rose-bud;
wooof woof wooooof, wf woof "Woooof wf Woof,"--Woof-woooof, wf Woof-wof;

and this was the romantic name of this aromatic ship.
wof woof wof wof woooooof woof wf woof woooooof woof.




Though Stubb did not understand the BOUTON part of the inscription, yet
Woooof Wooof wof wof woooooooof wof WOOOOF woof wf wof wooooooooof, wof

the word ROSE, and the bulbous figure-head put together, sufficiently
wof woof WOOF, wof wof wooooof woooof-woof wof woooooof, woooooooooof

explained the whole to him.
wooooooof wof wooof wf wof.




"A wooden rose-bud, eh?" he cried with his hand to his nose, "that will
"W woooof woof-wof, wf?" wf wooof woof wof woof wf wof woof, "woof woof

do very well; but how like all creation it smells!"
wf woof woof; wof wof woof wof woooooof wf woooof!"




Now in order to hold direct communication with the people on deck, he
Wof wf wooof wf woof woooof wooooooooooof woof wof woooof wf woof, wf

had to pull round the bows to the starboard side, and thus come close to
wof wf woof wooof wof woof wf wof wooooooof woof, wof woof woof wooof wf

the blasted whale; and so talk over it.
wof wooooof wooof; wof wf woof woof wf.




Arrived then at this spot, with one hand still to his nose, he
Wooooof woof wf woof woof, woof wof woof wooof wf wof woof, wf

bawled--"Bouton-de-Rose, ahoy! are there any of you Bouton-de-Roses that
woooof--"Woooof-wf-Woof, woof! wof wooof wof wf wof Woooof-wf-Wooof woof

speak English?"
wooof Wooooof?"




"Yes," rejoined a Guernsey-man from the bulwarks, who turned out to be
"Wof," woooooof w Woooooof-wof woof wof woooooof, wof woooof wof wf wf

the chief-mate.
wof wooof-woof.




"Well, then, my Bouton-de-Rose-bud, have you seen the White Whale?"
"Woof, woof, wf Woooof-wf-Woof-wof, woof wof woof wof Wooof Wooof?"




"WHAT whale?"
"WOOF wooof?"




"The WHITE Whale--a Sperm Whale--Moby Dick, have ye seen him?
"Wof WOOOF Wooof--w Wooof Wooof--Woof Woof, woof wf woof wof?




"Never heard of such a whale. Cachalot Blanche! White Whale--no."
"Wooof wooof wf woof w wooof. Woooooof Wooooof! Wooof Wooof--wf."




"Very good, then; good bye now, and I'll call again in a minute."
"Woof woof, woof; woof wof wof, wof W'wf woof wooof wf w woooof."




Then rapidly pulling back towards the Pequod, and seeing Ahab leaning
Woof wooooof wooooof woof wooooof wof Woooof, wof woooof Woof wooooof

over the quarter-deck rail awaiting his report, he moulded his two hands
woof wof wooooof-woof woof woooooof wof woooof, wf wooooof wof wof wooof

into a trumpet and shouted--"No, Sir! No!" Upon which Ahab retired, and
woof w wooooof wof wooooof--"Wf, Wof! Wf!" Woof wooof Woof wooooof, wof

Stubb returned to the Frenchman.
Wooof woooooof wf wof Wooooooof.




He now perceived that the Guernsey-man, who had just got into the
Wf wof wooooooof woof wof Woooooof-wof, wof wof woof wof woof wof

chains, and was using a cutting-spade, had slung his nose in a sort of
woooof, wof wof wooof w wooooof-wooof, wof wooof wof woof wf w woof wf

bag.
wof.




"What's the matter with your nose, there?" said Stubb. "Broke it?"
"Woof'w wof woooof woof woof woof, wooof?" woof Wooof. "Wooof wf?"




"I wish it was broken, or that I didn't have any nose at all!" answered
"W woof wf wof woooof, wf woof W woof'w woof wof woof wf wof!" woooooof

the Guernsey-man, who did not seem to relish the job he was at very
wof Woooooof-wof, wof wof wof woof wf woooof wof wof wf wof wf woof

much. "But what are you holding YOURS for?"
woof. "Wof woof wof wof wooooof WOOOF wof?"




"Oh, nothing! It's a wax nose; I have to hold it on. Fine day, ain't it?
"Wf, wooooof! Wf'w w wof woof; W woof wf woof wf wf. Woof wof, wof'w wf?

Air rather gardenny, I should say; throw us a bunch of posies, will ye,
Wof woooof woooooof, W woooof wof; wooof wf w wooof wf woooof, woof wf,

Bouton-de-Rose?"
Woooof-wf-Woof?"




"What in the devil's name do you want here?" roared the Guernseyman,
"Woof wf wof wooof'w woof wf wof woof woof?" woooof wof Wooooooooof,

flying into a sudden passion.
woooof woof w woooof wooooof.




"Oh! keep cool--cool? yes, that's the word! why don't you pack those
"Wf! woof woof--woof? wof, woof'w wof woof! wof wof'w wof woof wooof

whales in ice while you're working at 'em? But joking aside, though; do
woooof wf wof wooof wof'wf wooooof wf 'wf? Wof woooof wooof, woooof; wf

you know, Rose-bud, that it's all nonsense trying to get any oil out of
wof woof, Woof-wof, woof wf'w wof woooooof woooof wf wof wof wof wof wf

such whales? As for that dried up one, there, he hasn't a gill in his
woof woooof? Wf wof woof wooof wf wof, wooof, wf woof'w w woof wf wof

whole carcase."
wooof wooooof."




"I know that well enough; but, d'ye see, the Captain here won't believe
"W woof woof woof woooof; wof, w'wf wof, wof Wooooof woof wof'w wooooof

it; this is his first voyage; he was a Cologne manufacturer before. But
wf; woof wf wof wooof woooof; wf wof w Wooooof woooooooooof woooof. Wof

come aboard, and mayhap he'll believe you, if he won't me; and so I'll
woof woooof, wof woooof wf'wf wooooof wof, wf wf wof'w wf; wof wf W'wf

get out of this dirty scrape."
wof wof wf woof wooof woooof."




"Anything to oblige ye, my sweet and pleasant fellow," rejoined Stubb,
"Woooooof wf woooof wf, wf wooof wof woooooof woooof," woooooof Wooof,

and with that he soon mounted to the deck. There a queer scene presented
wof woof woof wf woof wooooof wf wof woof. Wooof w wooof wooof wooooooof

itself. The sailors, in tasselled caps of red worsted, were getting the
woooof. Wof wooooof, wf wooooooof woof wf wof wooooof, woof wooooof wof

heavy tackles in readiness for the whales. But they worked rather slow
wooof wooooof wf wooooooof wof wof woooof. Wof woof woooof woooof woof

and talked very fast, and seemed in anything but a good humor. All their
wof woooof woof woof, wof woooof wf woooooof wof w woof wooof. Wof wooof

noses upwardly projected from their faces like so many jib-booms.
wooof woooooof wooooooof woof wooof wooof woof wf woof wof-wooof.

Now and then pairs of them would drop their work, and run up to the
Wof wof woof wooof wf woof wooof woof wooof woof, wof wof wf wf wof

mast-head to get some fresh air. Some thinking they would catch the
woof-woof wf wof woof wooof wof. Woof woooooof woof wooof wooof wof

plague, dipped oakum in coal-tar, and at intervals held it to their
woooof, woooof wooof wf woof-wof, wof wf wooooooof woof wf wf wooof

nostrils. Others having broken the stems of their pipes almost short
woooooof. Woooof woooof woooof wof wooof wf wooof wooof woooof wooof

off at the bowl, were vigorously puffing tobacco-smoke, so that it
wof wf wof woof, woof woooooooof wooooof wooooof-wooof, wf woof wf

constantly filled their olfactories.
woooooooof woooof wooof wooooooooof.




Stubb was struck by a shower of outcries and anathemas proceeding from
Wooof wof woooof wf w woooof wf woooooof wof wooooooof woooooooof woof

the Captain's round-house abaft; and looking in that direction saw a
wof Wooooof'w wooof-wooof wooof; wof wooooof wf woof wooooooof wof w

fiery face thrust from behind the door, which was held ajar from within.
wooof woof woooof woof woooof wof woof, wooof wof woof woof woof woooof.

This was the tormented surgeon, who, after in vain remonstrating
Woof wof wof wooooooof wooooof, wof, wooof wf woof wooooooooooof

against the proceedings of the day, had betaken himself to the Captain's
wooooof wof wooooooooof wf wof wof, wof wooooof wooooof wf wof Wooooof'w

round-house (CABINET he called it) to avoid the pest; but still, could
wooof-wooof (WOOOOOF wf woooof wf) wf wooof wof woof; wof wooof, wooof

not help yelling out his entreaties and indignations at times.
wof woof wooooof wof wof woooooooof wof woooooooooof wf wooof.




Marking all this, Stubb argued well for his scheme, and turning to the
Wooooof wof woof, Wooof woooof woof wof wof woooof, wof wooooof wf wof

Guernsey-man had a little chat with him, during which the stranger mate
Woooooof-wof wof w woooof woof woof wof, woooof wooof wof woooooof woof

expressed his detestation of his Captain as a conceited ignoramus,
wooooooof wof wooooooooof wf wof Wooooof wf w wooooooof wooooooof,

who had brought them all into so unsavory and unprofitable a pickle.
wof wof wooooof woof wof woof wf woooooof wof woooooooooof w woooof.

Sounding him carefully, Stubb further perceived that the Guernsey-man
Woooooof wof wooooooof, Wooof wooooof wooooooof woof wof Woooooof-wof

had not the slightest suspicion concerning the ambergris. He therefore
wof wof wof wooooooof wooooooof woooooooof wof wooooooof. Wf wooooooof

held his peace on that head, but otherwise was quite frank and
woof wof wooof wf woof woof, wof wooooooof wof wooof wooof wof

confidential with him, so that the two quickly concocted a little plan
woooooooooof woof wof, wf woof wof wof wooooof wooooooof w woooof woof

for both circumventing and satirizing the Captain, without his at all
wof woof wooooooooooof wof woooooooof wof Wooooof, wooooof wof wf wof

dreaming of distrusting their sincerity. According to this little plan
woooooof wf wooooooooof wooof wooooooof. Wooooooof wf woof woooof woof

of theirs, the Guernsey-man, under cover of an interpreter's office, was
wf woooof, wof Woooooof-wof, wooof wooof wf wf wooooooooof'w woooof, wof

to tell the Captain what he pleased, but as coming from Stubb; and as
wf woof wof Wooooof woof wf wooooof, wof wf woooof woof Wooof; wof wf

for Stubb, he was to utter any nonsense that should come uppermost in
wof Wooof, wf wof wf wooof wof woooooof woof woooof woof wooooooof wf

him during the interview.
wof woooof wof wooooooof.




By this time their destined victim appeared from his cabin. He was a
Wf woof woof wooof woooooof woooof woooooof woof wof wooof. Wf wof w

small and dark, but rather delicate looking man for a sea-captain, with
wooof wof woof, wof woooof woooooof wooooof wof wof w wof-wooooof, woof

large whiskers and moustache, however; and wore a red cotton velvet vest
wooof woooooof wof wooooooof, wooooof; wof woof w wof woooof woooof woof

with watch-seals at his side. To this gentleman, Stubb was now politely
woof wooof-wooof wf wof woof. Wf woof wooooooof, Wooof wof wof woooooof

introduced by the Guernsey-man, who at once ostentatiously put on the
woooooooof wf wof Woooooof-wof, wof wf woof woooooooooooof wof wf wof

aspect of interpreting between them.
woooof wf woooooooooof wooooof woof.




"What shall I say to him first?" said he.
"Woof wooof W wof wf wof wooof?" woof wf.




"Why," said Stubb, eyeing the velvet vest and the watch and seals, "you
"Wof," woof Wooof, woooof wof woooof woof wof wof wooof wof wooof, "wof

may as well begin by telling him that he looks a sort of babyish to me,
wof wf woof wooof wf wooooof wof woof wf wooof w woof wf wooooof wf wf,

though I don't pretend to be a judge."
woooof W wof'w wooooof wf wf w wooof."




"He says, Monsieur," said the Guernsey-man, in French, turning to his
"Wf woof, Woooooof," woof wof Woooooof-wof, wf Woooof, wooooof wf wof

captain, "that only yesterday his ship spoke a vessel, whose captain
wooooof, "woof woof wooooooof wof woof wooof w woooof, wooof wooooof

and chief-mate, with six sailors, had all died of a fever caught from a
wof wooof-woof, woof wof wooooof, wof wof woof wf w wooof woooof woof w

blasted whale they had brought alongside."
wooooof wooof woof wof wooooof wooooooof."




Upon this the captain started, and eagerly desired to know more.
Woof woof wof wooooof wooooof, wof wooooof wooooof wf woof woof.




"What now?" said the Guernsey-man to Stubb.
"Woof wof?" woof wof Woooooof-wof wf Wooof.




"Why, since he takes it so easy, tell him that now I have eyed him
"Wof, wooof wf wooof wf wf woof, woof wof woof wof W woof woof wof

carefully, I'm quite certain that he's no more fit to command a
wooooooof, W'w wooof wooooof woof wf'w wf woof wof wf wooooof w

whale-ship than a St. Jago monkey. In fact, tell him from me he's a
wooof-woof woof w Wf. Woof woooof. Wf woof, woof wof woof wf wf'w w

baboon."
woooof."




"He vows and declares, Monsieur, that the other whale, the dried one, is
"Wf woof wof woooooof, Woooooof, woof wof wooof wooof, wof wooof wof, wf

far more deadly than the blasted one; in fine, Monsieur, he conjures us,
wof woof woooof woof wof wooooof wof; wf woof, Woooooof, wf woooooof wf,

as we value our lives, to cut loose from these fish."
wf wf wooof wof wooof, wf wof wooof woof wooof woof."




Instantly the captain ran forward, and in a loud voice commanded his
Wooooooof wof wooooof wof wooooof, wof wf w woof wooof wooooooof wof

crew to desist from hoisting the cutting-tackles, and at once cast loose
woof wf woooof woof woooooof wof wooooof-wooooof, wof wf woof woof wooof

the cables and chains confining the whales to the ship.
wof woooof wof woooof wooooooof wof woooof wf wof woof.




"What now?" said the Guernsey-man, when the Captain had returned to
"Woof wof?" woof wof Woooooof-wof, woof wof Wooooof wof woooooof wf

them.
woof.




"Why, let me see; yes, you may as well tell him now that--that--in
"Wof, wof wf wof; wof, wof wof wf woof woof wof wof woof--woof--wf

fact, tell him I've diddled him, and (aside to himself) perhaps somebody
woof, woof wof W'wf wooooof wof, wof (wooof wf wooooof) wooooof woooooof

else."
woof."




"He says, Monsieur, that he's very happy to have been of any service to
"Wf woof, Woooooof, woof wf'w woof wooof wf woof woof wf wof wooooof wf

us."
wf."




Hearing this, the captain vowed that they were the grateful parties
Wooooof woof, wof wooooof wooof woof woof woof wof woooooof wooooof

(meaning himself and mate) and concluded by inviting Stubb down into his
(wooooof wooooof wof woof) wof wooooooof wf woooooof Wooof woof woof wof

cabin to drink a bottle of Bordeaux.
wooof wf wooof w woooof wf Woooooof.




"He wants you to take a glass of wine with him," said the interpreter.
"Wf wooof wof wf woof w wooof wf woof woof wof," woof wof wooooooooof.




"Thank him heartily; but tell him it's against my principles to drink
"Wooof wof woooooof; wof woof wof wf'w wooooof wf woooooooof wf wooof

with the man I've diddled. In fact, tell him I must go."
woof wof wof W'wf wooooof. Wf woof, woof wof W woof wf."




"He says, Monsieur, that his principles won't admit of his drinking; but
"Wf woof, Woooooof, woof wof woooooooof wof'w wooof wf wof woooooof; wof

that if Monsieur wants to live another day to drink, then Monsieur had
woof wf Woooooof wooof wf woof wooooof wof wf wooof, woof Woooooof wof

best drop all four boats, and pull the ship away from these whales, for
woof woof wof woof wooof, wof woof wof woof woof woof wooof woooof, wof

it's so calm they won't drift."
wf'w wf woof woof wof'w wooof."




By this time Stubb was over the side, and getting into his boat, hailed
Wf woof woof Wooof wof woof wof woof, wof wooooof woof wof woof, woooof

the Guernsey-man to this effect,--that having a long tow-line in his
wof Woooooof-wof wf woof woooof,--woof woooof w woof wof-woof wf wof

boat, he would do what he could to help them, by pulling out the lighter
woof, wf wooof wf woof wf wooof wf woof woof, wf wooooof wof wof wooooof

whale of the two from the ship's side. While the Frenchman's boats,
wooof wf wof wof woof wof woof'w woof. Wooof wof Wooooooof'w wooof,

then, were engaged in towing the ship one way, Stubb benevolently towed
woof, woof wooooof wf woooof wof woof wof wof, Wooof woooooooooof wooof

away at his whale the other way, ostentatiously slacking out a most
woof wf wof wooof wof wooof wof, woooooooooooof woooooof wof w woof

unusually long tow-line.
wooooooof woof wof-woof.




Presently a breeze sprang up; Stubb feigned to cast off from the whale;
Wooooooof w woooof woooof wf; Wooof wooooof wf woof wof woof wof wooof;

hoisting his boats, the Frenchman soon increased his distance, while the
woooooof wof wooof, wof Wooooooof woof wooooooof wof woooooof, wooof wof

Pequod slid in between him and Stubb's whale. Whereupon Stubb quickly
Woooof woof wf wooooof wof wof Wooof'w wooof. Wooooooof Wooof wooooof

pulled to the floating body, and hailing the Pequod to give notice of
woooof wf wof woooooof woof, wof wooooof wof Woooof wf woof woooof wf

his intentions, at once proceeded to reap the fruit of his unrighteous
wof woooooooof, wf woof wooooooof wf woof wof wooof wf wof wooooooooof

cunning. Seizing his sharp boat-spade, he commenced an excavation in the
wooooof. Wooooof wof wooof woof-wooof, wf wooooooof wf woooooooof wf wof

body, a little behind the side fin. You would almost have thought he was
woof, w woooof woooof wof woof wof. Wof wooof woooof woof wooooof wf wof

digging a cellar there in the sea; and when at length his spade struck
wooooof w woooof wooof wf wof wof; wof woof wf woooof wof wooof woooof

against the gaunt ribs, it was like turning up old Roman tiles and
wooooof wof wooof woof, wf wof woof wooooof wf wof Wooof wooof wof

pottery buried in fat English loam. His boat's crew were all in high
wooooof woooof wf wof Wooooof woof. Wof woof'w woof woof wof wf woof

excitement, eagerly helping their chief, and looking as anxious as
woooooooof, wooooof wooooof wooof wooof, wof wooooof wf wooooof wf

gold-hunters.
woof-wooooof.




And all the time numberless fowls were diving, and ducking, and
Wof wof wof woof woooooooof wooof woof woooof, wof wooooof, wof

screaming, and yelling, and fighting around them. Stubb was beginning
wooooooof, wof wooooof, wof woooooof woooof woof. Wooof wof wooooooof

to look disappointed, especially as the horrible nosegay increased, when
wf woof woooooooooof, woooooooof wf wof woooooof wooooof wooooooof, woof

suddenly from out the very heart of this plague, there stole a faint
woooooof woof wof wof woof wooof wf woof woooof, wooof wooof w wooof

stream of perfume, which flowed through the tide of bad smells without
woooof wf wooooof, wooof woooof wooooof wof woof wf wof woooof wooooof

being absorbed by it, as one river will flow into and then along with
wooof woooooof wf wf, wf wof wooof woof woof woof wof woof wooof woof

another, without at all blending with it for a time.
wooooof, wooooof wf wof woooooof woof wf wof w woof.




"I have it, I have it," cried Stubb, with delight, striking something in
"W woof wf, W woof wf," wooof Wooof, woof wooooof, woooooof wooooooof wf

the subterranean regions, "a purse! a purse!"
wof woooooooooof wooooof, "w wooof! w wooof!"




Dropping his spade, he thrust both hands in, and drew out handfuls
Woooooof wof wooof, wf woooof woof wooof wf, wof woof wof woooooof

of something that looked like ripe Windsor soap, or rich mottled old
wf wooooooof woof woooof woof woof Wooooof woof, wf woof wooooof wof

cheese; very unctuous and savory withal. You might easily dent it with
woooof; woof woooooof wof woooof woooof. Wof wooof woooof woof wf woof

your thumb; it is of a hue between yellow and ash colour. And this, good
woof wooof; wf wf wf w wof wooooof woooof wof wof woooof. Wof woof, woof

friends, is ambergris, worth a gold guinea an ounce to any druggist.
wooooof, wf wooooooof, wooof w woof woooof wf wooof wf wof woooooof.

Some six handfuls were obtained; but more was unavoidably lost in the
Woof wof woooooof woof woooooof; wof woof wof wooooooooof woof wf wof

sea, and still more, perhaps, might have been secured were it not for
wof, wof wooof woof, wooooof, wooof woof woof wooooof woof wf wof wof

impatient Ahab's loud command to Stubb to desist, and come on board,
wooooooof Woof'w woof wooooof wf Wooof wf woooof, wof woof wf wooof,

else the ship would bid them good bye.
woof wof woof wooof wof woof woof wof.










CHAPTER 92. Ambergris.
WOOOOOF wf. Wooooooof.







Now this ambergris is a very curious substance, and so important as
Wof woof wooooooof wf w woof wooooof wooooooof, wof wf wooooooof wf

an article of commerce, that in 1791 a certain Nantucket-born Captain
wf wooooof wf woooooof, woof wf woof w wooooof Wooooooof-woof Wooooof

Coffin was examined at the bar of the English House of Commons on that
Woooof wof woooooof wf wof wof wf wof Wooooof Wooof wf Wooooof wf woof

subject. For at that time, and indeed until a comparatively late day,
wooooof. Wof wf woof woof, wof woooof wooof w wooooooooooof woof wof,

the precise origin of ambergris remained, like amber itself, a problem
wof wooooof woooof wf wooooooof woooooof, woof wooof woooof, w wooooof

to the learned. Though the word ambergris is but the French compound for
wf wof wooooof. Woooof wof woof wooooooof wf wof wof Woooof woooooof wof

grey amber, yet the two substances are quite distinct. For amber, though
woof wooof, wof wof wof woooooooof wof wooof woooooof. Wof wooof, woooof

at times found on the sea-coast, is also dug up in some far inland
wf wooof wooof wf wof wof-wooof, wf woof wof wf wf woof wof woooof

soils, whereas ambergris is never found except upon the sea. Besides,
wooof, wooooof wooooooof wf wooof wooof woooof woof wof wof. Wooooof,

amber is a hard, transparent, brittle, odorless substance, used for
wooof wf w woof, wooooooooof, wooooof, woooooof wooooooof, woof wof

mouth-pieces to pipes, for beads and ornaments; but ambergris is soft,
wooof-woooof wf wooof, wof wooof wof wooooooof; wof wooooooof wf woof,

waxy, and so highly fragrant and spicy, that it is largely used in
woof, wof wf woooof woooooof wof wooof, woof wf wf wooooof woof wf

perfumery, in pastiles, precious candles, hair-powders, and pomatum.
wooooooof, wf woooooof, woooooof wooooof, woof-wooooof, wof wooooof.

The Turks use it in cooking, and also carry it to Mecca, for the same
Wof Wooof wof wf wf wooooof, wof woof wooof wf wf Wooof, wof wof woof

purpose that frankincense is carried to St. Peter's in Rome. Some wine
wooooof woof woooooooooof wf wooooof wf Wf. Wooof'w wf Woof. Woof woof

merchants drop a few grains into claret, to flavor it.
wooooooof woof w wof woooof woof woooof, wf woooof wf.




Who would think, then, that such fine ladies and gentlemen should regale
Wof wooof wooof, woof, woof woof woof woooof wof wooooooof woooof woooof

themselves with an essence found in the inglorious bowels of a sick
woooooooof woof wf wooooof wooof wf wof woooooooof woooof wf w woof

whale! Yet so it is. By some, ambergris is supposed to be the cause, and
wooof! Wof wf wf wf. Wf woof, wooooooof wf woooooof wf wf wof wooof, wof

by others the effect, of the dyspepsia in the whale. How to cure such
wf woooof wof woooof, wf wof wooooooof wf wof wooof. Wof wf woof woof

a dyspepsia it were hard to say, unless by administering three or four
w wooooooof wf woof woof wf wof, woooof wf wooooooooooof wooof wf woof

boat loads of Brandreth's pills, and then running out of harm's way, as
woof wooof wf Wooooooof'w wooof, wof woof wooooof wof wf woof'w wof, wf

laborers do in blasting rocks.
woooooof wf wf woooooof wooof.




I have forgotten to say that there were found in this ambergris, certain
W woof wooooooof wf wof woof wooof woof wooof wf woof wooooooof, wooooof

hard, round, bony plates, which at first Stubb thought might be sailors'
woof, wooof, woof woooof, wooof wf wooof Wooof wooooof wooof wf wooooof'

trowsers buttons; but it afterwards turned out that they were nothing
woooooof wooooof; wof wf woooooooof woooof wof woof woof woof wooooof

more than pieces of small squid bones embalmed in that manner.
woof woof woooof wf wooof wooof wooof woooooof wf woof woooof.




Now that the incorruption of this most fragrant ambergris should be
Wof woof wof woooooooooof wf woof woof woooooof wooooooof woooof wf

found in the heart of such decay; is this nothing? Bethink thee of that
wooof wf wof wooof wf woof wooof; wf woof wooooof? Wooooof woof wf woof

saying of St. Paul in Corinthians, about corruption and incorruption;
woooof wf Wf. Woof wf Wooooooooof, wooof woooooooof wof woooooooooof;

how that we are sown in dishonour, but raised in glory. And likewise
wof woof wf wof woof wf wooooooof, wof woooof wf wooof. Wof woooooof

call to mind that saying of Paracelsus about what it is that maketh
woof wf woof woof woooof wf Woooooooof wooof woof wf wf woof woooof

the best musk. Also forget not the strange fact that of all things of
wof woof woof. Woof woooof wof wof wooooof woof woof wf wof woooof wf

ill-savor, Cologne-water, in its rudimental manufacturing stages, is the
wof-wooof, Wooooof-wooof, wf wof woooooooof wooooooooooof woooof, wf wof

worst.
wooof.




I should like to conclude the chapter with the above appeal, but cannot,
W woooof woof wf woooooof wof wooooof woof wof wooof woooof, wof woooof,

owing to my anxiety to repel a charge often made against whalemen,
wooof wf wf wooooof wf wooof w woooof wooof woof wooooof woooooof,

and which, in the estimation of some already biased minds, might be
wof wooof, wf wof woooooooof wf woof wooooof woooof wooof, wooof wf

considered as indirectly substantiated by what has been said of
woooooooof wf woooooooof wooooooooooof wf woof wof woof woof wf

the Frenchman's two whales. Elsewhere in this volume the slanderous
wof Wooooooof'w wof woooof. Wooooooof wf woof woooof wof woooooooof

aspersion has been disproved, that the vocation of whaling is throughout
wooooooof wof woof wooooooof, woof wof woooooof wf wooooof wf woooooooof

a slatternly, untidy business. But there is another thing to rebut. They
w woooooooof, woooof woooooof. Wof wooof wf wooooof wooof wf wooof. Woof

hint that all whales always smell bad. Now how did this odious stigma
woof woof wof woooof woooof wooof wof. Wof wof wof woof woooof woooof

originate?
wooooooof?




I opine, that it is plainly traceable to the first arrival of the
W wooof, woof wf wf wooooof wooooooof wf wof wooof wooooof wf wof

Greenland whaling ships in London, more than two centuries ago. Because
Wooooooof wooooof wooof wf Woooof, woof woof wof wooooooof wof. Wooooof

those whalemen did not then, and do not now, try out their oil at sea as
wooof woooooof wof wof woof, wof wf wof wof, wof wof wooof wof wf wof wf

the Southern ships have always done; but cutting up the fresh blubber in
wof Woooooof wooof woof woooof woof; wof wooooof wf wof wooof wooooof wf

small bits, thrust it through the bung holes of large casks, and carry
wooof woof, woooof wf wooooof wof woof wooof wf wooof wooof, wof wooof

it home in that manner; the shortness of the season in those Icy Seas,
wf woof wf woof woooof; wof wooooooof wf wof woooof wf wooof Wof Woof,

and the sudden and violent storms to which they are exposed, forbidding
wof wof woooof wof wooooof woooof wf wooof woof wof wooooof, woooooooof

any other course. The consequence is, that upon breaking into the hold,
wof wooof woooof. Wof wooooooooof wf, woof woof woooooof woof wof woof,

and unloading one of these whale cemeteries, in the Greenland dock, a
wof wooooooof wof wf wooof wooof woooooooof, wf wof Wooooooof woof, w

savor is given forth somewhat similar to that arising from excavating an
wooof wf wooof wooof woooooof wooooof wf woof wooooof woof woooooooof wf

old city grave-yard, for the foundations of a Lying-in-Hospital.
wof woof wooof-woof, wof wof wooooooooof wf w Wooof-wf-Woooooof.




I partly surmise also, that this wicked charge against whalers may be
W woooof wooooof woof, woof woof woooof woooof wooooof wooooof wof wf

likewise imputed to the existence on the coast of Greenland, in former
woooooof wooooof wf wof wooooooof wf wof wooof wf Wooooooof, wf woooof

times, of a Dutch village called Schmerenburgh or Smeerenberg, which
wooof, wf w Wooof wooooof woooof Wooooooooooof wf Wooooooooof, wooof

latter name is the one used by the learned Fogo Von Slack, in his great
woooof woof wf wof wof woof wf wof wooooof Woof Wof Wooof, wf wof wooof

work on Smells, a text-book on that subject. As its name imports (smeer,
woof wf Woooof, w woof-woof wf woof wooooof. Wf wof woof wooooof (wooof,

fat; berg, to put up), this village was founded in order to afford a
wof; woof, wf wof wf), woof wooooof wof wooooof wf wooof wf woooof w

place for the blubber of the Dutch whale fleet to be tried out, without
wooof wof wof wooooof wf wof Wooof wooof wooof wf wf wooof wof, wooooof

being taken home to Holland for that purpose. It was a collection of
wooof wooof woof wf Wooooof wof woof wooooof. Wf wof w woooooooof wf

furnaces, fat-kettles, and oil sheds; and when the works were in full
woooooof, wof-wooooof, wof wof wooof; wof woof wof wooof woof wf woof

operation certainly gave forth no very pleasant savor. But all this is
wooooooof wooooooof woof wooof wf woof woooooof wooof. Wof wof woof wf

quite different with a South Sea Sperm Whaler; which in a voyage of four
wooof wooooooof woof w Wooof Wof Wooof Woooof; wooof wf w woooof wf woof

years perhaps, after completely filling her hold with oil, does not,
wooof wooooof, wooof woooooooof wooooof wof woof woof wof, woof wof,

perhaps, consume fifty days in the business of boiling out; and in the
wooooof, wooooof wooof woof wf wof woooooof wf wooooof wof; wof wf wof

state that it is casked, the oil is nearly scentless. The truth is, that
wooof woof wf wf woooof, wof wof wf woooof wooooooof. Wof wooof wf, woof

living or dead, if but decently treated, whales as a species are by
woooof wf woof, wf wof woooooof wooooof, woooof wf w wooooof wof wf

no means creatures of ill odor; nor can whalemen be recognised, as the
wf wooof wooooooof wf wof woof; wof wof woooooof wf woooooooof, wf wof

people of the middle ages affected to detect a Jew in the company, by
woooof wf wof woooof woof woooooof wf woooof w Wof wf wof wooooof, wf

the nose. Nor indeed can the whale possibly be otherwise than fragrant,
wof woof. Wof woooof wof wof wooof woooooof wf wooooooof woof woooooof,

when, as a general thing, he enjoys such high health; taking abundance
woof, wf w wooooof wooof, wf woooof woof woof woooof; woooof wooooooof

of exercise; always out of doors; though, it is true, seldom in the
wf woooooof; woooof wof wf wooof; woooof, wf wf woof, woooof wf wof

open air. I say, that the motion of a Sperm Whale's flukes above water
woof wof. W wof, woof wof woooof wf w Wooof Wooof'w woooof wooof wooof

dispenses a perfume, as when a musk-scented lady rustles her dress in a
wooooooof w wooooof, wf woof w woof-wooooof woof wooooof wof wooof wf w

warm parlor. What then shall I liken the Sperm Whale to for fragrance,
woof woooof. Woof woof wooof W wooof wof Wooof Wooof wf wof wooooooof,

considering his magnitude? Must it not be to that famous elephant, with
wooooooooof wof wooooooof? Woof wf wof wf wf woof woooof woooooof, woof

jewelled tusks, and redolent with myrrh, which was led out of an Indian
woooooof wooof, wof woooooof woof wooof, wooof wof wof wof wf wf Woooof

town to do honour to Alexander the Great?
woof wf wf woooof wf Wooooooof wof Wooof?










CHAPTER 93. The Castaway.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Woooooof.







It was but some few days after encountering the Frenchman, that a most
Wf wof wof woof wof woof wooof woooooooooof wof Wooooooof, woof w woof

significant event befell the most insignificant of the Pequod's crew; an
wooooooooof wooof woooof wof woof wooooooooooof wf wof Woooof'w woof; wf

event most lamentable; and which ended in providing the sometimes
wooof woof woooooooof; wof wooof wooof wf wooooooof wof wooooooof

madly merry and predestinated craft with a living and ever accompanying
wooof wooof wof wooooooooooof wooof woof w woooof wof woof woooooooooof

prophecy of whatever shattered sequel might prove her own.
woooooof wf woooooof wooooooof woooof wooof wooof wof wof.




Now, in the whale ship, it is not every one that goes in the boats. Some
Wof, wf wof wooof woof, wf wf wof wooof wof woof woof wf wof wooof. Woof

few hands are reserved called ship-keepers, whose province it is to work
wof wooof wof woooooof woooof woof-wooooof, wooof woooooof wf wf wf woof

the vessel while the boats are pursuing the whale. As a general thing,
wof woooof wooof wof wooof wof woooooof wof wooof. Wf w wooooof wooof,

these ship-keepers are as hardy fellows as the men comprising the boats'
wooof woof-wooooof wof wf wooof wooooof wf wof wof woooooooof wof wooof'

crews. But if there happen to be an unduly slender, clumsy, or timorous
wooof. Wof wf wooof woooof wf wf wf woooof wooooof, woooof, wf woooooof

wight in the ship, that wight is certain to be made a ship-keeper. It
wooof wf wof woof, woof wooof wf wooooof wf wf woof w woof-woooof. Wf

was so in the Pequod with the little negro Pippin by nick-name, Pip by
wof wf wf wof Woooof woof wof woooof wooof Woooof wf woof-woof, Wof wf

abbreviation. Poor Pip! ye have heard of him before; ye must remember
woooooooooof. Woof Wof! wf woof wooof wf wof woooof; wf woof woooooof

his tambourine on that dramatic midnight, so gloomy-jolly.
wof woooooooof wf woof woooooof woooooof, wf woooof-wooof.




In outer aspect, Pip and Dough-Boy made a match, like a black pony and a
Wf wooof woooof, Wof wof Wooof-Wof woof w wooof, woof w wooof woof wof w

white one, of equal developments, though of dissimilar colour, driven in
wooof wof, wf wooof woooooooooof, woooof wf woooooooof woooof, woooof wf

one eccentric span. But while hapless Dough-Boy was by nature dull and
wof wooooooof woof. Wof wooof wooooof Wooof-Wof wof wf woooof woof wof

torpid in his intellects, Pip, though over tender-hearted, was at bottom
woooof wf wof woooooooof, Wof, woooof woof woooof-wooooof, wof wf woooof

very bright, with that pleasant, genial, jolly brightness peculiar to
woof woooof, woof woof woooooof, woooof, wooof woooooooof woooooof wf

his tribe; a tribe, which ever enjoy all holidays and festivities with
wof wooof; w wooof, wooof woof wooof wof woooooof wof wooooooooof woof

finer, freer relish than any other race. For blacks, the year's calendar
wooof, wooof woooof woof wof wooof woof. Wof woooof, wof woof'w woooooof

should show naught but three hundred and sixty-five Fourth of Julys and
woooof woof woooof wof wooof wooooof wof wooof-woof Woooof wf Wooof wof

New Year's Days. Nor smile so, while I write that this little black was
Wof Woof'w Woof. Wof wooof wf, wooof W wooof woof woof woooof wooof wof

brilliant, for even blackness has its brilliancy; behold yon lustrous
wooooooof, wof woof wooooooof wof wof woooooooof; woooof wof woooooof

ebony, panelled in king's cabinets. But Pip loved life, and all life's
wooof, woooooof wf woof'w woooooof. Wof Wof wooof woof, wof wof woof'w

peaceable securities; so that the panic-striking business in which he
wooooooof woooooooof; wf woof wof wooof-woooooof woooooof wf wooof wf

had somehow unaccountably become entrapped, had most sadly blurred his
wof wooooof wooooooooooof woooof wooooooof, wof woof wooof wooooof wof

brightness; though, as ere long will be seen, what was thus temporarily
woooooooof; woooof, wf wof woof woof wf woof, woof wof woof wooooooooof

subdued in him, in the end was destined to be luridly illumined by
wooooof wf wof, wf wof wof wof woooooof wf wf wooooof wooooooof wf

strange wild fires, that fictitiously showed him off to ten times the
wooooof woof wooof, woof woooooooooof woooof wof wof wf wof wooof wof

natural lustre with which in his native Tolland County in Connecticut,
wooooof woooof woof wooof wf wof woooof Wooooof Woooof wf Wooooooooof,

he had once enlivened many a fiddler's frolic on the green; and at
wf wof woof wooooooof woof w wooooof'w woooof wf wof wooof; wof wf

melodious even-tide, with his gay ha-ha! had turned the round horizon
wooooooof woof-woof, woof wof wof wf-wf! wof woooof wof wooof wooooof

into one star-belled tambourine. So, though in the clear air of day,
woof wof woof-woooof woooooooof. Wf, woooof wf wof wooof wof wf wof,

suspended against a blue-veined neck, the pure-watered diamond drop
wooooooof wooooof w woof-woooof woof, wof woof-wooooof wooooof woof

will healthful glow; yet, when the cunning jeweller would show you
woof wooooooof woof; wof, woof wof wooooof woooooof wooof woof wof

the diamond in its most impressive lustre, he lays it against a gloomy
wof wooooof wf wof woof woooooooof woooof, wf woof wf wooooof w woooof

ground, and then lights it up, not by the sun, but by some unnatural
woooof, wof woof woooof wf wf, wof wf wof wof, wof wf woof wooooooof

gases. Then come out those fiery effulgences, infernally superb; then
wooof. Woof woof wof wooof wooof wooooooooof, woooooooof woooof; woof

the evil-blazing diamond, once the divinest symbol of the crystal skies,
wof woof-wooooof wooooof, woof wof woooooof woooof wf wof wooooof wooof,

looks like some crown-jewel stolen from the King of Hell. But let us to
wooof woof woof wooof-wooof woooof woof wof Woof wf Woof. Wof wof wf wf

the story.
wof wooof.




It came to pass, that in the ambergris affair Stubb's after-oarsman
Wf woof wf woof, woof wf wof wooooooof woooof Wooof'w wooof-wooooof

chanced so to sprain his hand, as for a time to become quite maimed;
wooooof wf wf woooof wof woof, wf wof w woof wf woooof wooof woooof;

and, temporarily, Pip was put into his place.
wof, wooooooooof, Wof wof wof woof wof wooof.




The first time Stubb lowered with him, Pip evinced much nervousness;
Wof wooof woof Wooof wooooof woof wof, Wof wooooof woof wooooooooof;

but happily, for that time, escaped close contact with the whale; and
wof wooooof, wof woof woof, wooooof wooof wooooof woof wof wooof; wof

therefore came off not altogether discreditably; though Stubb observing
wooooooof woof wof wof woooooooof wooooooooooof; woooof Wooof wooooooof

him, took care, afterwards, to exhort him to cherish his courageousness
wof, woof woof, woooooooof, wf woooof wof wf wooooof wof woooooooooooof

to the utmost, for he might often find it needful.
wf wof woooof, wof wf wooof wooof woof wf wooooof.




Now upon the second lowering, the boat paddled upon the whale; and as
Wof woof wof woooof woooooof, wof woof wooooof woof wof wooof; wof wf

the fish received the darted iron, it gave its customary rap, which
wof woof woooooof wof woooof woof, wf woof wof wooooooof wof, wooof

happened, in this instance, to be right under poor Pip's seat. The
woooooof, wf woof woooooof, wf wf wooof wooof woof Wof'w woof. Wof

involuntary consternation of the moment caused him to leap, paddle in
wooooooooof wooooooooooof wf wof woooof woooof wof wf woof, woooof wf

hand, out of the boat; and in such a way, that part of the slack whale
woof, wof wf wof woof; wof wf woof w wof, woof woof wf wof wooof wooof

line coming against his chest, he breasted it overboard with him, so as
woof woooof wooooof wof wooof, wf woooooof wf wooooooof woof wof, wf wf

to become entangled in it, when at last plumping into the water. That
wf woooof wooooooof wf wf, woof wf woof woooooof woof wof wooof. Woof

instant the stricken whale started on a fierce run, the line swiftly
wooooof wof woooooof wooof wooooof wf w woooof wof, wof woof wooooof

straightened; and presto! poor Pip came all foaming up to the chocks
woooooooooof; wof woooof! woof Wof woof wof wooooof wf wf wof woooof

of the boat, remorselessly dragged there by the line, which had taken
wf wof woof, wooooooooooof wooooof wooof wf wof woof, wooof wof wooof

several turns around his chest and neck.
wooooof wooof woooof wof wooof wof woof.




Tashtego stood in the bows. He was full of the fire of the hunt. He
Woooooof wooof wf wof woof. Wf wof woof wf wof woof wf wof woof. Wf

hated Pip for a poltroon. Snatching the boat-knife from its sheath,
wooof Wof wof w woooooof. Wooooooof wof woof-wooof woof wof woooof,

he suspended its sharp edge over the line, and turning towards Stubb,
wf wooooooof wof wooof woof woof wof woof, wof wooooof wooooof Wooof,

exclaimed interrogatively, "Cut?" Meantime Pip's blue, choked face
wooooooof wooooooooooooof, "Wof?" Woooooof Wof'w woof, woooof woof

plainly looked, Do, for God's sake! All passed in a flash. In less than
wooooof woooof, Wf, wof Wof'w woof! Wof woooof wf w wooof. Wf woof woof

half a minute, this entire thing happened.
woof w woooof, woof woooof wooof woooooof.




"Damn him, cut!" roared Stubb; and so the whale was lost and Pip was
"Woof wof, wof!" woooof Wooof; wof wf wof wooof wof woof wof Wof wof

saved.
wooof.




So soon as he recovered himself, the poor little negro was assailed
Wf woof wf wf wooooooof wooooof, wof woof woooof wooof wof woooooof

by yells and execrations from the crew. Tranquilly permitting these
wf wooof wof wooooooooof woof wof woof. Woooooooof woooooooof wooof

irregular cursings to evaporate, Stubb then in a plain, business-like,
wooooooof woooooof wf wooooooof, Wooof woof wf w wooof, woooooof-woof,

but still half humorous manner, cursed Pip officially; and that done,
wof wooof woof woooooof woooof, woooof Wof woooooooof; wof woof woof,

unofficially gave him much wholesome advice. The substance was, Never
woooooooooof woof wof woof wooooooof woooof. Wof wooooooof wof, Wooof

jump from a boat, Pip, except--but all the rest was indefinite, as the
woof woof w woof, Wof, woooof--wof wof wof woof wof woooooooof, wf wof

soundest advice ever is. Now, in general, STICK TO THE BOAT, is your
woooooof woooof woof wf. Wof, wf wooooof, WOOOF WF WOF WOOF, wf woof

true motto in whaling; but cases will sometimes happen when LEAP FROM
woof wooof wf wooooof; wof wooof woof wooooooof woooof woof WOOF WOOF

THE BOAT, is still better. Moreover, as if perceiving at last that if he
WOF WOOF, wf wooof woooof. Woooooof, wf wf woooooooof wf woof woof wf wf

should give undiluted conscientious advice to Pip, he would be leaving
woooof woof wooooooof wooooooooooof woooof wf Wof, wf wooof wf wooooof

him too wide a margin to jump in for the future; Stubb suddenly dropped
wof wof woof w woooof wf woof wf wof wof woooof; Wooof woooooof wooooof

all advice, and concluded with a peremptory command, "Stick to the boat,
wof woooof, wof wooooooof woof w woooooooof wooooof, "Wooof wf wof woof,

Pip, or by the Lord, I won't pick you up if you jump; mind that. We
Wof, wf wf wof Woof, W wof'w woof wof wf wf wof woof; woof woof. Wf

can't afford to lose whales by the likes of you; a whale would sell for
wof'w woooof wf woof woooof wf wof wooof wf wof; w wooof wooof woof wof

thirty times what you would, Pip, in Alabama. Bear that in mind, and
woooof wooof woof wof wooof, Wof, wf Wooooof. Woof woof wf woof, wof

don't jump any more." Hereby perhaps Stubb indirectly hinted, that
wof'w woof wof woof." Woooof wooooof Wooof woooooooof woooof, woof

though man loved his fellow, yet man is a money-making animal, which
woooof wof wooof wof woooof, wof wof wf w wooof-woooof woooof, wooof

propensity too often interferes with his benevolence.
woooooooof wof wooof woooooooof woof wof wooooooooof.




But we are all in the hands of the Gods; and Pip jumped again. It was
Wof wf wof wof wf wof wooof wf wof Woof; wof Wof woooof wooof. Wf wof

under very similar circumstances to the first performance; but this time
wooof woof wooooof wooooooooooof wf wof wooof wooooooooof; wof woof woof

he did not breast out the line; and hence, when the whale started to
wf wof wof woooof wof wof woof; wof wooof, woof wof wooof wooooof wf

run, Pip was left behind on the sea, like a hurried traveller's trunk.
wof, Wof wof woof woooof wf wof wof, woof w wooooof wooooooof'w wooof.

Alas! Stubb was but too true to his word. It was a beautiful, bounteous,
Woof! Wooof wof wof wof woof wf wof woof. Wf wof w wooooooof, wooooooof,

blue day; the spangled sea calm and cool, and flatly stretching away,
woof wof; wof woooooof wof woof wof woof, wof woooof woooooooof woof,

all round, to the horizon, like gold-beater's skin hammered out to the
wof wooof, wf wof wooooof, woof woof-woooof'w woof woooooof wof wf wof

extremest. Bobbing up and down in that sea, Pip's ebon head showed
wooooooof. Wooooof wf wof woof wf woof wof, Wof'w woof woof woooof

like a head of cloves. No boat-knife was lifted when he fell so rapidly
woof w woof wf woooof. Wf woof-wooof wof woooof woof wf woof wf wooooof

astern. Stubb's inexorable back was turned upon him; and the whale was
woooof. Wooof'w woooooooof woof wof woooof woof wof; wof wof wooof wof

winged. In three minutes, a whole mile of shoreless ocean was between
woooof. Wf wooof wooooof, w wooof woof wf wooooooof wooof wof wooooof

Pip and Stubb. Out from the centre of the sea, poor Pip turned his
Wof wof Wooof. Wof woof wof woooof wf wof wof, woof Wof woooof wof

crisp, curling, black head to the sun, another lonely castaway, though
wooof, wooooof, wooof woof wf wof wof, wooooof woooof woooooof, woooof

the loftiest and the brightest.
wof woooooof wof wof wooooooof.




Now, in calm weather, to swim in the open ocean is as easy to the
Wof, wf woof wooooof, wf woof wf wof woof wooof wf wf woof wf wof

practised swimmer as to ride in a spring-carriage ashore. But the awful
wooooooof wooooof wf wf woof wf w woooof-woooooof woooof. Wof wof wooof

lonesomeness is intolerable. The intense concentration of self in the
woooooooooof wf wooooooooof. Wof wooooof wooooooooooof wf woof wf wof

middle of such a heartless immensity, my God! who can tell it? Mark, how
woooof wf woof w wooooooof wooooooof, wf Wof! wof wof woof wf? Woof, wof

when sailors in a dead calm bathe in the open sea--mark how closely they
woof wooooof wf w woof woof wooof wf wof woof wof--woof wof wooooof woof

hug their ship and only coast along her sides.
wof wooof woof wof woof wooof wooof wof wooof.




But had Stubb really abandoned the poor little negro to his fate? No; he
Wof wof Wooof woooof wooooooof wof woof woooof wooof wf wof woof? Wf; wf

did not mean to, at least. Because there were two boats in his wake,
wof wof woof wf, wf wooof. Wooooof wooof woof wof wooof wf wof woof,

and he supposed, no doubt, that they would of course come up to Pip very
wof wf woooooof, wf wooof, woof woof wooof wf woooof woof wf wf Wof woof

quickly, and pick him up; though, indeed, such considerations towards
wooooof, wof woof wof wf; woooof, woooof, woof woooooooooooof wooooof

oarsmen jeopardized through their own timidity, is not always manifested
wooooof wooooooooof wooooof wooof wof woooooof, wf wof woooof woooooooof

by the hunters in all similar instances; and such instances not
wf wof wooooof wf wof wooooof wooooooof; wof woof wooooooof wof

unfrequently occur; almost invariably in the fishery, a coward, so
woooooooooof wooof; woooof woooooooof wf wof wooooof, w woooof, wf

called, is marked with the same ruthless detestation peculiar to
woooof, wf woooof woof wof woof woooooof wooooooooof woooooof wf

military navies and armies.
woooooof woooof wof woooof.




But it so happened, that those boats, without seeing Pip, suddenly
Wof wf wf woooooof, woof wooof wooof, wooooof woooof Wof, woooooof

spying whales close to them on one side, turned, and gave chase; and
woooof woooof wooof wf woof wf wof woof, woooof, wof woof wooof; wof

Stubb's boat was now so far away, and he and all his crew so intent
Wooof'w woof wof wof wf wof woof, wof wf wof wof wof woof wf woooof

upon his fish, that Pip's ringed horizon began to expand around him
woof wof woof, woof Wof'w woooof wooooof wooof wf woooof woooof wof

miserably. By the merest chance the ship itself at last rescued him; but
wooooooof. Wf wof woooof woooof wof woof woooof wf woof wooooof wof; wof

from that hour the little negro went about the deck an idiot; such, at
woof woof woof wof woooof wooof woof wooof wof woof wf wooof; woof, wf

least, they said he was. The sea had jeeringly kept his finite body
wooof, woof woof wf wof. Wof wof wof wooooooof woof wof woooof woof

up, but drowned the infinite of his soul. Not drowned entirely, though.
wf, wof wooooof wof woooooof wf wof woof. Wof wooooof woooooof, woooof.

Rather carried down alive to wondrous depths, where strange shapes of
Woooof wooooof woof wooof wf woooooof woooof, wooof wooooof woooof wf

the unwarped primal world glided to and fro before his passive eyes;
wof woooooof woooof wooof woooof wf wof wof woooof wof wooooof woof;

and the miser-merman, Wisdom, revealed his hoarded heaps; and among the
wof wof wooof-woooof, Woooof, woooooof wof wooooof wooof; wof wooof wof

joyous, heartless, ever-juvenile eternities, Pip saw the multitudinous,
woooof, wooooooof, woof-woooooof woooooooof, Wof wof wof wooooooooooof,

God-omnipresent, coral insects, that out of the firmament of waters
Wof-wooooooooof, wooof wooooof, woof wof wf wof wooooooof wf woooof

heaved the colossal orbs. He saw God's foot upon the treadle of the
woooof wof woooooof woof. Wf wof Wof'w woof woof wof wooooof wf wof

loom, and spoke it; and therefore his shipmates called him mad. So man's
woof, wof wooof wf; wof wooooooof wof wooooooof woooof wof wof. Wf wof'w

insanity is heaven's sense; and wandering from all mortal reason, man
woooooof wf woooof'w wooof; wof wooooooof woof wof woooof woooof, wof

comes at last to that celestial thought, which, to reason, is absurd and
wooof wf woof wf woof wooooooof wooooof, wooof, wf woooof, wf woooof wof

frantic; and weal or woe, feels then uncompromised, indifferent as his
wooooof; wof woof wf wof, wooof woof wooooooooooof, wooooooooof wf wof

God.
Wof.




For the rest, blame not Stubb too hardly. The thing is common in that
Wof wof woof, wooof wof Wooof wof woooof. Wof wooof wf woooof wf woof

fishery; and in the sequel of the narrative, it will then be seen what
wooooof; wof wf wof woooof wf wof wooooooof, wf woof woof wf woof woof

like abandonment befell myself.
woof wooooooooof woooof woooof.










CHAPTER 94. A Squeeze of the Hand.
WOOOOOF wf. W Wooooof wf wof Woof.







That whale of Stubb's, so dearly purchased, was duly brought to
Woof wooof wf Wooof'w, wf woooof wooooooof, wof woof wooooof wf

the Pequod's side, where all those cutting and hoisting operations
wof Woooof'w woof, wooof wof wooof wooooof wof woooooof woooooooof

previously detailed, were regularly gone through, even to the baling of
woooooooof woooooof, woof wooooooof woof wooooof, woof wf wof woooof wf

the Heidelburgh Tun, or Case.
wof Wooooooooof Wof, wf Woof.




While some were occupied with this latter duty, others were employed
Wooof woof woof woooooof woof woof woooof woof, woooof woof woooooof

in dragging away the larger tubs, so soon as filled with the sperm; and
wf woooooof woof wof woooof woof, wf woof wf woooof woof wof wooof; wof

when the proper time arrived, this same sperm was carefully manipulated
woof wof woooof woof wooooof, woof woof wooof wof wooooooof wooooooooof

ere going to the try-works, of which anon.
wof wooof wf wof wof-wooof, wf wooof woof.




It had cooled and crystallized to such a degree, that when, with several
Wf wof woooof wof woooooooooof wf woof w woooof, woof woof, woof wooooof

others, I sat down before a large Constantine's bath of it, I found
woooof, W wof woof woooof w wooof Wooooooooof'w woof wf wf, W wooof

it strangely concreted into lumps, here and there rolling about in the
wf wooooooof wooooooof woof wooof, woof wof wooof wooooof wooof wf wof

liquid part. It was our business to squeeze these lumps back into fluid.
woooof woof. Wf wof wof woooooof wf wooooof wooof wooof woof woof wooof.

A sweet and unctuous duty! No wonder that in old times this sperm was
W wooof wof woooooof woof! Wf woooof woof wf wof wooof woof wooof wof

such a favourite cosmetic. Such a clearer! such a sweetener! such a
woof w wooooooof woooooof. Woof w wooooof! woof w wooooooof! woof w

softener! such a delicious molifier! After having my hands in it for
woooooof! woof w wooooooof woooooof! Wooof woooof wf wooof wf wf wof

only a few minutes, my fingers felt like eels, and began, as it were, to
woof w wof wooooof, wf wooooof woof woof woof, wof wooof, wf wf woof, wf

serpentine and spiralise.
woooooooof wof wooooooof.




As I sat there at my ease, cross-legged on the deck; after the bitter
Wf W wof wooof wf wf woof, wooof-woooof wf wof woof; wooof wof woooof

exertion at the windlass; under a blue tranquil sky; the ship under
woooooof wf wof woooooof; wooof w woof woooooof wof; wof woof wooof

indolent sail, and gliding so serenely along; as I bathed my hands among
woooooof woof, wof wooooof wf woooooof wooof; wf W woooof wf wooof wooof

those soft, gentle globules of infiltrated tissues, woven almost within
wooof woof, woooof woooooof wf wooooooooof wooooof, wooof woooof woooof

the hour; as they richly broke to my fingers, and discharged all their
wof woof; wf woof woooof wooof wf wf wooooof, wof woooooooof wof wooof

opulence, like fully ripe grapes their wine; as I snuffed up that
woooooof, woof wooof woof woooof wooof woof; wf W wooooof wf woof

uncontaminated aroma,--literally and truly, like the smell of spring
woooooooooooof wooof,--wooooooof wof wooof, woof wof wooof wf woooof

violets; I declare to you, that for the time I lived as in a musky
wooooof; W wooooof wf wof, woof wof wof woof W wooof wf wf w wooof

meadow; I forgot all about our horrible oath; in that inexpressible
woooof; W woooof wof wooof wof woooooof woof; wf woof wooooooooooof

sperm, I washed my hands and my heart of it; I almost began to credit
wooof, W woooof wf wooof wof wf wooof wf wf; W woooof wooof wf woooof

the old Paracelsan superstition that sperm is of rare virtue in allaying
wof wof Woooooooof woooooooooof woof wooof wf wf woof woooof wf woooooof

the heat of anger; while bathing in that bath, I felt divinely free from
wof woof wf wooof; wooof wooooof wf woof woof, W woof woooooof woof woof

all ill-will, or petulance, or malice, of any sort whatsoever.
wof wof-woof, wf wooooooof, wf woooof, wf wof woof woooooooof.




Squeeze! squeeze! squeeze! all the morning long; I squeezed that sperm
Wooooof! wooooof! wooooof! wof wof wooooof woof; W woooooof woof wooof

till I myself almost melted into it; I squeezed that sperm till a
woof W woooof woooof woooof woof wf; W woooooof woof wooof woof w

strange sort of insanity came over me; and I found myself unwittingly
wooooof woof wf woooooof woof woof wf; wof W wooof woooof wooooooooof

squeezing my co-laborers' hands in it, mistaking their hands for the
wooooooof wf wf-woooooof' wooof wf wf, wooooooof wooof wooof wof wof

gentle globules. Such an abounding, affectionate, friendly, loving
woooof woooooof. Woof wf wooooooof, woooooooooof, woooooof, woooof

feeling did this avocation beget; that at last I was continually
wooooof wof woof wooooooof wooof; woof wf woof W wof wooooooooof

squeezing their hands, and looking up into their eyes sentimentally; as
wooooooof wooof wooof, wof wooooof wf woof wooof woof wooooooooooof; wf

much as to say,--Oh! my dear fellow beings, why should we longer cherish
woof wf wf wof,--Wf! wf woof woooof woooof, wof woooof wf woooof wooooof

any social acerbities, or know the slightest ill-humor or envy! Come;
wof woooof woooooooof, wf woof wof wooooooof wof-wooof wf woof! Woof;

let us squeeze hands all round; nay, let us all squeeze ourselves into
wof wf wooooof wooof wof wooof; wof, wof wf wof wooooof wooooooof woof

each other; let us squeeze ourselves universally into the very milk and
woof wooof; wof wf wooooof wooooooof wooooooooof woof wof woof woof wof

sperm of kindness.
wooof wf woooooof.




Would that I could keep squeezing that sperm for ever! For now, since by
Wooof woof W wooof woof wooooooof woof wooof wof woof! Wof wof, wooof wf

many prolonged, repeated experiences, I have perceived that in all cases
woof wooooooof, woooooof wooooooooof, W woof wooooooof woof wf wof wooof

man must eventually lower, or at least shift, his conceit of attainable
wof woof woooooooof wooof, wf wf wooof wooof, wof wooooof wf woooooooof

felicity; not placing it anywhere in the intellect or the fancy; but in
woooooof; wof wooooof wf woooooof wf wof wooooooof wf wof wooof; wof wf

the wife, the heart, the bed, the table, the saddle, the fireside, the
wof woof, wof wooof, wof wof, wof wooof, wof woooof, wof woooooof, wof

country; now that I have perceived all this, I am ready to squeeze case
wooooof; wof woof W woof wooooooof wof woof, W wf wooof wf wooooof woof

eternally. In thoughts of the visions of the night, I saw long rows of
wooooooof. Wf woooooof wf wof wooooof wf wof wooof, W wof woof woof wf

angels in paradise, each with his hands in a jar of spermaceti.
woooof wf woooooof, woof woof wof wooof wf w wof wf woooooooof.




Now, while discoursing of sperm, it behooves to speak of other things
Wof, wooof wooooooooof wf wooof, wf woooooof wf wooof wf wooof woooof

akin to it, in the business of preparing the sperm whale for the
woof wf wf, wf wof woooooof wf wooooooof wof wooof wooof wof wof

try-works.
wof-wooof.




First comes white-horse, so called, which is obtained from the tapering
Wooof wooof wooof-wooof, wf woooof, wooof wf woooooof woof wof woooooof

part of the fish, and also from the thicker portions of his flukes. It
woof wf wof woof, wof woof woof wof wooooof woooooof wf wof woooof. Wf

is tough with congealed tendons--a wad of muscle--but still contains
wf wooof woof wooooooof wooooof--w wof wf woooof--wof wooof woooooof

some oil. After being severed from the whale, the white-horse is first
woof wof. Wooof wooof wooooof woof wof wooof, wof wooof-wooof wf wooof

cut into portable oblongs ere going to the mincer. They look much like
wof woof woooooof wooooof wof wooof wf wof woooof. Woof woof woof woof

blocks of Berkshire marble.
woooof wf Wooooooof woooof.




Plum-pudding is the term bestowed upon certain fragmentary parts of the
Woof-wooooof wf wof woof woooooof woof wooooof wooooooooof wooof wf wof

whale's flesh, here and there adhering to the blanket of blubber, and
wooof'w wooof, woof wof wooof woooooof wf wof wooooof wf wooooof, wof

often participating to a considerable degree in its unctuousness. It is
wooof wooooooooooof wf w woooooooooof woooof wf wof woooooooooof. Wf wf

a most refreshing, convivial, beautiful object to behold. As its name
w woof woooooooof, wooooooof, wooooooof woooof wf woooof. Wf wof woof

imports, it is of an exceedingly rich, mottled tint, with a bestreaked
wooooof, wf wf wf wf wooooooooof woof, wooooof woof, woof w woooooooof

snowy and golden ground, dotted with spots of the deepest crimson and
wooof wof woooof woooof, woooof woof wooof wf wof wooooof wooooof wof

purple. It is plums of rubies, in pictures of citron. Spite of reason,
woooof. Wf wf wooof wf woooof, wf woooooof wf woooof. Wooof wf woooof,

it is hard to keep yourself from eating it. I confess, that once I stole
wf wf woof wf woof woooooof woof woooof wf. W wooooof, woof woof W wooof

behind the foremast to try it. It tasted something as I should conceive
woooof wof woooooof wf wof wf. Wf woooof wooooooof wf W woooof woooooof

a royal cutlet from the thigh of Louis le Gros might have tasted,
w wooof woooof woof wof wooof wf Wooof wf Woof wooof woof woooof,

supposing him to have been killed the first day after the venison
wooooooof wof wf woof woof woooof wof wooof wof wooof wof wooooof

season, and that particular venison season contemporary with an
woooof, wof woof woooooooof wooooof woooof woooooooooof woof wf

unusually fine vintage of the vineyards of Champagne.
wooooooof woof wooooof wf wof wooooooof wf Wooooooof.




There is another substance, and a very singular one, which turns up in
Wooof wf wooooof wooooooof, wof w woof woooooof wof, wooof wooof wf wf

the course of this business, but which I feel it to be very puzzling
wof woooof wf woof woooooof, wof wooof W woof wf wf wf woof woooooof

adequately to describe. It is called slobgollion; an appellation
woooooooof wf woooooof. Wf wf woooof wooooooooof; wf wooooooooof

original with the whalemen, and even so is the nature of the substance.
woooooof woof wof woooooof, wof woof wf wf wof woooof wf wof wooooooof.

It is an ineffably oozy, stringy affair, most frequently found in the
Wf wf wf wooooooof woof, wooooof woooof, woof woooooooof wooof wf wof

tubs of sperm, after a prolonged squeezing, and subsequent decanting.
woof wf wooof, wooof w wooooooof wooooooof, wof woooooooof wooooooof.

I hold it to be the wondrously thin, ruptured membranes of the case,
W woof wf wf wf wof woooooooof woof, woooooof wooooooof wf wof woof,

coalescing.
woooooooof.




Gurry, so called, is a term properly belonging to right whalemen, but
Wooof, wf woooof, wf w woof woooooof wooooooof wf wooof woooooof, wof

sometimes incidentally used by the sperm fishermen. It designates the
wooooooof woooooooooof woof wf wof wooof wooooooof. Wf woooooooof wof

dark, glutinous substance which is scraped off the back of the Greenland
woof, wooooooof wooooooof wooof wf wooooof wof wof woof wf wof Wooooooof

or right whale, and much of which covers the decks of those inferior
wf wooof wooof, wof woof wf wooof woooof wof wooof wf wooof woooooof

souls who hunt that ignoble Leviathan.
wooof wof woof woof wooooof Wooooooof.




Nippers. Strictly this word is not indigenous to the whale's vocabulary.
Wooooof. Woooooof woof woof wf wof woooooooof wf wof wooof'w woooooooof.

But as applied by whalemen, it becomes so. A whaleman's nipper is
Wof wf wooooof wf woooooof, wf wooooof wf. W woooooof'w woooof wf

a short firm strip of tendinous stuff cut from the tapering part of
w wooof woof wooof wf wooooooof wooof wof woof wof woooooof woof wf

Leviathan's tail: it averages an inch in thickness, and for the rest, is
Wooooooof'w woof: wf woooooof wf woof wf wooooooof, wof wof wof woof, wf

about the size of the iron part of a hoe. Edgewise moved along the
wooof wof woof wf wof woof woof wf w wof. Woooooof wooof wooof wof

oily deck, it operates like a leathern squilgee; and by nameless
woof woof, wf woooooof woof w woooooof woooooof; wof wf woooooof

blandishments, as of magic, allures along with it all impurities.
wooooooooooof, wf wf wooof, wooooof wooof woof wf wof woooooooof.




But to learn all about these recondite matters, your best way is at once
Wof wf wooof wof wooof wooof wooooooof wooooof, woof woof wof wf wf woof

to descend into the blubber-room, and have a long talk with its inmates.
wf wooooof woof wof wooooof-woof, wof woof w woof woof woof wof wooooof.

This place has previously been mentioned as the receptacle for the
Woof wooof wof woooooooof woof wooooooof wf wof woooooooof wof wof

blanket-pieces, when stript and hoisted from the whale. When the proper
wooooof-woooof, woof woooof wof wooooof woof wof wooof. Woof wof woooof

time arrives for cutting up its contents, this apartment is a scene of
woof wooooof wof wooooof wf wof woooooof, woof wooooooof wf w wooof wf

terror to all tyros, especially by night. On one side, lit by a dull
woooof wf wof wooof, woooooooof wf wooof. Wf wof woof, wof wf w woof

lantern, a space has been left clear for the workmen. They generally
wooooof, w wooof wof woof woof wooof wof wof wooooof. Woof wooooooof

go in pairs,--a pike-and-gaffman and a spade-man. The whaling-pike is
wf wf wooof,--w woof-wof-wooooof wof w wooof-wof. Wof wooooof-woof wf

similar to a frigate's boarding-weapon of the same name. The gaff is
wooooof wf w wooooof'w woooooof-woooof wf wof woof woof. Wof woof wf

something like a boat-hook. With his gaff, the gaffman hooks on to a
wooooooof woof w woof-woof. Woof wof woof, wof wooooof wooof wf wf w

sheet of blubber, and strives to hold it from slipping, as the ship
wooof wf wooooof, wof wooooof wf woof wf woof woooooof, wf wof woof

pitches and lurches about. Meanwhile, the spade-man stands on the sheet
wooooof wof wooooof wooof. Wooooooof, wof wooof-wof woooof wf wof wooof

itself, perpendicularly chopping it into the portable horse-pieces. This
woooof, wooooooooooooof woooooof wf woof wof woooooof wooof-woooof. Woof

spade is sharp as hone can make it; the spademan's feet are shoeless;
wooof wf wooof wf woof wof woof wf; wof woooooof'w woof wof woooooof;

the thing he stands on will sometimes irresistibly slide away from
wof wooof wf woooof wf woof wooooooof woooooooooof wooof woof woof

him, like a sledge. If he cuts off one of his own toes, or one of his
wof, woof w woooof. Wf wf woof wof wof wf wof wof woof, wf wof wf wof

assistants', would you be very much astonished? Toes are scarce among
woooooooof', wooof wof wf woof woof woooooooof? Woof wof woooof wooof

veteran blubber-room men.
wooooof wooooof-woof wof.










CHAPTER 95. The Cassock.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Wooooof.







Had you stepped on board the Pequod at a certain juncture of this
Wof wof wooooof wf wooof wof Woooof wf w wooooof woooooof wf woof

post-mortemizing of the whale; and had you strolled forward nigh the
woof-wooooooooof wf wof wooof; wof wof wof woooooof wooooof woof wof

windlass, pretty sure am I that you would have scanned with no small
woooooof, woooof woof wf W woof wof wooof woof wooooof woof wf wooof

curiosity a very strange, enigmatical object, which you would have seen
wooooooof w woof wooooof, wooooooooof woooof, wooof wof wooof woof woof

there, lying along lengthwise in the lee scuppers. Not the wondrous
wooof, wooof wooof woooooooof wf wof wof woooooof. Wof wof woooooof

cistern in the whale's huge head; not the prodigy of his unhinged lower
wooooof wf wof wooof'w woof woof; wof wof wooooof wf wof woooooof wooof

jaw; not the miracle of his symmetrical tail; none of these would so
wof; wof wof wooooof wf wof wooooooooof woof; woof wf wooof wooof wf

surprise you, as half a glimpse of that unaccountable cone,--longer than
woooooof wof, wf woof w wooooof wf woof wooooooooooof woof,--woooof woof

a Kentuckian is tall, nigh a foot in diameter at the base, and jet-black
w Woooooooof wf woof, woof w woof wf woooooof wf wof woof, wof wof-wooof

as Yojo, the ebony idol of Queequeg. And an idol, indeed, it is; or,
wf Woof, wof wooof woof wf Woooooof. Wof wf woof, woooof, wf wf; wf,

rather, in old times, its likeness was. Such an idol as that found in
woooof, wf wof wooof, wof woooooof wof. Woof wf woof wf woof wooof wf

the secret groves of Queen Maachah in Judea; and for worshipping which,
wof woooof woooof wf Wooof Wooooof wf Wooof; wof wof wooooooooof wooof,

King Asa, her son, did depose her, and destroyed the idol, and burnt it
Woof Wof, wof wof, wof woooof wof, wof wooooooof wof woof, wof wooof wf

for an abomination at the brook Kedron, as darkly set forth in the 15th
wof wf wooooooooof wf wof wooof Woooof, wf woooof wof wooof wf wof woof

chapter of the First Book of Kings.
wooooof wf wof Wooof Woof wf Wooof.




Look at the sailor, called the mincer, who now comes along, and assisted
Woof wf wof woooof, woooof wof woooof, wof wof wooof wooof, wof woooooof

by two allies, heavily backs the grandissimus, as the mariners call it,
wf wof woooof, wooooof wooof wof woooooooooof, wf wof woooooof woof wf,

and with bowed shoulders, staggers off with it as if he were a grenadier
wof woof wooof wooooooof, woooooof wof woof wf wf wf wf woof w wooooooof

carrying a dead comrade from the field. Extending it upon the forecastle
woooooof w woof wooooof woof wof wooof. Wooooooof wf woof wof woooooooof

deck, he now proceeds cylindrically to remove its dark pelt, as an
woof, wf wof woooooof wooooooooooof wf woooof wof woof woof, wf wf

African hunter the pelt of a boa. This done he turns the pelt inside
Wooooof woooof wof woof wf w wof. Woof woof wf wooof wof woof woooof

out, like a pantaloon leg; gives it a good stretching, so as almost to
wof, woof w wooooooof wof; wooof wf w woof woooooooof, wf wf woooof wf

double its diameter; and at last hangs it, well spread, in the rigging,
woooof wof woooooof; wof wf woof wooof wf, woof woooof, wf wof wooooof,

to dry. Ere long, it is taken down; when removing some three feet of it,
wf wof. Wof woof, wf wf wooof woof; woof woooooof woof wooof woof wf wf,

towards the pointed extremity, and then cutting two slits for arm-holes
wooooof wof wooooof wooooooof, wof woof wooooof wof wooof wof wof-wooof

at the other end, he lengthwise slips himself bodily into it. The mincer
wf wof wooof wof, wf woooooooof wooof wooooof woooof woof wf. Wof woooof

now stands before you invested in the full canonicals of his calling.
wof woooof woooof wof woooooof wf wof woof woooooooof wf wof wooooof.

Immemorial to all his order, this investiture alone will adequately
Woooooooof wf wof wof wooof, woof wooooooooof wooof woof woooooooof

protect him, while employed in the peculiar functions of his office.
wooooof wof, wooof woooooof wf wof woooooof wooooooof wf wof woooof.




That office consists in mincing the horse-pieces of blubber for the
Woof woooof woooooof wf wooooof wof wooof-woooof wf wooooof wof wof

pots; an operation which is conducted at a curious wooden horse, planted
woof; wf wooooooof wooof wf wooooooof wf w wooooof woooof wooof, wooooof

endwise against the bulwarks, and with a capacious tub beneath it, into
wooooof wooooof wof woooooof, wof woof w wooooooof wof wooooof wf, woof

which the minced pieces drop, fast as the sheets from a rapt orator's
wooof wof woooof woooof woof, woof wf wof woooof woof w woof woooof'w

desk. Arrayed in decent black; occupying a conspicuous pulpit; intent
woof. Wooooof wf woooof wooof; wooooooof w wooooooooof woooof; woooof

on bible leaves; what a candidate for an archbishopric, what a lad for a
wf wooof woooof; woof w wooooooof wof wf wooooooooooof, woof w wof wof w

Pope were this mincer!*
Woof woof woof woooof!*







*Bible leaves! Bible leaves! This is the invariable cry from the mates
*Wooof woooof! Wooof woooof! Woof wf wof woooooooof wof woof wof wooof

to the mincer. It enjoins him to be careful, and cut his work into as
wf wof woooof. Wf wooooof wof wf wf wooooof, wof wof wof woof woof wf

thin slices as possible, inasmuch as by so doing the business of
woof woooof wf woooooof, woooooof wf wf wf wooof wof woooooof wf

boiling out the oil is much accelerated, and its quantity considerably
wooooof wof wof wof wf woof wooooooooof, wof wof woooooof woooooooooof

increased, besides perhaps improving it in quality.
wooooooof, wooooof wooooof wooooooof wf wf wooooof.










CHAPTER 96. The Try-Works.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Wof-Wooof.







Besides her hoisted boats, an American whaler is outwardly distinguished
Wooooof wof wooooof wooof, wf Woooooof woooof wf wooooooof wooooooooooof

by her try-works. She presents the curious anomaly of the most solid
wf wof wof-wooof. Wof woooooof wof wooooof wooooof wf wof woof wooof

masonry joining with oak and hemp in constituting the completed ship.
wooooof wooooof woof wof wof woof wf woooooooooof wof wooooooof woof.

It is as if from the open field a brick-kiln were transported to her
Wf wf wf wf woof wof woof wooof w wooof-woof woof wooooooooof wf wof

planks.
woooof.




The try-works are planted between the foremast and mainmast, the most
Wof wof-wooof wof wooooof wooooof wof woooooof wof woooooof, wof woof

roomy part of the deck. The timbers beneath are of a peculiar strength,
wooof woof wf wof woof. Wof wooooof wooooof wof wf w woooooof woooooof,

fitted to sustain the weight of an almost solid mass of brick and
woooof wf wooooof wof woooof wf wf woooof wooof woof wf wooof wof

mortar, some ten feet by eight square, and five in height. The
woooof, woof wof woof wf wooof woooof, wof woof wf woooof. Wof

foundation does not penetrate the deck, but the masonry is firmly
woooooooof woof wof wooooooof wof woof, wof wof wooooof wf woooof

secured to the surface by ponderous knees of iron bracing it on all
wooooof wf wof wooooof wf wooooooof wooof wf woof wooooof wf wf wof

sides, and screwing it down to the timbers. On the flanks it is cased
wooof, wof woooooof wf woof wf wof wooooof. Wf wof woooof wf wf wooof

with wood, and at top completely covered by a large, sloping, battened
woof woof, wof wf wof woooooooof wooooof wf w wooof, wooooof, woooooof

hatchway. Removing this hatch we expose the great try-pots, two in
woooooof. Woooooof woof wooof wf woooof wof wooof wof-woof, wof wf

number, and each of several barrels' capacity. When not in use, they are
woooof, wof woof wf wooooof wooooof' woooooof. Woof wof wf wof, woof wof

kept remarkably clean. Sometimes they are polished with soapstone
woof woooooooof wooof. Wooooooof woof wof woooooof woof wooooooof

and sand, till they shine within like silver punch-bowls. During the
wof woof, woof woof wooof woooof woof woooof wooof-wooof. Woooof wof

night-watches some cynical old sailors will crawl into them and coil
wooof-wooooof woof wooooof wof wooooof woof wooof woof woof wof woof

themselves away there for a nap. While employed in polishing them--one
woooooooof woof wooof wof w wof. Wooof woooooof wf wooooooof woof--wof

man in each pot, side by side--many confidential communications
wof wf woof wof, woof wf woof--woof woooooooooof woooooooooooof

are carried on, over the iron lips. It is a place also for profound
wof wooooof wf, woof wof woof woof. Wf wf w wooof woof wof woooooof

mathematical meditation. It was in the left hand try-pot of the Pequod,
woooooooooof woooooooof. Wf wof wf wof woof woof wof-wof wf wof Woooof,

with the soapstone diligently circling round me, that I was first
woof wof wooooooof woooooooof woooooof wooof wf, woof W wof wooof

indirectly struck by the remarkable fact, that in geometry all bodies
woooooooof woooof wf wof woooooooof woof, woof wf woooooof wof woooof

gliding along the cycloid, my soapstone for example, will descend from
wooooof wooof wof wooooof, wf wooooooof wof wooooof, woof wooooof woof

any point in precisely the same time.
wof wooof wf wooooooof wof woof woof.




Removing the fire-board from the front of the try-works, the bare
Woooooof wof woof-wooof woof wof wooof wf wof wof-wooof, wof woof

masonry of that side is exposed, penetrated by the two iron mouths of
wooooof wf woof woof wf wooooof, woooooooof wf wof wof woof woooof wf

the furnaces, directly underneath the pots. These mouths are fitted
wof woooooof, woooooof woooooooof wof woof. Wooof woooof wof woooof

with heavy doors of iron. The intense heat of the fire is prevented
woof wooof wooof wf woof. Wof wooooof woof wf wof woof wf wooooooof

from communicating itself to the deck, by means of a shallow reservoir
woof wooooooooooof woooof wf wof woof, wf wooof wf w wooooof wooooooof

extending under the entire inclosed surface of the works. By a tunnel
wooooooof wooof wof woooof woooooof wooooof wf wof wooof. Wf w woooof

inserted at the rear, this reservoir is kept replenished with water as
woooooof wf wof woof, woof wooooooof wf woof wooooooooof woof wooof wf

fast as it evaporates. There are no external chimneys; they open direct
woof wf wf woooooooof. Wooof wof wf woooooof woooooof; woof woof woooof

from the rear wall. And here let us go back for a moment.
woof wof woof woof. Wof woof wof wf wf woof wof w woooof.




It was about nine o'clock at night that the Pequod's try-works were
Wf wof wooof woof w'wooof wf wooof woof wof Woooof'w wof-wooof woof

first started on this present voyage. It belonged to Stubb to oversee
wooof wooooof wf woof wooooof woooof. Wf woooooof wf Wooof wf wooooof

the business.
wof woooooof.




"All ready there? Off hatch, then, and start her. You cook, fire the
"Wof wooof wooof? Wof wooof, woof, wof wooof wof. Wof woof, woof wof

works." This was an easy thing, for the carpenter had been thrusting his
wooof." Woof wof wf woof wooof, wof wof wooooooof wof woof wooooooof wof

shavings into the furnace throughout the passage. Here be it said that
woooooof woof wof wooooof woooooooof wof wooooof. Woof wf wf woof woof

in a whaling voyage the first fire in the try-works has to be fed for a
wf w wooooof woooof wof wooof woof wf wof wof-wooof wof wf wf wof wof w

time with wood. After that no wood is used, except as a means of quick
woof woof woof. Wooof woof wf woof wf woof, woooof wf w wooof wf wooof

ignition to the staple fuel. In a word, after being tried out, the
woooooof wf wof woooof woof. Wf w woof, wooof wooof wooof wof, wof

crisp, shrivelled blubber, now called scraps or fritters, still contains
wooof, woooooooof wooooof, wof woooof woooof wf woooooof, wooof woooooof

considerable of its unctuous properties. These fritters feed the flames.
woooooooooof wf wof woooooof woooooooof. Wooof woooooof woof wof woooof.

Like a plethoric burning martyr, or a self-consuming misanthrope, once
Woof w wooooooof wooooof woooof, wf w woof-wooooooof wooooooooof, woof

ignited, the whale supplies his own fuel and burns by his own body.
wooooof, wof wooof woooooof wof wof woof wof wooof wf wof wof woof.

Would that he consumed his own smoke! for his smoke is horrible to
Wooof woof wf woooooof wof wof wooof! wof wof wooof wf woooooof wf

inhale, and inhale it you must, and not only that, but you must live in
woooof, wof woooof wf wof woof, wof wof woof woof, wof wof woof woof wf

it for the time. It has an unspeakable, wild, Hindoo odor about it, such
wf wof wof woof. Wf wof wf wooooooooof, woof, Woooof woof wooof wf, woof

as may lurk in the vicinity of funereal pyres. It smells like the left
wf wof woof wf wof woooooof wf woooooof wooof. Wf woooof woof wof woof

wing of the day of judgment; it is an argument for the pit.
woof wf wof wof wf woooooof; wf wf wf woooooof wof wof wof.




By midnight the works were in full operation. We were clear from the
Wf woooooof wof wooof woof wf woof wooooooof. Wf woof wooof woof wof

carcase; sail had been made; the wind was freshening; the wild ocean
wooooof; woof wof woof woof; wof woof wof woooooooof; wof woof wooof

darkness was intense. But that darkness was licked up by the fierce
woooooof wof wooooof. Wof woof woooooof wof woooof wf wf wof woooof

flames, which at intervals forked forth from the sooty flues, and
woooof, wooof wf wooooooof woooof wooof woof wof wooof wooof, wof

illuminated every lofty rope in the rigging, as with the famed Greek
wooooooooof wooof wooof woof wf wof wooooof, wf woof wof wooof Wooof

fire. The burning ship drove on, as if remorselessly commissioned to
woof. Wof wooooof woof wooof wf, wf wf wooooooooooof woooooooooof wf

some vengeful deed. So the pitch and sulphur-freighted brigs of the
woof woooooof woof. Wf wof wooof wof wooooof-wooooooof wooof wf wof

bold Hydriote, Canaris, issuing from their midnight harbors, with broad
woof Woooooof, Wooooof, wooooof woof wooof woooooof wooooof, woof wooof

sheets of flame for sails, bore down upon the Turkish frigates, and
woooof wf wooof wof wooof, woof woof woof wof Wooooof woooooof, wof

folded them in conflagrations.
woooof woof wf woooooooooooof.




The hatch, removed from the top of the works, now afforded a wide hearth
Wof wooof, wooooof woof wof wof wf wof wooof, wof woooooof w woof woooof

in front of them. Standing on this were the Tartarean shapes of the
wf wooof wf woof. Woooooof wf woof woof wof Wooooooof woooof wf wof

pagan harpooneers, always the whale-ship's stokers. With huge pronged
wooof wooooooooof, woooof wof wooof-woof'w wooooof. Woof woof wooooof

poles they pitched hissing masses of blubber into the scalding pots, or
wooof woof wooooof wooooof woooof wf wooooof woof wof woooooof woof, wf

stirred up the fires beneath, till the snaky flames darted, curling, out
wooooof wf wof wooof wooooof, woof wof wooof woooof woooof, wooooof, wof

of the doors to catch them by the feet. The smoke rolled away in sullen
wf wof wooof wf wooof woof wf wof woof. Wof wooof woooof woof wf woooof

heaps. To every pitch of the ship there was a pitch of the boiling oil,
wooof. Wf wooof wooof wf wof woof wooof wof w wooof wf wof wooooof wof,

which seemed all eagerness to leap into their faces. Opposite the mouth
wooof woooof wof wooooooof wf woof woof wooof wooof. Woooooof wof wooof

of the works, on the further side of the wide wooden hearth, was the
wf wof wooof, wf wof wooooof woof wf wof woof woooof woooof, wof wof

windlass. This served for a sea-sofa. Here lounged the watch, when not
woooooof. Woof woooof wof w wof-woof. Woof wooooof wof wooof, woof wof

otherwise employed, looking into the red heat of the fire, till their
wooooooof woooooof, wooooof woof wof wof woof wf wof woof, woof wooof

eyes felt scorched in their heads. Their tawny features, now all
woof woof woooooof wf wooof wooof. Wooof wooof woooooof, wof wof

begrimed with smoke and sweat, their matted beards, and the contrasting
woooooof woof wooof wof wooof, wooof woooof woooof, wof wof wooooooooof

barbaric brilliancy of their teeth, all these were strangely revealed in
woooooof woooooooof wf wooof wooof, wof wooof woof wooooooof woooooof wf

the capricious emblazonings of the works. As they narrated to each other
wof woooooooof woooooooooof wf wof wooof. Wf woof woooooof wf woof wooof

their unholy adventures, their tales of terror told in words of mirth;
wooof woooof woooooooof, wooof wooof wf woooof woof wf wooof wf wooof;

as their uncivilized laughter forked upwards out of them, like the
wf wooof wooooooooof woooooof woooof wooooof wof wf woof, woof wof

flames from the furnace; as to and fro, in their front, the harpooneers
woooof woof wof wooooof; wf wf wof wof, wf wooof wooof, wof wooooooooof

wildly gesticulated with their huge pronged forks and dippers; as the
woooof woooooooooof woof wooof woof wooooof wooof wof wooooof; wf wof

wind howled on, and the sea leaped, and the ship groaned and dived, and
woof woooof wf, wof wof wof woooof, wof wof woof wooooof wof wooof, wof

yet steadfastly shot her red hell further and further into the blackness
wof wooooooooof woof wof wof woof wooooof wof wooooof woof wof wooooooof

of the sea and the night, and scornfully champed the white bone in
wf wof wof wof wof wooof, wof woooooooof wooooof wof wooof woof wf

her mouth, and viciously spat round her on all sides; then the rushing
wof wooof, wof wooooooof woof wooof wof wf wof wooof; woof wof wooooof

Pequod, freighted with savages, and laden with fire, and burning
Woooof, wooooooof woof wooooof, wof wooof woof woof, wof wooooof

a corpse, and plunging into that blackness of darkness, seemed the
w woooof, wof woooooof woof woof wooooooof wf woooooof, woooof wof

material counterpart of her monomaniac commander's soul.
woooooof wooooooooof wf wof woooooooof wooooooof'w woof.




So seemed it to me, as I stood at her helm, and for long hours silently
Wf woooof wf wf wf, wf W wooof wf wof woof, wof wof woof wooof woooooof

guided the way of this fire-ship on the sea. Wrapped, for that interval,
woooof wof wof wf woof woof-woof wf wof wof. Wooooof, wof woof woooooof,

in darkness myself, I but the better saw the redness, the madness, the
wf woooooof woooof, W wof wof woooof wof wof wooooof, wof wooooof, wof

ghastliness of others. The continual sight of the fiend shapes before
wooooooooof wf woooof. Wof wooooooof wooof wf wof wooof woooof woooof

me, capering half in smoke and half in fire, these at last begat kindred
wf, woooooof woof wf wooof wof woof wf woof, wooof wf woof wooof wooooof

visions in my soul, so soon as I began to yield to that unaccountable
wooooof wf wf woof, wf woof wf W wooof wf wooof wf woof wooooooooooof

drowsiness which ever would come over me at a midnight helm.
woooooooof wooof woof wooof woof woof wf wf w woooooof woof.




But that night, in particular, a strange (and ever since inexplicable)
Wof woof wooof, wf woooooooof, w wooooof (wof woof wooof woooooooooof)

thing occurred to me. Starting from a brief standing sleep, I was
wooof woooooof wf wf. Woooooof woof w wooof woooooof wooof, W wof

horribly conscious of something fatally wrong. The jaw-bone tiller smote
woooooof wooooooof wf wooooooof wooooof wooof. Wof wof-woof woooof wooof

my side, which leaned against it; in my ears was the low hum of sails,
wf woof, wooof woooof wooooof wf; wf wf woof wof wof wof wof wf wooof,

just beginning to shake in the wind; I thought my eyes were open; I
woof wooooooof wf wooof wf wof woof; W wooooof wf woof woof woof; W

was half conscious of putting my fingers to the lids and mechanically
wof woof wooooooof wf wooooof wf wooooof wf wof woof wof woooooooooof

stretching them still further apart. But, spite of all this, I could see
woooooooof woof wooof wooooof wooof. Wof, wooof wf wof woof, W wooof wof

no compass before me to steer by; though it seemed but a minute since I
wf wooooof woooof wf wf wooof wf; woooof wf woooof wof w woooof wooof W

had been watching the card, by the steady binnacle lamp illuminating it.
wof woof woooooof wof woof, wf wof woooof woooooof woof woooooooooof wf.

Nothing seemed before me but a jet gloom, now and then made ghastly by
Wooooof woooof woooof wf wof w wof wooof, wof wof woof woof wooooof wf

flashes of redness. Uppermost was the impression, that whatever swift,
wooooof wf wooooof. Wooooooof wof wof woooooooof, woof woooooof wooof,

rushing thing I stood on was not so much bound to any haven ahead as
wooooof wooof W wooof wf wof wof wf woof wooof wf wof wooof wooof wf

rushing from all havens astern. A stark, bewildered feeling, as of
wooooof woof wof woooof woooof. W wooof, woooooooof wooooof, wf wf

death, came over me. Convulsively my hands grasped the tiller, but with
wooof, woof woof wf. Woooooooooof wf wooof wooooof wof woooof, wof woof

the crazy conceit that the tiller was, somehow, in some enchanted way,
wof wooof wooooof woof wof woooof wof, wooooof, wf woof wooooooof wof,

inverted. My God! what is the matter with me? thought I. Lo! in my brief
woooooof. Wf Wof! woof wf wof woooof woof wf? wooooof W. Wf! wf wf wooof

sleep I had turned myself about, and was fronting the ship's stern, with
wooof W wof woooof woooof wooof, wof wof woooooof wof woof'w wooof, woof

my back to her prow and the compass. In an instant I faced back, just
wf woof wf wof woof wof wof wooooof. Wf wf wooooof W wooof woof, woof

in time to prevent the vessel from flying up into the wind, and very
wf woof wf wooooof wof woooof woof woooof wf woof wof woof, wof woof

probably capsizing her. How glad and how grateful the relief from this
woooooof wooooooof wof. Wof woof wof wof woooooof wof woooof woof woof

unnatural hallucination of the night, and the fatal contingency of being
wooooooof wooooooooooof wf wof wooof, wof wof wooof wooooooooof wf wooof

brought by the lee!
wooooof wf wof wof!




Look not too long in the face of the fire, O man! Never dream with thy
Woof wof wof woof wf wof woof wf wof woof, W wof! Wooof wooof woof wof

hand on the helm! Turn not thy back to the compass; accept the first
woof wf wof woof! Woof wof wof woof wf wof wooooof; woooof wof wooof

hint of the hitching tiller; believe not the artificial fire, when its
woof wf wof woooooof woooof; wooooof wof wof woooooooof woof, woof wof

redness makes all things look ghastly. To-morrow, in the natural sun,
wooooof wooof wof woooof woof wooooof. Wf-woooof, wf wof wooooof wof,

the skies will be bright; those who glared like devils in the forking
wof wooof woof wf woooof; wooof wof woooof woof woooof wf wof wooooof

flames, the morn will show in far other, at least gentler, relief; the
woooof, wof woof woof woof wf wof wooof, wf wooof wooooof, woooof; wof

glorious, golden, glad sun, the only true lamp--all others but liars!
woooooof, woooof, woof wof, wof woof woof woof--wof woooof wof wooof!




Nevertheless the sun hides not Virginia's Dismal Swamp, nor Rome's
Woooooooooof wof wof wooof wof Woooooof'w Woooof Wooof, wof Woof'w

accursed Campagna, nor wide Sahara, nor all the millions of miles of
woooooof Woooooof, wof woof Woooof, wof wof wof woooooof wf wooof wf

deserts and of griefs beneath the moon. The sun hides not the ocean,
wooooof wof wf woooof wooooof wof woof. Wof wof wooof wof wof wooof,

which is the dark side of this earth, and which is two thirds of this
wooof wf wof woof woof wf woof wooof, wof wooof wf wof woooof wf woof

earth. So, therefore, that mortal man who hath more of joy than sorrow
wooof. Wf, wooooooof, woof woooof wof wof woof woof wf wof woof woooof

in him, that mortal man cannot be true--not true, or undeveloped. With
wf wof, woof woooof wof woooof wf woof--wof woof, wf wooooooooof. Woof

books the same. The truest of all men was the Man of Sorrows, and the
wooof wof woof. Wof woooof wf wof wof wof wof Wof wf Wooooof, wof wof

truest of all books is Solomon's, and Ecclesiastes is the fine hammered
woooof wf wof wooof wf Wooooof'w, wof Woooooooooof wf wof woof woooooof

steel of woe. "All is vanity." ALL. This wilful world hath not got hold
wooof wf wof. "Wof wf woooof." WOF. Woof woooof wooof woof wof wof woof

of unchristian Solomon's wisdom yet. But he who dodges hospitals and
wf wooooooooof Wooooof'w woooof wof. Wof wf wof woooof wooooooof wof

jails, and walks fast crossing graveyards, and would rather talk of
wooof, wof wooof woof woooooof woooooooof, wof wooof woooof woof wf

operas than hell; calls Cowper, Young, Pascal, Rousseau, poor devils all
woooof woof woof; wooof Woooof, Wooof, Woooof, Woooooof, woof woooof wof

of sick men; and throughout a care-free lifetime swears by Rabelais as
wf woof wof; wof woooooooof w woof-woof woooooof woooof wf Woooooof wf

passing wise, and therefore jolly;--not that man is fitted to sit
wooooof woof, wof wooooooof wooof;--wof woof wof wf woooof wf wof

down on tomb-stones, and break the green damp mould with unfathomably
woof wf woof-woooof, wof wooof wof wooof woof wooof woof woooooooooof

wondrous Solomon.
woooooof Wooooof.




But even Solomon, he says, "the man that wandereth out of the way
Wof woof Wooooof, wf woof, "wof wof woof wooooooof wof wf wof wof

of understanding shall remain" (I.E., even while living) "in the
wf wooooooooooof wooof woooof" (W.W., woof wooof woooof) "wf wof

congregation of the dead." Give not thyself up, then, to fire, lest it
woooooooooof wf wof woof." Woof wof wooooof wf, woof, wf woof, woof wf

invert thee, deaden thee; as for the time it did me. There is a wisdom
woooof woof, woooof woof; wf wof wof woof wf wof wf. Wooof wf w woooof

that is woe; but there is a woe that is madness. And there is a Catskill
woof wf wof; wof wooof wf w wof woof wf wooooof. Wof wooof wf w Woooooof

eagle in some souls that can alike dive down into the blackest gorges,
wooof wf woof wooof woof wof wooof woof woof woof wof woooooof woooof,

and soar out of them again and become invisible in the sunny spaces.
wof woof wof wf woof wooof wof woooof wooooooof wf wof wooof woooof.

And even if he for ever flies within the gorge, that gorge is in the
Wof woof wf wf wof woof wooof woooof wof wooof, woof wooof wf wf wof

mountains; so that even in his lowest swoop the mountain eagle is still
wooooooof; wf woof woof wf wof woooof wooof wof woooooof wooof wf wooof

higher than other birds upon the plain, even though they soar.
woooof woof wooof wooof woof wof wooof, woof woooof woof woof.










CHAPTER 97. The Lamp.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Woof.







Had you descended from the Pequod's try-works to the Pequod's
Wof wof wooooooof woof wof Woooof'w wof-wooof wf wof Woooof'w

forecastle, where the off duty watch were sleeping, for one single
woooooooof, wooof wof wof woof wooof woof woooooof, wof wof woooof

moment you would have almost thought you were standing in some
woooof wof wooof woof woooof wooooof wof woof woooooof wf woof

illuminated shrine of canonized kings and counsellors. There they lay
wooooooooof woooof wf wooooooof wooof wof wooooooooof. Wooof woof wof

in their triangular oaken vaults, each mariner a chiselled muteness; a
wf wooof woooooooof wooof woooof, woof wooooof w wooooooof woooooof; w

score of lamps flashing upon his hooded eyes.
wooof wf wooof woooooof woof wof woooof woof.




In merchantmen, oil for the sailor is more scarce than the milk of
Wf wooooooooof, wof wof wof woooof wf woof woooof woof wof woof wf

queens. To dress in the dark, and eat in the dark, and stumble in
woooof. Wf wooof wf wof woof, wof wof wf wof woof, wof wooooof wf

darkness to his pallet, this is his usual lot. But the whaleman, as he
woooooof wf wof woooof, woof wf wof wooof wof. Wof wof woooooof, wf wf

seeks the food of light, so he lives in light. He makes his berth an
wooof wof woof wf wooof, wf wf wooof wf wooof. Wf wooof wof wooof wf

Aladdin's lamp, and lays him down in it; so that in the pitchiest night
Wooooof'w woof, wof woof wof woof wf wf; wf woof wf wof wooooooof wooof

the ship's black hull still houses an illumination.
wof woof'w wooof woof wooof woooof wf woooooooooof.




See with what entire freedom the whaleman takes his handful of
Wof woof woof woooof wooooof wof woooooof wooof wof wooooof wf

lamps--often but old bottles and vials, though--to the copper cooler at
wooof--wooof wof wof wooooof wof wooof, woooof--wf wof woooof woooof wf

the try-works, and replenishes them there, as mugs of ale at a vat. He
wof wof-wooof, wof wooooooooof woof wooof, wf woof wf wof wf w wof. Wf

burns, too, the purest of oil, in its unmanufactured, and, therefore,
wooof, wof, wof woooof wf wof, wf wof woooooooooooof, wof, wooooooof,

unvitiated state; a fluid unknown to solar, lunar, or astral
woooooooof wooof; w wooof wooooof wf wooof, wooof, wf woooof

contrivances ashore. It is sweet as early grass butter in April. He
woooooooooof woooof. Wf wf wooof wf wooof wooof woooof wf Wooof. Wf

goes and hunts for his oil, so as to be sure of its freshness and
woof wof wooof wof wof wof, wf wf wf wf woof wf wof wooooooof wof

genuineness, even as the traveller on the prairie hunts up his own
wooooooooof, woof wf wof wooooooof wf wof wooooof wooof wf wof wof

supper of game.
woooof wf woof.










CHAPTER 98. Stowing Down and Clearing Up.
WOOOOOF wf. Wooooof Woof wof Woooooof Wf.







Already has it been related how the great leviathan is afar off
Wooooof wof wf woof wooooof wof wof wooof wooooooof wf woof wof

descried from the mast-head; how he is chased over the watery moors, and
woooooof woof wof woof-woof; wof wf wf woooof woof wof woooof wooof, wof

slaughtered in the valleys of the deep; how he is then towed alongside
wooooooooof wf wof wooooof wf wof woof; wof wf wf woof wooof wooooooof

and beheaded; and how (on the principle which entitled the headsman of
wof woooooof; wof wof (wf wof wooooooof wooof woooooof wof woooooof wf

old to the garments in which the beheaded was killed) his great padded
wof wf wof woooooof wf wooof wof woooooof wof woooof) wof wooof woooof

surtout becomes the property of his executioner; how, in due time, he
wooooof wooooof wof woooooof wf wof wooooooooof; wof, wf wof woof, wf

is condemned to the pots, and, like Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, his
wf wooooooof wf wof woof, wof, woof Woooooof, Wooooof, wof Woooooof, wof

spermaceti, oil, and bone pass unscathed through the fire;--but now it
woooooooof, wof, wof woof woof wooooooof wooooof wof woof;--wof wof wf

remains to conclude the last chapter of this part of the description by
wooooof wf woooooof wof woof wooooof wf woof woof wf wof wooooooooof wf

rehearsing--singing, if I may--the romantic proceeding of decanting off
woooooooof--wooooof, wf W wof--wof woooooof woooooooof wf wooooooof wof

his oil into the casks and striking them down into the hold, where
wof wof woof wof wooof wof woooooof woof woof woof wof woof, wooof

once again leviathan returns to his native profundities, sliding along
woof wooof wooooooof wooooof wf wof woooof woooooooooof, wooooof wooof

beneath the surface as before; but, alas! never more to rise and blow.
wooooof wof wooooof wf woooof; wof, woof! wooof woof wf woof wof woof.




While still warm, the oil, like hot punch, is received into the
Wooof wooof woof, wof wof, woof wof wooof, wf woooooof woof wof

six-barrel casks; and while, perhaps, the ship is pitching and rolling
wof-woooof wooof; wof wooof, wooooof, wof woof wf woooooof wof wooooof

this way and that in the midnight sea, the enormous casks are slewed
woof wof wof woof wf wof woooooof wof, wof woooooof wooof wof woooof

round and headed over, end for end, and sometimes perilously scoot
wooof wof woooof woof, wof wof wof, wof wooooooof woooooooof wooof

across the slippery deck, like so many land slides, till at last
woooof wof woooooof woof, woof wf woof woof woooof, woof wf woof

man-handled and stayed in their course; and all round the hoops, rap,
wof-wooooof wof woooof wf wooof woooof; wof wof wooof wof wooof, wof,

rap, go as many hammers as can play upon them, for now, EX OFFICIO,
wof, wf wf woof wooooof wf wof woof woof woof, wof wof, WF WOOOOOF,

every sailor is a cooper.
wooof woooof wf w woooof.




At length, when the last pint is casked, and all is cool, then the great
Wf woooof, woof wof woof woof wf woooof, wof wof wf woof, woof wof wooof

hatchways are unsealed, the bowels of the ship are thrown open, and down
wooooooof wof woooooof, wof woooof wf wof woof wof woooof woof, wof woof

go the casks to their final rest in the sea. This done, the hatches are
wf wof wooof wf wooof wooof woof wf wof wof. Woof woof, wof wooooof wof

replaced, and hermetically closed, like a closet walled up.
woooooof, wof woooooooooof woooof, woof w woooof woooof wf.




In the sperm fishery, this is perhaps one of the most remarkable
Wf wof wooof wooooof, woof wf wooooof wof wf wof woof woooooooof

incidents in all the business of whaling. One day the planks stream with
wooooooof wf wof wof woooooof wf wooooof. Wof wof wof woooof woooof woof

freshets of blood and oil; on the sacred quarter-deck enormous masses of
woooooof wf wooof wof wof; wf wof woooof wooooof-woof woooooof woooof wf

the whale's head are profanely piled; great rusty casks lie about, as
wof wooof'w woof wof wooooooof wooof; wooof wooof wooof wof wooof, wf

in a brewery yard; the smoke from the try-works has besooted all the
wf w wooooof woof; wof wooof woof wof wof-wooof wof woooooof wof wof

bulwarks; the mariners go about suffused with unctuousness; the entire
woooooof; wof woooooof wf wooof woooooof woof woooooooooof; wof woooof

ship seems great leviathan himself; while on all hands the din is
woof wooof wooof wooooooof wooooof; wooof wf wof wooof wof wof wf

deafening.
wooooooof.




But a day or two after, you look about you, and prick your ears in this
Wof w wof wf wof wooof, wof woof wooof wof, wof wooof woof woof wf woof

self-same ship; and were it not for the tell-tale boats and try-works,
woof-woof woof; wof woof wf wof wof wof woof-woof wooof wof wof-wooof,

you would all but swear you trod some silent merchant vessel, with a
wof wooof wof wof wooof wof woof woof woooof woooooof woooof, woof w

most scrupulously neat commander. The unmanufactured sperm oil possesses
woof woooooooooof woof wooooooof. Wof woooooooooooof wooof wof wooooooof

a singularly cleansing virtue. This is the reason why the decks never
w woooooooof wooooooof woooof. Woof wf wof woooof wof wof wooof wooof

look so white as just after what they call an affair of oil. Besides,
woof wf wooof wf woof wooof woof woof woof wf woooof wf wof. Wooooof,

from the ashes of the burned scraps of the whale, a potent lye is
woof wof wooof wf wof woooof woooof wf wof wooof, w woooof wof wf

readily made; and whenever any adhesiveness from the back of the whale
wooooof woof; wof woooooof wof woooooooooof woof wof woof wf wof wooof

remains clinging to the side, that lye quickly exterminates it. Hands
wooooof woooooof wf wof woof, woof wof wooooof woooooooooof wf. Wooof

go diligently along the bulwarks, and with buckets of water and rags
wf woooooooof wooof wof woooooof, wof woof wooooof wf wooof wof woof

restore them to their full tidiness. The soot is brushed from the lower
wooooof woof wf wooof woof woooooof. Wof woof wf wooooof woof wof wooof

rigging. All the numerous implements which have been in use are likewise
wooooof. Wof wof woooooof woooooooof wooof woof woof wf wof wof woooooof

faithfully cleansed and put away. The great hatch is scrubbed and placed
woooooooof woooooof wof wof woof. Wof wooof wooof wf woooooof wof woooof

upon the try-works, completely hiding the pots; every cask is out of
woof wof wof-wooof, woooooooof woooof wof woof; wooof woof wf wof wf

sight; all tackles are coiled in unseen nooks; and when by the combined
wooof; wof wooooof wof woooof wf woooof wooof; wof woof wf wof woooooof

and simultaneous industry of almost the entire ship's company, the
wof woooooooooof woooooof wf woooof wof woooof woof'w wooooof, wof

whole of this conscientious duty is at last concluded, then the crew
wooof wf woof wooooooooooof woof wf wf woof wooooooof, woof wof woof

themselves proceed to their own ablutions; shift themselves from top to
woooooooof wooooof wf wooof wof wooooooof; wooof woooooooof woof wof wf

toe; and finally issue to the immaculate deck, fresh and all aglow, as
wof; wof wooooof wooof wf wof woooooooof woof, wooof wof wof wooof, wf

bridegrooms new-leaped from out the daintiest Holland.
wooooooooof wof-woooof woof wof wof wooooooof Wooooof.




Now, with elated step, they pace the planks in twos and threes, and
Wof, woof woooof woof, woof woof wof woooof wf woof wof woooof, wof

humorously discourse of parlors, sofas, carpets, and fine cambrics;
woooooooof wooooooof wf wooooof, wooof, wooooof, wof woof woooooof;

propose to mat the deck; think of having hanging to the top; object not
wooooof wf wof wof woof; wooof wf woooof wooooof wf wof wof; woooof wof

to taking tea by moonlight on the piazza of the forecastle. To hint to
wf woooof wof wf wooooooof wf wof woooof wf wof woooooooof. Wf woof wf

such musked mariners of oil, and bone, and blubber, were little short
woof woooof woooooof wf wof, wof woof, wof wooooof, woof woooof wooof

of audacity. They know not the thing you distantly allude to. Away, and
wf woooooof. Woof woof wof wof wooof wof wooooooof woooof wf. Woof, wof

bring us napkins!
wooof wf wooooof!




But mark: aloft there, at the three mast heads, stand three men intent
Wof woof: wooof wooof, wf wof wooof woof wooof, wooof wooof wof woooof

on spying out more whales, which, if caught, infallibly will again
wf woooof wof woof woooof, wooof, wf woooof, woooooooof woof wooof

soil the old oaken furniture, and drop at least one small grease-spot
woof wof wof wooof wooooooof, wof woof wf wooof wof wooof woooof-woof

somewhere. Yes; and many is the time, when, after the severest
wooooooof. Wof; wof woof wf wof woof, woof, wooof wof woooooof

uninterrupted labors, which know no night; continuing straight through
wooooooooooof woooof, wooof woof wf wooof; woooooooof woooooof wooooof

for ninety-six hours; when from the boat, where they have swelled their
wof woooof-wof wooof; woof woof wof woof, wooof woof woof wooooof wooof

wrists with all day rowing on the Line,--they only step to the deck to
woooof woof wof wof woooof wf wof Woof,--woof woof woof wf wof woof wf

carry vast chains, and heave the heavy windlass, and cut and slash, yea,
wooof woof woooof, wof wooof wof wooof woooooof, wof wof wof wooof, wof,

and in their very sweatings to be smoked and burned anew by the combined
wof wf wooof woof wooooooof wf wf woooof wof woooof woof wf wof woooooof

fires of the equatorial sun and the equatorial try-works; when, on the
wooof wf wof woooooooof wof wof wof woooooooof wof-wooof; woof, wf wof

heel of all this, they have finally bestirred themselves to cleanse the
woof wf wof woof, woof woof wooooof wooooooof woooooooof wf wooooof wof

ship, and make a spotless dairy room of it; many is the time the poor
woof, wof woof w woooooof wooof woof wf wf; woof wf wof woof wof woof

fellows, just buttoning the necks of their clean frocks, are startled by
wooooof, woof wooooooof wof wooof wf wooof wooof woooof, wof woooooof wf

the cry of "There she blows!" and away they fly to fight another whale,
wof wof wf "Wooof wof wooof!" wof woof woof wof wf wooof wooooof wooof,

and go through the whole weary thing again. Oh! my friends, but this
wof wf wooooof wof wooof wooof wooof wooof. Wf! wf wooooof, wof woof

is man-killing! Yet this is life. For hardly have we mortals by long
wf wof-wooooof! Wof woof wf woof. Wof woooof woof wf wooooof wf woof

toilings extracted from this world's vast bulk its small but valuable
woooooof wooooooof woof woof wooof'w woof woof wof wooof wof woooooof

sperm; and then, with weary patience, cleansed ourselves from its
wooof; wof woof, woof wooof woooooof, woooooof wooooooof woof wof

defilements, and learned to live here in clean tabernacles of the soul;
wooooooooof, wof wooooof wf woof woof wf wooof wooooooooof wf wof woof;

hardly is this done, when--THERE SHE BLOWS!--the ghost is spouted up,
woooof wf woof woof, woof--WOOOF WOF WOOOF!--wof wooof wf wooooof wf,

and away we sail to fight some other world, and go through young life's
wof woof wf woof wf wooof woof wooof wooof, wof wf wooooof wooof woof'w

old routine again.
wof wooooof wooof.




Oh! the metempsychosis! Oh! Pythagoras, that in bright Greece, two
Wf! wof woooooooooooof! Wf! Woooooooof, woof wf woooof Woooof, wof

thousand years ago, did die, so good, so wise, so mild; I sailed with
woooooof wooof wof, wof wof, wf woof, wf woof, wf woof; W woooof woof

thee along the Peruvian coast last voyage--and, foolish as I am, taught
woof wooof wof Woooooof wooof woof woooof--wof, wooooof wf W wf, woooof

thee, a green simple boy, how to splice a rope!
woof, w wooof woooof wof, wof wf woooof w woof!










CHAPTER 99. The Doubloon.
WOOOOOF wf. Wof Woooooof.







Ere now it has been related how Ahab was wont to pace his quarter-deck,
Wof wof wf wof woof wooooof wof Woof wof woof wf woof wof wooooof-woof,

taking regular turns at either limit, the binnacle and mainmast; but
woooof wooooof wooof wf woooof wooof, wof woooooof wof woooooof; wof

in the multiplicity of other things requiring narration it has not been
wf wof woooooooooof wf wooof woooof wooooooof wooooooof wf wof wof woof

added how that sometimes in these walks, when most plunged in his mood,
wooof wof woof wooooooof wf wooof wooof, woof woof wooooof wf wof woof,

he was wont to pause in turn at each spot, and stand there strangely
wf wof woof wf wooof wf woof wf woof woof, wof wooof wooof wooooooof

eyeing the particular object before him. When he halted before the
woooof wof woooooooof woooof woooof wof. Woof wf woooof woooof wof

binnacle, with his glance fastened on the pointed needle in the compass,
woooooof, woof wof woooof woooooof wf wof wooooof woooof wf wof wooooof,

that glance shot like a javelin with the pointed intensity of his
woof woooof woof woof w wooooof woof wof wooooof wooooooof wf wof

purpose; and when resuming his walk he again paused before the mainmast,
wooooof; wof woof woooooof wof woof wf wooof woooof woooof wof woooooof,

then, as the same riveted glance fastened upon the riveted gold coin
woof, wf wof woof wooooof woooof woooooof woof wof wooooof woof woof

there, he still wore the same aspect of nailed firmness, only dashed
wooof, wf wooof woof wof woof woooof wf woooof woooooof, woof woooof

with a certain wild longing, if not hopefulness.
woof w wooooof woof wooooof, wf wof wooooooooof.




But one morning, turning to pass the doubloon, he seemed to be newly
Wof wof wooooof, wooooof wf woof wof woooooof, wf woooof wf wf wooof

attracted by the strange figures and inscriptions stamped on it, as
wooooooof wf wof wooooof wooooof wof woooooooooof wooooof wf wf, wf

though now for the first time beginning to interpret for himself in
woooof wof wof wof wooof woof wooooooof wf wooooooof wof wooooof wf

some monomaniac way whatever significance might lurk in them. And some
woof woooooooof wof woooooof woooooooooof wooof woof wf woof. Wof woof

certain significance lurks in all things, else all things are little
wooooof woooooooooof wooof wf wof woooof, woof wof woooof wof woooof

worth, and the round world itself but an empty cipher, except to sell by
wooof, wof wof wooof wooof woooof wof wf wooof woooof, woooof wf woof wf

the cartload, as they do hills about Boston, to fill up some morass in
wof woooooof, wf woof wf wooof wooof Woooof, wf woof wf woof woooof wf

the Milky Way.
wof Wooof Wof.




Now this doubloon was of purest, virgin gold, raked somewhere out of the
Wof woof woooooof wof wf woooof, woooof woof, wooof wooooooof wof wf wof

heart of gorgeous hills, whence, east and west, over golden sands, the
wooof wf woooooof wooof, woooof, woof wof woof, woof woooof wooof, wof

head-waters of many a Pactolus flows. And though now nailed amidst all
woof-woooof wf woof w Woooooof wooof. Wof woooof wof woooof woooof wof

the rustiness of iron bolts and the verdigris of copper spikes, yet,
wof wooooooof wf woof wooof wof wof wooooooof wf woooof woooof, wof,

untouchable and immaculate to any foulness, it still preserved its Quito
wooooooooof wof woooooooof wf wof woooooof, wf wooof wooooooof wof Wooof

glow. Nor, though placed amongst a ruthless crew and every hour passed
woof. Wof, woooof woooof wooooof w woooooof woof wof wooof woof woooof

by ruthless hands, and through the livelong nights shrouded with thick
wf woooooof wooof, wof wooooof wof woooooof woooof woooooof woof wooof

darkness which might cover any pilfering approach, nevertheless every
woooooof wooof wooof wooof wof wooooooof woooooof, woooooooooof wooof

sunrise found the doubloon where the sunset left it last. For it was
wooooof wooof wof woooooof wooof wof woooof woof wf woof. Wof wf wof

set apart and sanctified to one awe-striking end; and however wanton
wof wooof wof woooooooof wf wof wof-woooooof wof; wof wooooof woooof

in their sailor ways, one and all, the mariners revered it as the white
wf wooof woooof woof, wof wof wof, wof woooooof wooooof wf wf wof wooof

whale's talisman. Sometimes they talked it over in the weary watch by
wooof'w woooooof. Wooooooof woof woooof wf woof wf wof wooof wooof wf

night, wondering whose it was to be at last, and whether he would ever
wooof, wooooooof wooof wf wof wf wf wf woof, wof wooooof wf wooof woof

live to spend it.
woof wf wooof wf.




Now those noble golden coins of South America are as medals of the sun
Wof wooof wooof woooof wooof wf Wooof Wooooof wof wf woooof wf wof wof

and tropic token-pieces. Here palms, alpacas, and volcanoes; sun's disks
wof woooof wooof-woooof. Woof wooof, wooooof, wof wooooooof; wof'w wooof

and stars; ecliptics, horns-of-plenty, and rich banners waving, are in
wof wooof; wooooooof, wooof-wf-woooof, wof woof wooooof woooof, wof wf

luxuriant profusion stamped; so that the precious gold seems almost to
wooooooof wooooooof wooooof; wf woof wof woooooof woof wooof woooof wf

derive an added preciousness and enhancing glories, by passing through
woooof wf wooof woooooooooof wof wooooooof wooooof, wf wooooof wooooof

those fancy mints, so Spanishly poetic.
wooof wooof wooof, wf Wooooooof woooof.




It so chanced that the doubloon of the Pequod was a most wealthy example
Wf wf wooooof woof wof woooooof wf wof Woooof wof w woof wooooof wooooof

of these things. On its round border it bore the letters, REPUBLICA DEL
wf wooof woooof. Wf wof wooof woooof wf woof wof wooooof, WOOOOOOOF WOF

ECUADOR: QUITO. So this bright coin came from a country planted in the
WOOOOOF: WOOOF. Wf woof woooof woof woof woof w wooooof wooooof wf wof

middle of the world, and beneath the great equator, and named after it;
woooof wf wof wooof, wof wooooof wof wooof wooooof, wof wooof wooof wf;

and it had been cast midway up the Andes, in the unwaning clime that
wof wf wof woof woof woooof wf wof Wooof, wf wof woooooof wooof woof

knows no autumn. Zoned by those letters you saw the likeness of three
wooof wf woooof. Wooof wf wooof wooooof wof wof wof woooooof wf wooof

Andes' summits; from one a flame; a tower on another; on the third a
Wooof' wooooof; woof wof w wooof; w wooof wf wooooof; wf wof wooof w

crowing cock; while arching over all was a segment of the partitioned
wooooof woof; wooof wooooof woof wof wof w wooooof wf wof wooooooooof

zodiac, the signs all marked with their usual cabalistics, and the
woooof, wof wooof wof woooof woof wooof wooof wooooooooof, wof wof

keystone sun entering the equinoctial point at Libra.
woooooof wof woooooof wof wooooooooof wooof wf Wooof.




Before this equatorial coin, Ahab, not unobserved by others, was now
Woooof woof woooooooof woof, Woof, wof woooooooof wf woooof, wof wof

pausing.
wooooof.




"There's something ever egotistical in mountain-tops and towers, and
"Wooof'w wooooooof woof wooooooooof wf woooooof-woof wof woooof, wof

all other grand and lofty things; look here,--three peaks as proud as
wof wooof wooof wof wooof woooof; woof woof,--wooof wooof wf wooof wf

Lucifer. The firm tower, that is Ahab; the volcano, that is Ahab; the
Wooooof. Wof woof wooof, woof wf Woof; wof wooooof, woof wf Woof; wof

courageous, the undaunted, and victorious fowl, that, too, is Ahab; all
woooooooof, wof wooooooof, wof woooooooof woof, woof, wof, wf Woof; wof

are Ahab; and this round gold is but the image of the rounder globe,
wof Woof; wof woof wooof woof wf wof wof wooof wf wof wooooof wooof,

which, like a magician's glass, to each and every man in turn but
wooof, woof w woooooof'w wooof, wf woof wof wooof wof wf woof wof

mirrors back his own mysterious self. Great pains, small gains for those
wooooof woof wof wof woooooooof woof. Wooof wooof, wooof wooof wof wooof

who ask the world to solve them; it cannot solve itself. Methinks now
wof wof wof wooof wf wooof woof; wf woooof wooof woooof. Woooooof wof

this coined sun wears a ruddy face; but see! aye, he enters the sign
woof woooof wof wooof w wooof woof; wof wof! wof, wf woooof wof woof

of storms, the equinox! and but six months before he wheeled out of a
wf woooof, wof wooooof! wof wof wof woooof woooof wf wooooof wof wf w

former equinox at Aries! From storm to storm! So be it, then. Born in
woooof wooooof wf Wooof! Woof wooof wf wooof! Wf wf wf, woof. Woof wf

throes, 't is fit that man should live in pains and die in pangs! So be
woooof, 'w wf wof woof wof woooof woof wf wooof wof wof wf wooof! Wf wf

it, then! Here's stout stuff for woe to work on. So be it, then."
wf, woof! Woof'w wooof wooof wof wof wf woof wf. Wf wf wf, woof."




"No fairy fingers can have pressed the gold, but devil's claws must
"Wf wooof wooooof wof woof wooooof wof woof, wof wooof'w wooof woof

have left their mouldings there since yesterday," murmured Starbuck
woof woof wooof wooooooof wooof wooof wooooooof," woooooof Woooooof

to himself, leaning against the bulwarks. "The old man seems to read
wf wooooof, wooooof wooooof wof woooooof. "Wof wof wof wooof wf woof

Belshazzar's awful writing. I have never marked the coin inspectingly.
Woooooooof'w wooof wooooof. W woof wooof woooof wof woof woooooooooof.

He goes below; let me read. A dark valley between three mighty,
Wf woof wooof; wof wf woof. W woof woooof wooooof wooof woooof,

heaven-abiding peaks, that almost seem the Trinity, in some faint
woooof-wooooof wooof, woof woooof woof wof Wooooof, wf woof wooof

earthly symbol. So in this vale of Death, God girds us round; and over
wooooof woooof. Wf wf woof woof wf Wooof, Wof wooof wf wooof; wof woof

all our gloom, the sun of Righteousness still shines a beacon and a
wof wof wooof, wof wof wf Wooooooooooof wooof woooof w woooof wof w

hope. If we bend down our eyes, the dark vale shows her mouldy soil;
woof. Wf wf woof woof wof woof, wof woof woof wooof wof woooof woof;

but if we lift them, the bright sun meets our glance half way, to cheer.
wof wf wf woof woof, wof woooof wof wooof wof woooof woof wof, wf wooof.

Yet, oh, the great sun is no fixture; and if, at midnight, we would fain
Wof, wf, wof wooof wof wf wf wooooof; wof wf, wf woooooof, wf wooof woof

snatch some sweet solace from him, we gaze for him in vain! This coin
woooof woof wooof woooof woof wof, wf woof wof wof wf woof! Woof woof

speaks wisely, mildly, truly, but still sadly to me. I will quit it,
woooof woooof, woooof, wooof, wof wooof wooof wf wf. W woof woof wf,

lest Truth shake me falsely."
woof Wooof wooof wf wooooof."




"There now's the old Mogul," soliloquized Stubb by the try-works, "he's
"Wooof wof'w wof wof Wooof," woooooooooof Wooof wf wof wof-wooof, "wf'w

been twigging it; and there goes Starbuck from the same, and both with
woof woooooof wf; wof wooof woof Woooooof woof wof woof, wof woof woof

faces which I should say might be somewhere within nine fathoms long.
wooof wooof W woooof wof wooof wf wooooooof woooof woof wooooof woof.

And all from looking at a piece of gold, which did I have it now on
Wof wof woof wooooof wf w wooof wf woof, wooof wof W woof wf wof wf

Negro Hill or in Corlaer's Hook, I'd not look at it very long ere
Wooof Woof wf wf Wooooof'w Woof, W'w wof woof wf wf woof woof wof

spending it. Humph! in my poor, insignificant opinion, I regard this as
woooooof wf. Wooof! wf wf woof, wooooooooooof wooooof, W woooof woof wf

queer. I have seen doubloons before now in my voyagings; your doubloons
wooof. W woof woof wooooooof woooof wof wf wf wooooooof; woof wooooooof

of old Spain, your doubloons of Peru, your doubloons of Chili, your
wf wof Wooof, woof wooooooof wf Woof, woof wooooooof wf Wooof, woof

doubloons of Bolivia, your doubloons of Popayan; with plenty of gold
wooooooof wf Wooooof, woof wooooooof wf Wooooof; woof woooof wf woof

moidores and pistoles, and joes, and half joes, and quarter joes. What
woooooof wof woooooof, wof woof, wof woof woof, wof wooooof woof. Woof

then should there be in this doubloon of the Equator that is so killing
woof woooof wooof wf wf woof woooooof wf wof Wooooof woof wf wf wooooof

wonderful? By Golconda! let me read it once. Halloa! here's signs and
wooooooof? Wf Woooooof! wof wf woof wf woof. Woooof! woof'w wooof wof

wonders truly! That, now, is what old Bowditch in his Epitome calls the
wooooof wooof! Woof, wof, wf woof wof Woooooof wf wof Wooooof wooof wof

zodiac, and what my almanac below calls ditto. I'll get the almanac and
woooof, wof woof wf wooooof wooof wooof wooof. W'wf wof wof wooooof wof

as I have heard devils can be raised with Daboll's arithmetic, I'll try
wf W woof wooof woooof wof wf woooof woof Woooof'w woooooooof, W'wf wof

my hand at raising a meaning out of these queer curvicues here with
wf woof wf wooooof w wooooof wof wf wooof wooof wooooooof woof woof

the Massachusetts calendar. Here's the book. Let's see now. Signs and
wof Wooooooooooof woooooof. Woof'w wof woof. Wof'w wof wof. Wooof wof

wonders; and the sun, he's always among 'em. Hem, hem, hem; here they
wooooof; wof wof wof, wf'w woooof wooof 'wf. Wof, wof, wof; woof woof

are--here they go--all alive:--Aries, or the Ram; Taurus, or the Bull
wof--woof woof wf--wof wooof:--Wooof, wf wof Wof; Woooof, wf wof Woof

and Jimimi! here's Gemini himself, or the Twins. Well; the sun he
wof Woooof! woof'w Woooof wooooof, wf wof Wooof. Woof; wof wof wf

wheels among 'em. Aye, here on the coin he's just crossing the threshold
woooof wooof 'wf. Wof, woof wf wof woof wf'w woof woooooof wof wooooooof

between two of twelve sitting-rooms all in a ring. Book! you lie there;
wooooof wof wf woooof wooooof-wooof wof wf w woof. Woof! wof wof wooof;

the fact is, you books must know your places. You'll do to give us the
wof woof wf, wof wooof woof woof woof woooof. Wof'wf wf wf woof wf wof

bare words and facts, but we come in to supply the thoughts. That's my
woof wooof wof wooof, wof wf woof wf wf woooof wof woooooof. Woof'w wf

small experience, so far as the Massachusetts calendar, and Bowditch's
wooof woooooooof, wf wof wf wof Wooooooooooof woooooof, wof Woooooof'w

navigator, and Daboll's arithmetic go. Signs and wonders, eh? Pity if
wooooooof, wof Woooof'w woooooooof wf. Wooof wof wooooof, wf? Woof wf

there is nothing wonderful in signs, and significant in wonders! There's
wooof wf wooooof wooooooof wf wooof, wof wooooooooof wf wooooof! Wooof'w

a clue somewhere; wait a bit; hist--hark! By Jove, I have it! Look you,
w woof wooooooof; woof w wof; woof--woof! Wf Woof, W woof wf! Woof wof,

Doubloon, your zodiac here is the life of man in one round chapter;
Woooooof, woof woooof woof wf wof woof wf wof wf wof wooof wooooof;

and now I'll read it off, straight out of the book. Come, Almanack! To
wof wof W'wf woof wf wof, woooooof wof wf wof woof. Woof, Woooooof! Wf

begin: there's Aries, or the Ram--lecherous dog, he begets us; then,
wooof: wooof'w Wooof, wf wof Wof--wooooooof wof, wf woooof wf; woof,

Taurus, or the Bull--he bumps us the first thing; then Gemini, or the
Woooof, wf wof Woof--wf wooof wf wof wooof wooof; woof Woooof, wf wof

Twins--that is, Virtue and Vice; we try to reach Virtue, when lo! comes
Wooof--woof wf, Woooof wof Woof; wf wof wf wooof Woooof, woof wf! wooof

Cancer the Crab, and drags us back; and here, going from Virtue, Leo,
Woooof wof Woof, wof wooof wf woof; wof woof, wooof woof Woooof, Wof,

a roaring Lion, lies in the path--he gives a few fierce bites and surly
w wooooof Woof, woof wf wof woof--wf wooof w wof woooof wooof wof wooof

dabs with his paw; we escape, and hail Virgo, the Virgin! that's our
woof woof wof wof; wf woooof, wof woof Wooof, wof Woooof! woof'w wof

first love; we marry and think to be happy for aye, when pop comes
wooof woof; wf wooof wof wooof wf wf wooof wof wof, woof wof wooof

Libra, or the Scales--happiness weighed and found wanting; and while we
Wooof, wf wof Woooof--wooooooof wooooof wof wooof wooooof; wof wooof wf

are very sad about that, Lord! how we suddenly jump, as Scorpio, or the
wof woof wof wooof woof, Woof! wof wf woooooof woof, wf Wooooof, wf wof

Scorpion, stings us in the rear; we are curing the wound, when whang
Woooooof, woooof wf wf wof woof; wf wof woooof wof wooof, woof wooof

come the arrows all round; Sagittarius, or the Archer, is amusing
woof wof woooof wof wooof; Wooooooooof, wf wof Woooof, wf wooooof

himself. As we pluck out the shafts, stand aside! here's the
wooooof. Wf wf wooof wof wof woooof, wooof wooof! woof'w wof

battering-ram, Capricornus, or the Goat; full tilt, he comes rushing,
wooooooof-wof, Wooooooooof, wf wof Woof; woof woof, wf wooof wooooof,

and headlong we are tossed; when Aquarius, or the Water-bearer, pours
wof woooooof wf wof woooof; woof Woooooof, wf wof Wooof-woooof, wooof

out his whole deluge and drowns us; and to wind up with Pisces, or the
wof wof wooof woooof wof woooof wf; wof wf woof wf woof Woooof, wf wof

Fishes, we sleep. There's a sermon now, writ in high heaven, and the
Woooof, wf wooof. Wooof'w w woooof wof, woof wf woof woooof, wof wof

sun goes through it every year, and yet comes out of it all alive and
wof woof wooooof wf wooof woof, wof wof wooof wof wf wf wof wooof wof

hearty. Jollily he, aloft there, wheels through toil and trouble; and
woooof. Wooooof wf, wooof wooof, woooof wooooof woof wof wooooof; wof

so, alow here, does jolly Stubb. Oh, jolly's the word for aye! Adieu,
wf, woof woof, woof wooof Wooof. Wf, wooof'w wof woof wof wof! Wooof,

Doubloon! But stop; here comes little King-Post; dodge round the
Woooooof! Wof woof; woof wooof woooof Woof-Woof; wooof wooof wof

try-works, now, and let's hear what he'll have to say. There; he's
wof-wooof, wof, wof wof'w woof woof wf'wf woof wf wof. Wooof; wf'w

before it; he'll out with something presently. So, so; he's beginning."
woooof wf; wf'wf wof woof wooooooof wooooooof. Wf, wf; wf'w wooooooof."




"I see nothing here, but a round thing made of gold, and whoever raises
"W wof wooooof woof, wof w wooof wooof woof wf woof, wof wooooof woooof

a certain whale, this round thing belongs to him. So, what's all this
w wooooof wooof, woof wooof wooof wooooof wf wof. Wf, woof'w wof woof

staring been about? It is worth sixteen dollars, that's true; and at
wooooof woof wooof? Wf wf wooof wooooof wooooof, woof'w woof; wof wf

two cents the cigar, that's nine hundred and sixty cigars. I won't smoke
wof wooof wof wooof, woof'w woof wooooof wof wooof woooof. W wof'w wooof

dirty pipes like Stubb, but I like cigars, and here's nine hundred and
wooof wooof woof Wooof, wof W woof woooof, wof woof'w woof wooooof wof

sixty of them; so here goes Flask aloft to spy 'em out."
wooof wf woof; wf woof woof Wooof wooof wf wof 'wf wof."




"Shall I call that wise or foolish, now; if it be really wise it has a
"Wooof W woof woof woof wf wooooof, wof; wf wf wf woooof woof wf wof w

foolish look to it; yet, if it be really foolish, then has it a sort
wooooof woof wf wf; wof, wf wf wf woooof wooooof, woof wof wf w woof

of wiseish look to it. But, avast; here comes our old Manxman--the old
wf wooooof woof wf wf. Wof, wooof; woof wooof wof wof Wooooof--wof wof

hearse-driver, he must have been, that is, before he took to the sea. He
woooof-woooof, wf woof woof woof, woof wf, woooof wf woof wf wof wof. Wf

luffs up before the doubloon; halloa, and goes round on the other side
wooof wf woooof wof woooooof; woooof, wof woof wooof wf wof wooof woof

of the mast; why, there's a horse-shoe nailed on that side; and now he's
wf wof woof; wof, wooof'w w wooof-woof woooof wf woof woof; wof wof wf'w

back again; what does that mean? Hark! he's muttering--voice like an old
woof wooof; woof woof woof woof? Woof! wf'w wooooooof--wooof woof wf wof

worn-out coffee-mill. Prick ears, and listen!"
woof-wof woooof-woof. Wooof woof, wof woooof!"




"If the White Whale be raised, it must be in a month and a day, when
"Wf wof Wooof Wooof wf woooof, wf woof wf wf w wooof wof w wof, woof

the sun stands in some one of these signs. I've studied signs, and know
wof wof woooof wf woof wof wf wooof wooof. W'wf wooooof wooof, wof woof

their marks; they were taught me two score years ago, by the old witch
wooof wooof; woof woof woooof wf wof wooof wooof wof, wf wof wof wooof

in Copenhagen. Now, in what sign will the sun then be? The horse-shoe
wf Woooooooof. Wof, wf woof woof woof wof wof woof wf? Wof wooof-woof

sign; for there it is, right opposite the gold. And what's the
woof; wof wooof wf wf, wooof woooooof wof woof. Wof woof'w wof

horse-shoe sign? The lion is the horse-shoe sign--the roaring and
wooof-woof woof? Wof woof wf wof wooof-woof woof--wof wooooof wof

devouring lion. Ship, old ship! my old head shakes to think of thee."
wooooooof woof. Woof, wof woof! wf wof woof woooof wf wooof wf woof."




"There's another rendering now; but still one text. All sorts of men
"Wooof'w wooooof wooooooof wof; wof wooof wof woof. Wof wooof wf wof

in one kind of world, you see. Dodge again! here comes Queequeg--all
wf wof woof wf wooof, wof wof. Wooof wooof! woof wooof Woooooof--wof

tattooing--looks like the signs of the Zodiac himself. What says the
wooooooof--wooof woof wof wooof wf wof Woooof wooooof. Woof woof wof

Cannibal? As I live he's comparing notes; looking at his thigh bone;
Woooooof? Wf W woof wf'w wooooooof wooof; wooooof wf wof wooof woof;

thinks the sun is in the thigh, or in the calf, or in the bowels, I
woooof wof wof wf wf wof wooof, wf wf wof woof, wf wf wof woooof, W

suppose, as the old women talk Surgeon's Astronomy in the back country.
wooooof, wf wof wof wooof woof Wooooof'w Wooooooof wf wof woof wooooof.

And by Jove, he's found something there in the vicinity of his thigh--I
Wof wf Woof, wf'w wooof wooooooof wooof wf wof woooooof wf wof wooof--W

guess it's Sagittarius, or the Archer. No: he don't know what to make
wooof wf'w Wooooooooof, wf wof Woooof. Wf: wf wof'w woof woof wf woof

of the doubloon; he takes it for an old button off some king's trowsers.
wf wof woooooof; wf wooof wf wof wf wof woooof wof woof woof'w woooooof.

But, aside again! here comes that ghost-devil, Fedallah; tail coiled out
Wof, wooof wooof! woof wooof woof wooof-wooof, Woooooof; woof woooof wof

of sight as usual, oakum in the toes of his pumps as usual. What does he
wf wooof wf wooof, wooof wf wof woof wf wof wooof wf wooof. Woof woof wf

say, with that look of his? Ah, only makes a sign to the sign and bows
wof, woof woof woof wf wof? Wf, woof wooof w woof wf wof woof wof woof

himself; there is a sun on the coin--fire worshipper, depend upon it.
wooooof; wooof wf w wof wf wof woof--woof woooooooof, woooof woof wf.

Ho! more and more. This way comes Pip--poor boy! would he had died,
Wf! woof wof woof. Woof wof wooof Wof--woof wof! wooof wf wof woof,

or I; he's half horrible to me. He too has been watching all of these
wf W; wf'w woof woooooof wf wf. Wf wof wof woof woooooof wof wf wooof

interpreters--myself included--and look now, he comes to read, with that
woooooooooof--woooof woooooof--wof woof wof, wf wooof wf woof, woof woof

unearthly idiot face. Stand away again and hear him. Hark!"
wooooooof wooof woof. Wooof woof wooof wof woof wof. Woof!"




"I look, you look, he looks; we look, ye look, they look."
"W woof, wof woof, wf wooof; wf woof, wf woof, woof woof."




"Upon my soul, he's been studying Murray's Grammar! Improving his mind,
"Woof wf woof, wf'w woof woooooof Woooof'w Wooooof! Wooooooof wof woof,

poor fellow! But what's that he says now--hist!"
woof woooof! Wof woof'w woof wf woof wof--woof!"




"I look, you look, he looks; we look, ye look, they look."
"W woof, wof woof, wf wooof; wf woof, wf woof, woof woof."




"Why, he's getting it by heart--hist! again."
"Wof, wf'w wooooof wf wf wooof--woof! wooof."




"I look, you look, he looks; we look, ye look, they look."
"W woof, wof woof, wf wooof; wf woof, wf woof, woof woof."




"Well, that's funny."
"Woof, woof'w wooof."




"And I, you, and he; and we, ye, and they, are all bats; and I'm a crow,
"Wof W, wof, wof wf; wof wf, wf, wof woof, wof wof woof; wof W'w w woof,

especially when I stand a'top of this pine tree here. Caw! caw! caw!
woooooooof woof W wooof w'wof wf woof woof woof woof. Wof! wof! wof!

caw! caw! caw! Ain't I a crow? And where's the scare-crow? There he
wof! wof! wof! Wof'w W w woof? Wof wooof'w wof wooof-woof? Wooof wf

stands; two bones stuck into a pair of old trowsers, and two more poked
woooof; wof wooof wooof woof w woof wf wof woooooof, wof wof woof wooof

into the sleeves of an old jacket."
woof wof wooooof wf wf wof woooof."




"Wonder if he means me?--complimentary!--poor lad!--I could go hang
"Woooof wf wf wooof wf?--wooooooooooof!--woof wof!--W wooof wf woof

myself. Any way, for the present, I'll quit Pip's vicinity. I can stand
woooof. Wof wof, wof wof wooooof, W'wf woof Wof'w woooooof. W wof wooof

the rest, for they have plain wits; but he's too crazy-witty for my
wof woof, wof woof woof wooof woof; wof wf'w wof wooof-wooof wof wf

sanity. So, so, I leave him muttering."
woooof. Wf, wf, W wooof wof wooooooof."




"Here's the ship's navel, this doubloon here, and they are all on fire
"Woof'w wof woof'w wooof, woof woooooof woof, wof woof wof wof wf woof

to unscrew it. But, unscrew your navel, and what's the consequence? Then
wf wooooof wf. Wof, wooooof woof wooof, wof woof'w wof wooooooooof? Woof

again, if it stays here, that is ugly, too, for when aught's nailed to
wooof, wf wf wooof woof, woof wf woof, wof, wof woof wooof'w woooof wf

the mast it's a sign that things grow desperate. Ha, ha! old Ahab!
wof woof wf'w w woof woof woooof woof wooooooof. Wf, wf! wof Woof!

the White Whale; he'll nail ye! This is a pine tree. My father, in old
wof Wooof Wooof; wf'wf woof wf! Woof wf w woof woof. Wf woooof, wf wof

Tolland county, cut down a pine tree once, and found a silver ring grown
Wooooof woooof, wof woof w woof woof woof, wof wooof w woooof woof wooof

over in it; some old darkey's wedding ring. How did it get there? And
woof wf wf; woof wof woooof'w wooooof woof. Wof wof wf wof wooof? Wof

so they'll say in the resurrection, when they come to fish up this old
wf woof'wf wof wf wof woooooooooof, woof woof woof wf woof wf woof wof

mast, and find a doubloon lodged in it, with bedded oysters for the
woof, wof woof w woooooof woooof wf wf, woof woooof wooooof wof wof

shaggy bark. Oh, the gold! the precious, precious, gold! the green
woooof woof. Wf, wof woof! wof woooooof, woooooof, woof! wof wooof

miser'll hoard ye soon! Hish! hish! God goes 'mong the worlds
wooof'wf wooof wf woof! Woof! woof! Wof woof 'woof wof woooof

blackberrying. Cook! ho, cook! and cook us! Jenny! hey, hey, hey, hey,
wooooooooooof. Woof! wf, woof! wof woof wf! Wooof! wof, wof, wof, wof,

hey, Jenny, Jenny! and get your hoe-cake done!"
wof, Wooof, Wooof! wof wof woof wof-woof woof!"










CHAPTER 100. Leg and Arm.
WOOOOOF wof. Wof wof Wof.




The Pequod, of Nantucket, Meets the Samuel Enderby, of London.
Wof Woooof, wf Wooooooof, Wooof wof Woooof Wooooof, wf Woooof.







"Ship, ahoy! Hast seen the White Whale?"
"Woof, woof! Woof woof wof Wooof Wooof?"




So cried Ahab, once more hailing a ship showing English colours, bearing
Wf wooof Woof, woof woof wooooof w woof wooooof Wooooof wooooof, wooooof

down under the stern. Trumpet to mouth, the old man was standing in his
woof wooof wof wooof. Wooooof wf wooof, wof wof wof wof woooooof wf wof

hoisted quarter-boat, his ivory leg plainly revealed to the stranger
wooooof wooooof-woof, wof wooof wof wooooof woooooof wf wof woooooof

captain, who was carelessly reclining in his own boat's bow. He was
wooooof, wof wof woooooooof wooooooof wf wof wof woof'w wof. Wf wof

a darkly-tanned, burly, good-natured, fine-looking man, of sixty or
w woooof-woooof, wooof, woof-wooooof, woof-wooooof wof, wf wooof wf

thereabouts, dressed in a spacious roundabout, that hung round him in
wooooooooof, wooooof wf w woooooof woooooooof, woof woof wooof wof wf

festoons of blue pilot-cloth; and one empty arm of this jacket streamed
woooooof wf woof wooof-wooof; wof wof wooof wof wf woof woooof woooooof

behind him like the broidered arm of a hussar's surcoat.
woooof wof woof wof wooooooof wof wf w woooof'w wooooof.




"Hast seen the White Whale!"
"Woof woof wof Wooof Wooof!"




"See you this?" and withdrawing it from the folds that had hidden it,
"Wof wof woof?" wof wooooooooof wf woof wof wooof woof wof woooof wf,

he held up a white arm of sperm whale bone, terminating in a wooden head
wf woof wf w wooof wof wf wooof wooof woof, wooooooooof wf w woooof woof

like a mallet.
woof w woooof.




"Man my boat!" cried Ahab, impetuously, and tossing about the oars near
"Wof wf woof!" wooof Woof, wooooooooof, wof wooooof wooof wof woof woof

him--"Stand by to lower!"
wof--"Wooof wf wf wooof!"




In less than a minute, without quitting his little craft, he and his
Wf woof woof w woooof, wooooof woooooof wof woooof wooof, wf wof wof

crew were dropped to the water, and were soon alongside of the stranger.
woof woof wooooof wf wof wooof, wof woof woof wooooooof wf wof woooooof.

But here a curious difficulty presented itself. In the excitement of the
Wof woof w wooooof woooooooof wooooooof woooof. Wf wof woooooooof wf wof

moment, Ahab had forgotten that since the loss of his leg he had never
woooof, Woof wof wooooooof woof wooof wof woof wf wof wof wf wof wooof

once stepped on board of any vessel at sea but his own, and then it was
woof wooooof wf wooof wf wof woooof wf wof wof wof wof, wof woof wf wof

always by an ingenious and very handy mechanical contrivance peculiar to
woooof wf wf wooooooof wof woof wooof woooooooof wooooooooof woooooof wf

the Pequod, and a thing not to be rigged and shipped in any other
wof Woooof, wof w wooof wof wf wf woooof wof wooooof wf wof wooof

vessel at a moment's warning. Now, it is no very easy matter
woooof wf w woooof'w wooooof. Wof, wf wf wf woof woof woooof

for anybody--except those who are almost hourly used to it, like
wof wooooof--woooof wooof wof wof woooof woooof woof wf wf, woof

whalemen--to clamber up a ship's side from a boat on the open sea; for
woooooof--wf wooooof wf w woof'w woof woof w woof wf wof woof wof; wof

the great swells now lift the boat high up towards the bulwarks, and
wof wooof woooof wof woof wof woof woof wf wooooof wof woooooof, wof

then instantaneously drop it half way down to the kelson. So, deprived
woof wooooooooooooof woof wf woof wof woof wf wof woooof. Wf, woooooof

of one leg, and the strange ship of course being altogether unsupplied
wf wof wof, wof wof wooooof woof wf woooof wooof woooooooof woooooooof

with the kindly invention, Ahab now found himself abjectly reduced to a
woof wof woooof wooooooof, Woof wof wooof wooooof woooooof wooooof wf w

clumsy landsman again; hopelessly eyeing the uncertain changeful height
woooof woooooof wooof; woooooooof woooof wof wooooooof wooooooof woooof

he could hardly hope to attain.
wf wooof woooof woof wf woooof.




It has before been hinted, perhaps, that every little untoward
Wf wof woooof woof woooof, wooooof, woof wooof woooof woooooof

circumstance that befell him, and which indirectly sprang from his
woooooooooof woof woooof wof, wof wooof woooooooof woooof woof wof

luckless mishap, almost invariably irritated or exasperated Ahab. And
woooooof woooof, woooof woooooooof wooooooof wf wooooooooof Woof. Wof

in the present instance, all this was heightened by the sight of the
wf wof wooooof woooooof, wof woof wof woooooooof wf wof wooof wf wof

two officers of the strange ship, leaning over the side, by the
wof woooooof wf wof wooooof woof, wooooof woof wof woof, wf wof

perpendicular ladder of nailed cleets there, and swinging towards him a
wooooooooooof woooof wf woooof woooof wooof, wof woooooof wooooof wof w

pair of tastefully-ornamented man-ropes; for at first they did not seem
woof wf woooooooof-woooooooof wof-wooof; wof wf wooof woof wof wof woof

to bethink them that a one-legged man must be too much of a cripple to
wf wooooof woof woof w wof-woooof wof woof wf wof woof wf w wooooof wf

use their sea bannisters. But this awkwardness only lasted a minute,
wof wooof wof woooooooof. Wof woof wooooooooof woof woooof w woooof,

because the strange captain, observing at a glance how affairs stood,
wooooof wof wooooof wooooof, wooooooof wf w woooof wof wooooof wooof,

cried out, "I see, I see!--avast heaving there! Jump, boys, and swing
wooof wof, "W wof, W wof!--wooof wooooof wooof! Woof, woof, wof wooof

over the cutting-tackle."
woof wof wooooof-woooof."




As good luck would have it, they had had a whale alongside a day or two
Wf woof woof wooof woof wf, woof wof wof w wooof wooooooof w wof wf wof

previous, and the great tackles were still aloft, and the massive curved
woooooof, wof wof wooof wooooof woof wooof wooof, wof wof wooooof woooof

blubber-hook, now clean and dry, was still attached to the end. This
wooooof-woof, wof wooof wof wof, wof wooof woooooof wf wof wof. Woof

was quickly lowered to Ahab, who at once comprehending it all, slid his
wof wooooof wooooof wf Woof, wof wf woof wooooooooooof wf wof, woof wof

solitary thigh into the curve of the hook (it was like sitting in the
woooooof wooof woof wof wooof wf wof woof (wf wof woof wooooof wf wof

fluke of an anchor, or the crotch of an apple tree), and then giving the
wooof wf wf woooof, wf wof woooof wf wf wooof woof), wof woof woooof wof

word, held himself fast, and at the same time also helped to hoist his
woof, woof wooooof woof, wof wf wof woof woof woof woooof wf wooof wof

own weight, by pulling hand-over-hand upon one of the running parts of
wof woooof, wf wooooof woof-woof-woof woof wof wf wof wooooof wooof wf

the tackle. Soon he was carefully swung inside the high bulwarks, and
wof woooof. Woof wf wof wooooooof wooof woooof wof woof woooooof, wof

gently landed upon the capstan head. With his ivory arm frankly thrust
woooof woooof woof wof wooooof woof. Woof wof wooof wof wooooof woooof

forth in welcome, the other captain advanced, and Ahab, putting out his
wooof wf wooooof, wof wooof wooooof woooooof, wof Woof, wooooof wof wof

ivory leg, and crossing the ivory arm (like two sword-fish blades)
wooof wof, wof woooooof wof wooof wof (woof wof wooof-woof woooof)

cried out in his walrus way, "Aye, aye, hearty! let us shake bones
wooof wof wf wof woooof wof, "Wof, wof, woooof! wof wf wooof wooof

together!--an arm and a leg!--an arm that never can shrink, d'ye
woooooof!--wf wof wof w wof!--wf wof woof wooof wof woooof, w'wf

see; and a leg that never can run. Where did'st thou see the White
wof; wof w wof woof wooof wof wof. Wooof wof'wf woof wof wof Wooof

Whale?--how long ago?"
Wooof?--wof woof wof?"




"The White Whale," said the Englishman, pointing his ivory arm towards
"Wof Wooof Wooof," woof wof Woooooooof, woooooof wof wooof wof wooooof

the East, and taking a rueful sight along it, as if it had been a
wof Woof, wof woooof w woooof wooof wooof wf, wf wf wf wof woof w

telescope; "there I saw him, on the Line, last season."
wooooooof; "wooof W wof wof, wf wof Woof, woof woooof."




"And he took that arm off, did he?" asked Ahab, now sliding down from
"Wof wf woof woof wof wof, wof wf?" wooof Woof, wof wooooof woof woof

the capstan, and resting on the Englishman's shoulder, as he did so.
wof wooooof, wof wooooof wf wof Woooooooof'w woooooof, wf wf wof wf.




"Aye, he was the cause of it, at least; and that leg, too?"
"Wof, wf wof wof wooof wf wf, wf wooof; wof woof wof, wof?"




"Spin me the yarn," said Ahab; "how was it?"
"Woof wf wof woof," woof Woof; "wof wof wf?"




"It was the first time in my life that I ever cruised on the Line,"
"Wf wof wof wooof woof wf wf woof woof W woof wooooof wf wof Woof,"

began the Englishman. "I was ignorant of the White Whale at that time.
wooof wof Woooooooof. "W wof woooooof wf wof Wooof Wooof wf woof woof.

Well, one day we lowered for a pod of four or five whales, and my boat
Woof, wof wof wf wooooof wof w wof wf woof wf woof woooof, wof wf woof

fastened to one of them; a regular circus horse he was, too, that went
woooooof wf wof wf woof; w wooooof woooof wooof wf wof, wof, woof woof

milling and milling round so, that my boat's crew could only trim dish,
wooooof wof wooooof wooof wf, woof wf woof'w woof wooof woof woof woof,

by sitting all their sterns on the outer gunwale. Presently up breaches
wf wooooof wof wooof woooof wf wof wooof wooooof. Wooooooof wf woooooof

from the bottom of the sea a bouncing great whale, with a milky-white
woof wof woooof wf wof wof w woooooof wooof wooof, woof w wooof-wooof

head and hump, all crows' feet and wrinkles."
woof wof woof, wof wooof' woof wof woooooof."




"It was he, it was he!" cried Ahab, suddenly letting out his suspended
"Wf wof wf, wf wof wf!" wooof Woof, woooooof wooooof wof wof wooooooof

breath.
woooof.




"And harpoons sticking in near his starboard fin."
"Wof woooooof woooooof wf woof wof wooooooof wof."




"Aye, aye--they were mine--MY irons," cried Ahab, exultingly--"but on!"
"Wof, wof--woof woof woof--WF wooof," wooof Woof, woooooooof--"wof wf!"




"Give me a chance, then," said the Englishman, good-humoredly. "Well,
"Woof wf w woooof, woof," woof wof Woooooooof, woof-wooooooof. "Woof,

this old great-grandfather, with the white head and hump, runs all afoam
woof wof wooof-wooooooooof, woof wof wooof woof wof woof, woof wof wooof

into the pod, and goes to snapping furiously at my fast-line!
woof wof wof, wof woof wf woooooof wooooooof wf wf woof-woof!




"Aye, I see!--wanted to part it; free the fast-fish--an old trick--I
"Wof, W wof!--woooof wf woof wf; woof wof woof-woof--wf wof wooof--W

know him."
woof wof."




"How it was exactly," continued the one-armed commander, "I do not know;
"Wof wf wof wooooof," wooooooof wof wof-wooof wooooooof, "W wf wof woof;

but in biting the line, it got foul of his teeth, caught there somehow;
wof wf woooof wof woof, wf wof woof wf wof wooof, woooof wooof wooooof;

but we didn't know it then; so that when we afterwards pulled on the
wof wf woof'w woof wf woof; wf woof woof wf woooooooof woooof wf wof

line, bounce we came plump on to his hump! instead of the other whale's;
woof, woooof wf woof wooof wf wf wof woof! wooooof wf wof wooof wooof'w;

that went off to windward, all fluking. Seeing how matters stood, and
woof woof wof wf woooooof, wof wooooof. Woooof wof wooooof wooof, wof

what a noble great whale it was--the noblest and biggest I ever saw,
woof w wooof wooof wooof wf wof--wof wooooof wof wooooof W woof wof,

sir, in my life--I resolved to capture him, spite of the boiling rage
wof, wf wf woof--W woooooof wf wooooof wof, wooof wf wof wooooof woof

he seemed to be in. And thinking the hap-hazard line would get loose, or
wf woooof wf wf wf. Wof woooooof wof wof-woooof woof wooof wof wooof, wf

the tooth it was tangled to might draw (for I have a devil of a boat's
wof wooof wf wof wooooof wf wooof woof (wof W woof w wooof wf w woof'w

crew for a pull on a whale-line); seeing all this, I say, I jumped
woof wof w woof wf w wooof-woof); woooof wof woof, W wof, W woooof

into my first mate's boat--Mr. Mounttop's here (by the way,
woof wf wooof woof'w woof--Wf. Woooooof'w woof (wf wof wof,

Captain--Mounttop; Mounttop--the captain);--as I was saying, I jumped
Wooooof--Woooooof; Woooooof--wof wooooof);--wf W wof woooof, W woooof

into Mounttop's boat, which, d'ye see, was gunwale and gunwale
woof Woooooof'w woof, wooof, w'wf wof, wof wooooof wof wooooof

with mine, then; and snatching the first harpoon, let this old
woof woof, woof; wof wooooooof wof wooof wooooof, wof woof wof

great-grandfather have it. But, Lord, look you, sir--hearts and souls
wooof-wooooooooof woof wf. Wof, Woof, woof wof, wof--woooof wof wooof

alive, man--the next instant, in a jiff, I was blind as a bat--both
wooof, wof--wof woof wooooof, wf w woof, W wof wooof wf w wof--woof

eyes out--all befogged and bedeadened with black foam--the whale's tail
woof wof--wof woooooof wof woooooooof woof wooof woof--wof wooof'w woof

looming straight up out of it, perpendicular in the air, like a marble
wooooof woooooof wf wof wf wf, wooooooooooof wf wof wof, woof w woooof

steeple. No use sterning all, then; but as I was groping at midday, with
wooooof. Wf wof woooooof wof, woof; wof wf W wof wooooof wf woooof, woof

a blinding sun, all crown-jewels; as I was groping, I say, after the
w woooooof wof, wof wooof-woooof; wf W wof wooooof, W wof, wooof wof

second iron, to toss it overboard--down comes the tail like a Lima
woooof woof, wf woof wf wooooooof--woof wooof wof woof woof w Woof

tower, cutting my boat in two, leaving each half in splinters; and,
wooof, wooooof wf woof wf wof, wooooof woof woof wf wooooooof; wof,

flukes first, the white hump backed through the wreck, as though it was
woooof wooof, wof wooof woof woooof wooooof wof wooof, wf woooof wf wof

all chips. We all struck out. To escape his terrible flailings, I seized
wof wooof. Wf wof woooof wof. Wf woooof wof woooooof wooooooof, W woooof

hold of my harpoon-pole sticking in him, and for a moment clung to that
woof wf wf wooooof-woof woooooof wf wof, wof wof w woooof wooof wf woof

like a sucking fish. But a combing sea dashed me off, and at the same
woof w wooooof woof. Wof w wooooof wof woooof wf wof, wof wf wof woof

instant, the fish, taking one good dart forwards, went down like a
wooooof, wof woof, woooof wof woof woof woooooof, woof woof woof w

flash; and the barb of that cursed second iron towing along near me
wooof; wof wof woof wf woof woooof woooof woof woooof wooof woof wf

caught me here" (clapping his hand just below his shoulder); "yes,
woooof wf woof" (woooooof wof woof woof wooof wof woooooof); "wof,

caught me just here, I say, and bore me down to Hell's flames, I was
woooof wf woof woof, W wof, wof woof wf woof wf Woof'w woooof, W wof

thinking; when, when, all of a sudden, thank the good God, the barb ript
woooooof; woof, woof, wof wf w woooof, wooof wof woof Wof, wof woof woof

its way along the flesh--clear along the whole length of my arm--came
wof wof wooof wof wooof--wooof wooof wof wooof woooof wf wf wof--woof

out nigh my wrist, and up I floated;--and that gentleman there will tell
wof woof wf wooof, wof wf W wooooof;--wof woof wooooooof wooof woof woof

you the rest (by the way, captain--Dr. Bunger, ship's surgeon: Bunger,
wof wof woof (wf wof wof, wooooof--Wf. Woooof, woof'w wooooof: Woooof,

my lad,--the captain). Now, Bunger boy, spin your part of the yarn."
wf wof,--wof wooooof). Wof, Woooof wof, woof woof woof wf wof woof."




The professional gentleman thus familiarly pointed out, had been all the
Wof woooooooooof wooooooof woof woooooooof wooooof wof, wof woof wof wof

time standing near them, with nothing specific visible, to denote his
woof woooooof woof woof, woof wooooof woooooof wooooof, wf woooof wof

gentlemanly rank on board. His face was an exceedingly round but sober
wooooooooof woof wf wooof. Wof woof wof wf wooooooooof wooof wof wooof

one; he was dressed in a faded blue woollen frock or shirt, and patched
wof; wf wof wooooof wf w wooof woof wooooof wooof wf wooof, wof wooooof

trowsers; and had thus far been dividing his attention between a
woooooof; wof wof woof wof woof woooooof wof wooooooof wooooof w

marlingspike he held in one hand, and a pill-box held in the other,
woooooooooof wf woof wf wof woof, wof w woof-wof woof wf wof wooof,

occasionally casting a critical glance at the ivory limbs of the two
woooooooooof wooooof w woooooof woooof wf wof wooof wooof wf wof wof

crippled captains. But, at his superior's introduction of him to Ahab,
woooooof woooooof. Wof, wf wof woooooof'w woooooooooof wf wof wf Woof,

he politely bowed, and straightway went on to do his captain's bidding.
wf woooooof wooof, wof wooooooooof woof wf wf wf wof wooooof'w wooooof.




"It was a shocking bad wound," began the whale-surgeon; "and, taking my
"Wf wof w woooooof wof wooof," wooof wof wooof-wooooof; "wof, woooof wf

advice, Captain Boomer here, stood our old Sammy--"
woooof, Wooooof Woooof woof, wooof wof wof Wooof--"




"Samuel Enderby is the name of my ship," interrupted the one-armed
"Woooof Wooooof wf wof woof wf wf woof," wooooooooof wof wof-wooof

captain, addressing Ahab; "go on, boy."
wooooof, woooooooof Woof; "wf wf, wof."




"Stood our old Sammy off to the northward, to get out of the blazing hot
"Wooof wof wof Wooof wof wf wof wooooooof, wf wof wof wf wof wooooof wof

weather there on the Line. But it was no use--I did all I could; sat up
wooooof wooof wf wof Woof. Wof wf wof wf wof--W wof wof W wooof; wof wf

with him nights; was very severe with him in the matter of diet--"
woof wof woooof; wof woof woooof woof wof wf wof woooof wf woof--"




"Oh, very severe!" chimed in the patient himself; then suddenly altering
"Wf, woof woooof!" woooof wf wof wooooof wooooof; woof woooooof woooooof

his voice, "Drinking hot rum toddies with me every night, till he
wof wooof, "Woooooof wof wof wooooof woof wf wooof wooof, woof wf

couldn't see to put on the bandages; and sending me to bed, half seas
woooof'w wof wf wof wf wof woooooof; wof wooooof wf wf wof, woof woof

over, about three o'clock in the morning. Oh, ye stars! he sat up with
woof, wooof wooof w'wooof wf wof wooooof. Wf, wf wooof! wf wof wf woof

me indeed, and was very severe in my diet. Oh! a great watcher, and very
wf woooof, wof wof woof woooof wf wf woof. Wf! w wooof wooooof, wof woof

dietetically severe, is Dr. Bunger. (Bunger, you dog, laugh out! why
woooooooooof woooof, wf Wf. Woooof. (Woooof, wof wof, wooof wof! wof

don't ye? You know you're a precious jolly rascal.) But, heave ahead,
wof'w wf? Wof woof wof'wf w woooooof wooof woooof.) Wof, wooof wooof,

boy, I'd rather be killed by you than kept alive by any other man."
wof, W'w woooof wf woooof wf wof woof woof wooof wf wof wooof wof."




"My captain, you must have ere this perceived, respected sir"--said the
"Wf wooooof, wof woof woof wof woof wooooooof, wooooooof wof"--woof wof

imperturbable godly-looking Bunger, slightly bowing to Ahab--"is apt to
wooooooooooof wooof-wooooof Woooof, woooooof woooof wf Woof--"wf wof wf

be facetious at times; he spins us many clever things of that sort. But
wf wooooooof wf wooof; wf wooof wf woof woooof woooof wf woof woof. Wof

I may as well say--en passant, as the French remark--that I myself--that
W wof wf woof wof--wf wooooof, wf wof Woooof woooof--woof W woooof--woof

is to say, Jack Bunger, late of the reverend clergy--am a strict total
wf wf wof, Woof Woooof, woof wf wof woooooof woooof--wf w woooof wooof

abstinence man; I never drink--"
woooooooof wof; W wooof wooof--"




"Water!" cried the captain; "he never drinks it; it's a sort of fits to
"Wooof!" wooof wof wooooof; "wf wooof woooof wf; wf'w w woof wf woof wf

him; fresh water throws him into the hydrophobia; but go on--go on with
wof; wooof wooof woooof wof woof wof wooooooooof; wof wf wf--wf wf woof

the arm story."
wof wof wooof."




"Yes, I may as well," said the surgeon, coolly. "I was about observing,
"Wof, W wof wf woof," woof wof wooooof, woooof. "W wof wooof wooooooof,

sir, before Captain Boomer's facetious interruption, that spite of my
wof, woooof Wooooof Woooof'w wooooooof woooooooooof, woof wooof wf wf

best and severest endeavors, the wound kept getting worse and worse; the
woof wof woooooof wooooooof, wof wooof woof wooooof wooof wof wooof; wof

truth was, sir, it was as ugly gaping wound as surgeon ever saw; more
wooof wof, wof, wf wof wf woof woooof wooof wf wooooof woof wof; woof

than two feet and several inches long. I measured it with the lead line.
woof wof woof wof wooooof woooof woof. W woooooof wf woof wof woof woof.

In short, it grew black; I knew what was threatened, and off it came.
Wf wooof, wf woof wooof; W woof woof wof woooooooof, wof wof wf woof.

But I had no hand in shipping that ivory arm there; that thing is
Wof W wof wf woof wf woooooof woof wooof wof wooof; woof wooof wf

against all rule"--pointing at it with the marlingspike--"that is the
wooooof wof woof"--woooooof wf wf woof wof woooooooooof--"woof wf wof

captain's work, not mine; he ordered the carpenter to make it; he had
wooooof'w woof, wof woof; wf wooooof wof wooooooof wf woof wf; wf wof

that club-hammer there put to the end, to knock some one's brains
woof woof-woooof wooof wof wf wof wof, wf wooof woof wof'w woooof

out with, I suppose, as he tried mine once. He flies into diabolical
wof woof, W wooooof, wf wf wooof woof woof. Wf wooof woof woooooooof

passions sometimes. Do ye see this dent, sir"--removing his hat, and
woooooof wooooooof. Wf wf wof woof woof, wof"--woooooof wof wof, wof

brushing aside his hair, and exposing a bowl-like cavity in his skull,
woooooof wooof wof woof, wof woooooof w woof-woof woooof wf wof wooof,

but which bore not the slightest scarry trace, or any token of ever
wof wooof woof wof wof wooooooof woooof wooof, wf wof wooof wf woof

having been a wound--"Well, the captain there will tell you how that
woooof woof w wooof--"Woof, wof wooooof wooof woof woof wof wof woof

came here; he knows."
woof woof; wf wooof."




"No, I don't," said the captain, "but his mother did; he was born with
"Wf, W wof'w," woof wof wooooof, "wof wof woooof wof; wf wof woof woof

it. Oh, you solemn rogue, you--you Bunger! was there ever such another
wf. Wf, wof woooof wooof, wof--wof Woooof! wof wooof woof woof wooooof

Bunger in the watery world? Bunger, when you die, you ought to die in
Woooof wf wof woooof wooof? Woooof, woof wof wof, wof wooof wf wof wf

pickle, you dog; you should be preserved to future ages, you rascal."
woooof, wof wof; wof woooof wf wooooooof wf woooof woof, wof woooof."




"What became of the White Whale?" now cried Ahab, who thus far had been
"Woof woooof wf wof Wooof Wooof?" wof wooof Woof, wof woof wof wof woof

impatiently listening to this by-play between the two Englishmen.
wooooooooof wooooooof wf woof wf-woof wooooof wof wof Woooooooof.




"Oh!" cried the one-armed captain, "oh, yes! Well; after he sounded,
"Wf!" wooof wof wof-wooof wooooof, "wf, wof! Woof; wooof wf wooooof,

we didn't see him again for some time; in fact, as I before hinted, I
wf woof'w wof wof wooof wof woof woof; wf woof, wf W woooof woooof, W

didn't then know what whale it was that had served me such a trick, till
woof'w woof woof woof wooof wf wof woof wof woooof wf woof w wooof, woof

some time afterwards, when coming back to the Line, we heard about Moby
woof woof woooooooof, woof woooof woof wf wof Woof, wf wooof wooof Woof

Dick--as some call him--and then I knew it was he."
Woof--wf woof woof wof--wof woof W woof wf wof wf."




"Did'st thou cross his wake again?"
"Wof'wf woof wooof wof woof wooof?"




"Twice."
"Wooof."




"But could not fasten?"
"Wof wooof wof woooof?"




"Didn't want to try to: ain't one limb enough? What should I do without
"Woof'w woof wf wof wf: wof'w wof woof woooof? Woof woooof W wf wooooof

this other arm? And I'm thinking Moby Dick doesn't bite so much as he
woof wooof wof? Wof W'w woooooof Woof Woof wooof'w woof wf woof wf wf

swallows."
woooooof."




"Well, then," interrupted Bunger, "give him your left arm for bait to
"Woof, woof," wooooooooof Woooof, "woof wof woof woof wof wof woof wf

get the right. Do you know, gentlemen"--very gravely and mathematically
wof wof wooof. Wf wof woof, wooooooof"--woof wooooof wof woooooooooooof

bowing to each Captain in succession--"Do you know, gentlemen, that the
woooof wf woof Wooooof wf woooooooof--"Wf wof woof, wooooooof, woof wof

digestive organs of the whale are so inscrutably constructed by Divine
wooooooof woooof wf wof wooof wof wf wooooooooof wooooooooof wf Woooof

Providence, that it is quite impossible for him to completely digest
Woooooooof, woof wf wf wooof woooooooof wof wof wf woooooooof woooof

even a man's arm? And he knows it too. So that what you take for the
woof w wof'w wof? Wof wf wooof wf wof. Wf woof woof wof woof wof wof

White Whale's malice is only his awkwardness. For he never means
Wooof Wooof'w woooof wf woof wof wooooooooof. Wof wf wooof wooof

to swallow a single limb; he only thinks to terrify by feints. But
wf wooooof w woooof woof; wf woof woooof wf wooooof wf woooof. Wof

sometimes he is like the old juggling fellow, formerly a patient of mine
wooooooof wf wf woof wof wof woooooof woooof, woooooof w wooooof wf woof

in Ceylon, that making believe swallow jack-knives, once upon a time let
wf Woooof, woof woooof wooooof wooooof woof-woooof, woof woof w woof wof

one drop into him in good earnest, and there it stayed for a twelvemonth
wof woof woof wof wf woof wooooof, wof wooof wf woooof wof w wooooooooof

or more; when I gave him an emetic, and he heaved it up in small tacks,
wf woof; woof W woof wof wf woooof, wof wf woooof wf wf wf wooof wooof,

d'ye see. No possible way for him to digest that jack-knife, and fully
w'wf wof. Wf woooooof wof wof wof wf woooof woof woof-wooof, wof wooof

incorporate it into his general bodily system. Yes, Captain Boomer, if
wooooooooof wf woof wof wooooof woooof woooof. Wof, Wooooof Woooof, wf

you are quick enough about it, and have a mind to pawn one arm for the
wof wof wooof woooof wooof wf, wof woof w woof wf woof wof wof wof wof

sake of the privilege of giving decent burial to the other, why in that
woof wf wof wooooooof wf woooof woooof woooof wf wof wooof, wof wf woof

case the arm is yours; only let the whale have another chance at you
woof wof wof wf wooof; woof wof wof wooof woof wooooof woooof wf wof

shortly, that's all."
wooooof, woof'w wof."




"No, thank ye, Bunger," said the English Captain, "he's welcome to the
"Wf, wooof wf, Woooof," woof wof Wooooof Wooooof, "wf'w wooooof wf wof

arm he has, since I can't help it, and didn't know him then; but not to
wof wf wof, wooof W wof'w woof wf, wof woof'w woof wof woof; wof wof wf

another one. No more White Whales for me; I've lowered for him once, and
wooooof wof. Wf woof Wooof Woooof wof wf; W'wf wooooof wof wof woof, wof

that has satisfied me. There would be great glory in killing him, I know
woof wof wooooooof wf. Wooof wooof wf wooof wooof wf wooooof wof, W woof

that; and there is a ship-load of precious sperm in him, but, hark ye,
woof; wof wooof wf w woof-woof wf woooooof wooof wf wof, wof, woof wf,

he's best let alone; don't you think so, Captain?"--glancing at the
wf'w woof wof wooof; wof'w wof wooof wf, Wooooof?"--woooooof wf wof

ivory leg.
wooof wof.




"He is. But he will still be hunted, for all that. What is best let
"Wf wf. Wof wf woof wooof wf woooof, wof wof woof. Woof wf woof wof

alone, that accursed thing is not always what least allures. He's all a
wooof, woof woooooof wooof wf wof woooof woof wooof wooooof. Wf'w wof w

magnet! How long since thou saw'st him last? Which way heading?"
woooof! Wof woof wooof woof wof'wf wof woof? Wooof wof wooooof?"




"Bless my soul, and curse the foul fiend's," cried Bunger, stoopingly
"Wooof wf woof, wof wooof wof woof wooof'w," wooof Woooof, woooooooof

walking round Ahab, and like a dog, strangely snuffing; "this man's
wooooof wooof Woof, wof woof w wof, wooooooof woooooof; "woof wof'w

blood--bring the thermometer!--it's at the boiling point!--his pulse
wooof--wooof wof wooooooooof!--wf'w wf wof wooooof wooof!--wof wooof

makes these planks beat!--sir!"--taking a lancet from his pocket, and
wooof wooof woooof woof!--wof!"--woooof w woooof woof wof woooof, wof

drawing near to Ahab's arm.
wooooof woof wf Woof'w wof.




"Avast!" roared Ahab, dashing him against the bulwarks--"Man the boat!
"Wooof!" woooof Woof, wooooof wof wooooof wof woooooof--"Wof wof woof!

Which way heading?"
Wooof wof wooooof?"




"Good God!" cried the English Captain, to whom the question was put.
"Woof Wof!" wooof wof Wooooof Wooooof, wf woof wof woooooof wof wof.

"What's the matter? He was heading east, I think.--Is your Captain
"Woof'w wof woooof? Wf wof wooooof woof, W wooof.--Wf woof Wooooof

crazy?" whispering Fedallah.
wooof?" woooooooof Woooooof.




But Fedallah, putting a finger on his lip, slid over the bulwarks to
Wof Woooooof, wooooof w woooof wf wof wof, woof woof wof woooooof wf

take the boat's steering oar, and Ahab, swinging the cutting-tackle
woof wof woof'w woooooof wof, wof Woof, woooooof wof wooooof-woooof

towards him, commanded the ship's sailors to stand by to lower.
wooooof wof, wooooooof wof woof'w wooooof wf wooof wf wf wooof.




In a moment he was standing in the boat's stern, and the Manilla men
Wf w woooof wf wof woooooof wf wof woof'w wooof, wof wof Wooooof wof

were springing to their oars. In vain the English Captain hailed him.
woof wooooooof wf wooof woof. Wf woof wof Wooooof Wooooof woooof wof.

With back to the stranger ship, and face set like a flint to his own,
Woof woof wf wof woooooof woof, wof woof wof woof w wooof wf wof wof,

Ahab stood upright till alongside of the Pequod.
Woof wooof wooooof woof wooooooof wf wof Woooof.










CHAPTER 101. The Decanter.
WOOOOOF wof. Wof Woooooof.







Ere the English ship fades from sight, be it set down here, that
Wof wof Wooooof woof wooof woof wooof, wf wf wof woof woof, woof

she hailed from London, and was named after the late Samuel Enderby,
wof woooof woof Woooof, wof wof wooof wooof wof woof Woooof Wooooof,

merchant of that city, the original of the famous whaling house of
woooooof wf woof woof, wof woooooof wf wof woooof wooooof wooof wf

Enderby & Sons; a house which in my poor whaleman's opinion, comes not
Wooooof & Woof; w wooof wooof wf wf woof woooooof'w wooooof, wooof wof

far behind the united royal houses of the Tudors and Bourbons, in point
wof woooof wof woooof wooof woooof wf wof Woooof wof Woooooof, wf wooof

of real historical interest. How long, prior to the year of our
wf woof woooooooof woooooof. Wof woof, wooof wf wof woof wf wof

Lord 1775, this great whaling house was in existence, my numerous
Woof woof, woof wooof wooooof wooof wof wf wooooooof, wf woooooof

fish-documents do not make plain; but in that year (1775) it fitted
woof-wooooooof wf wof woof wooof; wof wf woof woof (woof) wf woooof

out the first English ships that ever regularly hunted the Sperm Whale;
wof wof wooof Wooooof wooof woof woof wooooooof woooof wof Wooof Wooof;

though for some score of years previous (ever since 1726) our valiant
woooof wof woof wooof wf wooof woooooof (woof wooof woof) wof wooooof

Coffins and Maceys of Nantucket and the Vineyard had in large fleets
Wooooof wof Woooof wf Wooooooof wof wof Woooooof wof wf wooof woooof

pursued that Leviathan, but only in the North and South Atlantic: not
wooooof woof Wooooooof, wof woof wf wof Wooof wof Wooof Woooooof: wof

elsewhere. Be it distinctly recorded here, that the Nantucketers were
wooooooof. Wf wf woooooooof woooooof woof, woof wof Woooooooooof woof

the first among mankind to harpoon with civilized steel the great Sperm
wof wooof wooof wooooof wf wooooof woof wooooooof wooof wof wooof Wooof

Whale; and that for half a century they were the only people of the
Wooof; wof woof wof woof w wooooof woof woof wof woof woooof wf wof

whole globe who so harpooned him.
wooof wooof wof wf wooooooof wof.




In 1778, a fine ship, the Amelia, fitted out for the express purpose,
Wf woof, w woof woof, wof Woooof, woooof wof wof wof wooooof wooooof,

and at the sole charge of the vigorous Enderbys, boldly rounded Cape
wof wf wof woof woooof wf wof woooooof Woooooof, woooof wooooof Woof

Horn, and was the first among the nations to lower a whale-boat of any
Woof, wof wof wof wooof wooof wof wooooof wf wooof w wooof-woof wf wof

sort in the great South Sea. The voyage was a skilful and lucky one;
woof wf wof wooof Wooof Wof. Wof woooof wof w wooooof wof wooof wof;

and returning to her berth with her hold full of the precious sperm, the
wof wooooooof wf wof wooof woof wof woof woof wf wof woooooof wooof, wof

Amelia's example was soon followed by other ships, English and American,
Woooof'w wooooof wof woof woooooof wf wooof wooof, Wooooof wof Woooooof,

and thus the vast Sperm Whale grounds of the Pacific were thrown open.
wof woof wof woof Wooof Wooof wooooof wf wof Wooooof woof woooof woof.

But not content with this good deed, the indefatigable house again
Wof wof wooooof woof woof woof woof, wof wooooooooooof wooof wooof

bestirred itself: Samuel and all his Sons--how many, their mother only
wooooooof woooof: Woooof wof wof wof Woof--wof woof, wooof woooof woof

knows--and under their immediate auspices, and partly, I think, at their
wooof--wof wooof wooof wooooooof woooooof, wof woooof, W wooof, wf wooof

expense, the British government was induced to send the sloop-of-war
wooooof, wof Wooooof woooooooof wof wooooof wf woof wof wooof-wf-wof

Rattler on a whaling voyage of discovery into the South Sea. Commanded
Wooooof wf w wooooof woooof wf wooooooof woof wof Wooof Wof. Wooooooof

by a naval Post-Captain, the Rattler made a rattling voyage of it, and
wf w wooof Woof-Wooooof, wof Wooooof woof w woooooof woooof wf wf, wof

did some service; how much does not appear. But this is not all. In
wof woof wooooof; wof woof woof wof woooof. Wof woof wf wof wof. Wf

1819, the same house fitted out a discovery whale ship of their own, to
woof, wof woof wooof woooof wof w wooooooof wooof woof wf wooof wof, wf

go on a tasting cruise to the remote waters of Japan. That ship--well
wf wf w wooooof woooof wf wof woooof woooof wf Wooof. Woof woof--woof

called the "Syren"--made a noble experimental cruise; and it was thus
woooof wof "Wooof"--woof w wooof woooooooooof woooof; wof wf wof woof

that the great Japanese Whaling Ground first became generally known.
woof wof wooof Woooooof Wooooof Woooof wooof woooof wooooooof wooof.

The Syren in this famous voyage was commanded by a Captain Coffin, a
Wof Wooof wf woof woooof woooof wof wooooooof wf w Wooooof Woooof, w

Nantucketer.
Wooooooooof.




All honour to the Enderbies, therefore, whose house, I think, exists to
Wof woooof wf wof Wooooooof, wooooooof, wooof wooof, W wooof, woooof wf

the present day; though doubtless the original Samuel must long ago have
wof wooooof wof; woooof wooooooof wof woooooof Woooof woof woof wof woof

slipped his cable for the great South Sea of the other world.
wooooof wof wooof wof wof wooof Wooof Wof wf wof wooof wooof.




The ship named after him was worthy of the honour, being a very fast
Wof woof wooof wooof wof wof woooof wf wof woooof, wooof w woof woof

sailer and a noble craft every way. I boarded her once at midnight
woooof wof w wooof wooof wooof wof. W wooooof wof woof wf woooooof

somewhere off the Patagonian coast, and drank good flip down in the
wooooooof wof wof Woooooooof wooof, wof wooof woof woof woof wf wof

forecastle. It was a fine gam we had, and they were all trumps--every
woooooooof. Wf wof w woof wof wf wof, wof woof woof wof woooof--wooof

soul on board. A short life to them, and a jolly death. And that fine
woof wf wooof. W wooof woof wf woof, wof w wooof wooof. Wof woof woof

gam I had--long, very long after old Ahab touched her planks with his
wof W wof--woof, woof woof wooof wof Woof wooooof wof woooof woof wof

ivory heel--it minds me of the noble, solid, Saxon hospitality of that
wooof woof--wf wooof wf wf wof wooof, wooof, Wooof wooooooooof wf woof

ship; and may my parson forget me, and the devil remember me, if I ever
woof; wof wof wf woooof woooof wf, wof wof wooof woooooof wf, wf W woof

lose sight of it. Flip? Did I say we had flip? Yes, and we flipped it
woof wooof wf wf. Woof? Wof W wof wf wof woof? Wof, wof wf wooooof wf

at the rate of ten gallons the hour; and when the squall came (for it's
wf wof woof wf wof wooooof wof woof; wof woof wof woooof woof (wof wf'w

squally off there by Patagonia), and all hands--visitors and all--were
wooooof wof wooof wf Wooooooof), wof wof wooof--woooooof wof wof--woof

called to reef topsails, we were so top-heavy that we had to swing each
woooof wf woof woooooof, wf woof wf wof-wooof woof wf wof wf wooof woof

other aloft in bowlines; and we ignorantly furled the skirts of our
wooof wooof wf woooooof; wof wf woooooooof woooof wof woooof wf wof

jackets into the sails, so that we hung there, reefed fast in the
wooooof woof wof wooof, wf woof wf woof wooof, woooof woof wf wof

howling gale, a warning example to all drunken tars. However, the masts
wooooof woof, w wooooof wooooof wf wof wooooof woof. Wooooof, wof wooof

did not go overboard; and by and by we scrambled down, so sober, that we
wof wof wf wooooooof; wof wf wof wf wf wooooooof woof, wf wooof, woof wf

had to pass the flip again, though the savage salt spray bursting down
wof wf woof wof woof wooof, woooof wof woooof woof wooof woooooof woof

the forecastle scuttle, rather too much diluted and pickled it to my
wof woooooooof wooooof, woooof wof woof wooooof wof wooooof wf wf wf

taste.
wooof.




The beef was fine--tough, but with body in it. They said it was
Wof woof wof woof--wooof, wof woof woof wf wf. Woof woof wf wof

bull-beef; others, that it was dromedary beef; but I do not know, for
woof-woof; woooof, woof wf wof wooooooof woof; wof W wf wof woof, wof

certain, how that was. They had dumplings too; small, but substantial,
wooooof, wof woof wof. Woof wof wooooooof wof; wooof, wof wooooooooof,

symmetrically globular, and indestructible dumplings. I fancied that you
wooooooooooof woooooof, wof woooooooooooof wooooooof. W wooooof woof wof

could feel them, and roll them about in you after they were swallowed.
wooof woof woof, wof woof woof wooof wf wof wooof woof woof wooooooof.

If you stooped over too far forward, you risked their pitching out
Wf wof wooooof woof wof wof wooooof, wof woooof wooof woooooof wof

of you like billiard-balls. The bread--but that couldn't be helped;
wf wof woof woooooof-wooof. Wof wooof--wof woof woooof'w wf woooof;

besides, it was an anti-scorbutic; in short, the bread contained the
wooooof, wf wof wf woof-wooooooof; wf wooof, wof wooof wooooooof wof

only fresh fare they had. But the forecastle was not very light, and it
woof wooof woof woof wof. Wof wof woooooooof wof wof woof wooof, wof wf

was very easy to step over into a dark corner when you ate it. But all
wof woof woof wf woof woof woof w woof woooof woof wof wof wf. Wof wof

in all, taking her from truck to helm, considering the dimensions of the
wf wof, woooof wof woof wooof wf woof, wooooooooof wof woooooooof wf wof

cook's boilers, including his own live parchment boilers; fore and aft,
woof'w wooooof, wooooooof wof wof woof wooooooof wooooof; woof wof wof,

I say, the Samuel Enderby was a jolly ship; of good fare and plenty;
W wof, wof Woooof Wooooof wof w wooof woof; wf woof woof wof woooof;

fine flip and strong; crack fellows all, and capital from boot heels to
woof woof wof woooof; wooof wooooof wof, wof wooooof woof woof wooof wf

hat-band.
wof-woof.




But why was it, think ye, that the Samuel Enderby, and some other
Wof wof wof wf, wooof wf, woof wof Woooof Wooooof, wof woof wooof

English whalers I know of--not all though--were such famous, hospitable
Wooooof wooooof W woof wf--wof wof woooof--woof woof woooof, woooooooof

ships; that passed round the beef, and the bread, and the can, and the
wooof; woof woooof wooof wof woof, wof wof wooof, wof wof wof, wof wof

joke; and were not soon weary of eating, and drinking, and laughing?
woof; wof woof wof woof wooof wf woooof, wof woooooof, wof woooooof?

I will tell you. The abounding good cheer of these English whalers
W woof woof wof. Wof wooooooof woof wooof wf wooof Wooooof wooooof

is matter for historical research. Nor have I been at all sparing of
wf woooof wof woooooooof woooooof. Wof woof W woof wf wof wooooof wf

historical whale research, when it has seemed needed.
woooooooof wooof woooooof, woof wf wof woooof woooof.




The English were preceded in the whale fishery by the Hollanders,
Wof Wooooof woof woooooof wf wof wooof wooooof wf wof Woooooooof,

Zealanders, and Danes; from whom they derived many terms still extant
Woooooooof, wof Wooof; woof woof woof wooooof woof wooof wooof woooof

in the fishery; and what is yet more, their fat old fashions,
wf wof wooooof; wof woof wf wof woof, wooof wof wof woooooof,

touching plenty to eat and drink. For, as a general thing, the English
woooooof woooof wf wof wof wooof. Wof, wf w wooooof wooof, wof Wooooof

merchant-ship scrimps her crew; but not so the English whaler. Hence, in
woooooof-woof wooooof wof woof; wof wof wf wof Wooooof woooof. Wooof, wf

the English, this thing of whaling good cheer is not normal and natural,
wof Wooooof, woof wooof wf wooooof woof wooof wf wof woooof wof wooooof,

but incidental and particular; and, therefore, must have some special
wof woooooooof wof woooooooof; wof, wooooooof, woof woof woof wooooof

origin, which is here pointed out, and will be still further elucidated.
woooof, wooof wf woof wooooof wof, wof woof wf wooof wooooof woooooooof.




During my researches in the Leviathanic histories, I stumbled upon an
Woooof wf woooooooof wf wof Wooooooooof wooooooof, W woooooof woof wf

ancient Dutch volume, which, by the musty whaling smell of it, I
wooooof Wooof woooof, wooof, wf wof wooof wooooof wooof wf wf, W

knew must be about whalers. The title was, "Dan Coopman," wherefore I
woof woof wf wooof wooooof. Wof wooof wof, "Wof Wooooof," wooooooof W

concluded that this must be the invaluable memoirs of some Amsterdam
wooooooof woof woof woof wf wof woooooooof wooooof wf woof Wooooooof

cooper in the fishery, as every whale ship must carry its cooper. I was
woooof wf wof wooooof, wf wooof wooof woof woof wooof wof woooof. W wof

reinforced in this opinion by seeing that it was the production of one
woooooooof wf woof wooooof wf woooof woof wf wof wof woooooooof wf wof

"Fitz Swackhammer." But my friend Dr. Snodhead, a very learned man,
"Woof Wooooooooof." Wof wf woooof Wf. Woooooof, w woof wooooof wof,

professor of Low Dutch and High German in the college of Santa Claus and
wooooooof wf Wof Wooof wof Woof Woooof wf wof wooooof wf Wooof Wooof wof

St. Pott's, to whom I handed the work for translation, giving him a box
Wf. Woof'w, wf woof W woooof wof woof wof wooooooooof, woooof wof w wof

of sperm candles for his trouble--this same Dr. Snodhead, so soon as he
wf wooof wooooof wof wof wooooof--woof woof Wf. Woooooof, wf woof wf wf

spied the book, assured me that "Dan Coopman" did not mean "The Cooper,"
wooof wof woof, wooooof wf woof "Wof Wooooof" wof wof woof "Wof Woooof,"

but "The Merchant." In short, this ancient and learned Low Dutch book
wof "Wof Woooooof." Wf wooof, woof wooooof wof wooooof Wof Wooof woof

treated of the commerce of Holland; and, among other subjects, contained
wooooof wf wof woooooof wf Wooooof; wof, wooof wooof woooooof, wooooooof

a very interesting account of its whale fishery. And in this chapter it
w woof wooooooooof wooooof wf wof wooof wooooof. Wof wf woof wooooof wf

was, headed, "Smeer," or "Fat," that I found a long detailed list of the
wof, woooof, "Wooof," wf "Wof," woof W wooof w woof woooooof woof wf wof

outfits for the larders and cellars of 180 sail of Dutch whalemen; from
wooooof wof wof wooooof wof wooooof wf wof woof wf Wooof woooooof; woof

which list, as translated by Dr. Snodhead, I transcribe the following:
wooof woof, wf woooooooof wf Wf. Woooooof, W woooooooof wof wooooooof:




400,000 lbs. of beef. 60,000 lbs. Friesland pork. 150,000 lbs. of stock
wof,wof wof. wf woof. wf,wof wof. Wooooooof woof. wof,wof wof. wf wooof

fish. 550,000 lbs. of biscuit. 72,000 lbs. of soft bread. 2,800 firkins
woof. wof,wof wof. wf wooooof. wf,wof wof. wf woof wooof. w,wof wooooof

of butter. 20,000 lbs. Texel & Leyden cheese. 144,000 lbs. cheese
wf woooof. wf,wof wof. Wooof & Woooof woooof. wof,wof wof. woooof

(probably an inferior article). 550 ankers of Geneva. 10,800 barrels of
(woooooof wf woooooof wooooof). wof woooof wf Woooof. wf,wof wooooof wf

beer.
woof.




Most statistical tables are parchingly dry in the reading; not so in
Woof wooooooooof woooof wof woooooooof wof wf wof wooooof; wof wf wf

the present case, however, where the reader is flooded with whole pipes,
wof wooooof woof, wooooof, wooof wof woooof wf wooooof woof wooof wooof,

barrels, quarts, and gills of good gin and good cheer.
wooooof, woooof, wof wooof wf woof wof wof woof wooof.




At the time, I devoted three days to the studious digesting of all
Wf wof woof, W wooooof wooof woof wf wof woooooof wooooooof wf wof

this beer, beef, and bread, during which many profound thoughts were
woof woof, woof, wof wooof, woooof wooof woof woooooof woooooof woof

incidentally suggested to me, capable of a transcendental and Platonic
woooooooooof wooooooof wf wf, wooooof wf w woooooooooooof wof Woooooof

application; and, furthermore, I compiled supplementary tables of my
wooooooooof; wof, wooooooooof, W woooooof wooooooooooof woooof wf wf

own, touching the probable quantity of stock-fish, etc., consumed by
wof, woooooof wof woooooof woooooof wf wooof-woof, wof., woooooof wf

every Low Dutch harpooneer in that ancient Greenland and Spitzbergen
wooof Wof Wooof woooooooof wf woof wooooof Wooooooof wof Wooooooooof

whale fishery. In the first place, the amount of butter, and Texel and
wooof wooooof. Wf wof wooof wooof, wof woooof wf woooof, wof Wooof wof

Leyden cheese consumed, seems amazing. I impute it, though, to their
Woooof woooof woooooof, wooof wooooof. W woooof wf, woooof, wf wooof

naturally unctuous natures, being rendered still more unctuous by the
wooooooof woooooof wooooof, wooof woooooof wooof woof woooooof wf wof

nature of their vocation, and especially by their pursuing their game
woooof wf wooof woooooof, wof woooooooof wf wooof woooooof wooof woof

in those frigid Polar Seas, on the very coasts of that Esquimaux country
wf wooof woooof Wooof Woof, wf wof woof woooof wf woof Wooooooof wooooof

where the convivial natives pledge each other in bumpers of train oil.
wooof wof wooooooof wooooof woooof woof wooof wf wooooof wf wooof wof.




The quantity of beer, too, is very large, 10,800 barrels. Now, as those
Wof woooooof wf woof, wof, wf woof wooof, wf,wof wooooof. Wof, wf wooof

polar fisheries could only be prosecuted in the short summer of that
wooof wooooooof wooof woof wf woooooooof wf wof wooof woooof wf woof

climate, so that the whole cruise of one of these Dutch whalemen,
wooooof, wf woof wof wooof woooof wf wof wf wooof Wooof woooooof,

including the short voyage to and from the Spitzbergen sea, did not much
wooooooof wof wooof woooof wf wof woof wof Wooooooooof wof, wof wof woof

exceed three months, say, and reckoning 30 men to each of their fleet
woooof wooof woooof, wof, wof wooooooof wf wof wf woof wf wooof wooof

of 180 sail, we have 5,400 Low Dutch seamen in all; therefore, I say,
wf wof woof, wf woof w,wof Wof Wooof woooof wf wof; wooooooof, W wof,

we have precisely two barrels of beer per man, for a twelve weeks'
wf woof wooooooof wof wooooof wf woof wof wof, wof w woooof wooof'

allowance, exclusive of his fair proportion of that 550 ankers of gin.
wooooooof, wooooooof wf wof woof woooooooof wf woof wof woooof wf wof.

Now, whether these gin and beer harpooneers, so fuddled as one might
Wof, wooooof wooof wof wof woof wooooooooof, wf wooooof wf wof wooof

fancy them to have been, were the right sort of men to stand up in
wooof woof wf woof woof, woof wof wooof woof wf wof wf wooof wf wf

a boat's head, and take good aim at flying whales; this would seem
w woof'w woof, wof woof woof wof wf woooof woooof; woof wooof woof

somewhat improbable. Yet they did aim at them, and hit them too. But
woooooof woooooooof. Wof woof wof wof wf woof, wof wof woof wof. Wof

this was very far North, be it remembered, where beer agrees well with
woof wof woof wof Wooof, wf wf woooooooof, wooof woof woooof woof woof

the constitution; upon the Equator, in our southern fishery, beer would
wof woooooooooof; woof wof Wooooof, wf wof woooooof wooooof, woof wooof

be apt to make the harpooneer sleepy at the mast-head and boozy in his
wf wof wf woof wof woooooooof woooof wf wof woof-woof wof wooof wf wof

boat; and grievous loss might ensue to Nantucket and New Bedford.
woof; wof woooooof woof wooof wooof wf Wooooooof wof Wof Wooooof.




But no more; enough has been said to show that the old Dutch whalers
Wof wf woof; woooof wof woof woof wf woof woof wof wof Wooof wooooof

of two or three centuries ago were high livers; and that the English
wf wof wf wooof wooooooof wof woof woof woooof; wof woof wof Wooooof

whalers have not neglected so excellent an example. For, say they, when
wooooof woof wof wooooooof wf wooooooof wf wooooof. Wof, wof woof, woof

cruising in an empty ship, if you can get nothing better out of the
woooooof wf wf wooof woof, wf wof wof wof wooooof woooof wof wf wof

world, get a good dinner out of it, at least. And this empties the
wooof, wof w woof woooof wof wf wf, wf wooof. Wof woof wooooof wof

decanter.
woooooof.










CHAPTER 102. A Bower in the Arsacides.
WOOOOOF wof. W Wooof wf wof Wooooooof.







Hitherto, in descriptively treating of the Sperm Whale, I have chiefly
Woooooof, wf wooooooooooof woooooof wf wof Wooof Wooof, W woof wooooof

dwelt upon the marvels of his outer aspect; or separately and in detail
wooof woof wof wooooof wf wof wooof woooof; wf woooooooof wof wf woooof

upon some few interior structural features. But to a large and thorough
woof woof wof woooooof woooooooof woooooof. Wof wf w wooof wof woooooof

sweeping comprehension of him, it behooves me now to unbutton him still
woooooof wooooooooooof wf wof, wf woooooof wf wof wf woooooof wof wooof

further, and untagging the points of his hose, unbuckling his garters,
wooooof, wof wooooooof wof woooof wf wof woof, woooooooof wof wooooof,

and casting loose the hooks and the eyes of the joints of his innermost
wof wooooof wooof wof wooof wof wof woof wf wof woooof wf wof wooooooof

bones, set him before you in his ultimatum; that is to say, in his
wooof, wof wof woooof wof wf wof wooooooof; woof wf wf wof, wf wof

unconditional skeleton.
wooooooooooof woooooof.




But how now, Ishmael? How is it, that you, a mere oarsman in the
Wof wof wof, Wooooof? Wof wf wf, woof wof, w woof wooooof wf wof

fishery, pretend to know aught about the subterranean parts of the
wooooof, wooooof wf woof wooof wooof wof woooooooooof wooof wf wof

whale? Did erudite Stubb, mounted upon your capstan, deliver lectures
wooof? Wof wooooof Wooof, wooooof woof woof wooooof, wooooof woooooof

on the anatomy of the Cetacea; and by help of the windlass, hold up a
wf wof wooooof wf wof Wooooof; wof wf woof wf wof woooooof, woof wf w

specimen rib for exhibition? Explain thyself, Ishmael. Can you land
woooooof wof wof woooooooof? Wooooof wooooof, Wooooof. Wof wof woof

a full-grown whale on your deck for examination, as a cook dishes a
w woof-wooof wooof wf woof woof wof wooooooooof, wf w woof woooof w

roast-pig? Surely not. A veritable witness have you hitherto been,
wooof-wof? Woooof wof. W wooooooof wooooof woof wof woooooof woof,

Ishmael; but have a care how you seize the privilege of Jonah alone;
Wooooof; wof woof w woof wof wof wooof wof wooooooof wf Wooof wooof;

the privilege of discoursing upon the joists and beams; the rafters,
wof wooooooof wf wooooooooof woof wof woooof wof wooof; wof wooooof,

ridge-pole, sleepers, and under-pinnings, making up the frame-work of
wooof-woof, woooooof, wof wooof-woooooof, woooof wf wof wooof-woof wf

leviathan; and belike of the tallow-vats, dairy-rooms, butteries, and
wooooooof; wof woooof wf wof woooof-woof, wooof-wooof, wooooooof, wof

cheeseries in his bowels.
woooooooof wf wof woooof.




I confess, that since Jonah, few whalemen have penetrated very far
W wooooof, woof wooof Wooof, wof woooooof woof woooooooof woof wof

beneath the skin of the adult whale; nevertheless, I have been blessed
wooooof wof woof wf wof wooof wooof; woooooooooof, W woof woof wooooof

with an opportunity to dissect him in miniature. In a ship I belonged
woof wf wooooooooof wf wooooof wof wf wooooooof. Wf w woof W woooooof

to, a small cub Sperm Whale was once bodily hoisted to the deck for his
wf, w wooof wof Wooof Wooof wof woof woooof wooooof wf wof woof wof wof

poke or bag, to make sheaths for the barbs of the harpoons, and for the
woof wf wof, wf woof wooooof wof wof wooof wf wof woooooof, wof wof wof

heads of the lances. Think you I let that chance go, without using my
wooof wf wof woooof. Wooof wof W wof woof woooof wf, wooooof wooof wf

boat-hatchet and jack-knife, and breaking the seal and reading all the
woof-wooooof wof woof-wooof, wof woooooof wof woof wof wooooof wof wof

contents of that young cub?
woooooof wf woof wooof wof?




And as for my exact knowledge of the bones of the leviathan in their
Wof wf wof wf wooof wooooooof wf wof wooof wf wof wooooooof wf wooof

gigantic, full grown development, for that rare knowledge I am indebted
woooooof, woof wooof wooooooooof, wof woof woof wooooooof W wf woooooof

to my late royal friend Tranquo, king of Tranque, one of the Arsacides.
wf wf woof wooof woooof Wooooof, woof wf Wooooof, wof wf wof Wooooooof.

For being at Tranque, years ago, when attached to the trading-ship Dey
Wof wooof wf Wooooof, wooof wof, woof woooooof wf wof wooooof-woof Wof

of Algiers, I was invited to spend part of the Arsacidean holidays with
wf Wooooof, W wof wooooof wf wooof woof wf wof Woooooooof woooooof woof

the lord of Tranque, at his retired palm villa at Pupella; a sea-side
wof woof wf Wooooof, wf wof wooooof woof wooof wf Wooooof; w wof-woof

glen not very far distant from what our sailors called Bamboo-Town, his
woof wof woof wof wooooof woof woof wof wooooof woooof Woooof-Woof, wof

capital.
wooooof.




Among many other fine qualities, my royal friend Tranquo, being gifted
Wooof woof wooof woof wooooooof, wf wooof woooof Wooooof, wooof woooof

with a devout love for all matters of barbaric vertu, had brought
woof w woooof woof wof wof wooooof wf woooooof wooof, wof wooooof

together in Pupella whatever rare things the more ingenious of his
woooooof wf Wooooof woooooof woof woooof wof woof wooooooof wf wof

people could invent; chiefly carved woods of wonderful devices,
woooof wooof woooof; wooooof woooof wooof wf wooooooof wooooof,

chiselled shells, inlaid spears, costly paddles, aromatic canoes;
wooooooof woooof, woooof woooof, woooof wooooof, woooooof woooof;

and all these distributed among whatever natural wonders, the
wof wof wooof wooooooooof wooof woooooof wooooof wooooof, wof

wonder-freighted, tribute-rendering waves had cast upon his shores.
woooof-wooooooof, wooooof-wooooooof wooof wof woof woof wof woooof.




Chief among these latter was a great Sperm Whale, which, after an
Wooof wooof wooof woooof wof w wooof Wooof Wooof, wooof, wooof wf

unusually long raging gale, had been found dead and stranded, with his
wooooooof woof woooof woof, wof woof wooof woof wof woooooof, woof wof

head against a cocoa-nut tree, whose plumage-like, tufted droopings
woof wooooof w wooof-wof woof, wooof wooooof-woof, woooof wooooooof

seemed his verdant jet. When the vast body had at last been stripped of
woooof wof wooooof wof. Woof wof woof woof wof wf woof woof woooooof wf

its fathom-deep enfoldings, and the bones become dust dry in the sun,
wof woooof-woof woooooooof, wof wof wooof woooof woof wof wf wof wof,

then the skeleton was carefully transported up the Pupella glen, where a
woof wof woooooof wof wooooooof wooooooooof wf wof Wooooof woof, wooof w

grand temple of lordly palms now sheltered it.
wooof woooof wf woooof wooof wof wooooooof wf.




The ribs were hung with trophies; the vertebrae were carved with
Wof woof woof woof woof woooooof; wof wooooooof woof woooof woof

Arsacidean annals, in strange hieroglyphics; in the skull, the priests
Woooooooof woooof, wf wooooof wooooooooooof; wf wof wooof, wof wooooof

kept up an unextinguished aromatic flame, so that the mystic head
woof wf wf woooooooooooof woooooof wooof, wf woof wof woooof woof

again sent forth its vapoury spout; while, suspended from a bough, the
wooof woof wooof wof wooooof wooof; wooof, wooooooof woof w wooof, wof

terrific lower jaw vibrated over all the devotees, like the hair-hung
woooooof wooof wof woooooof woof wof wof woooooof, woof wof woof-woof

sword that so affrighted Damocles.
wooof woof wf woooooooof Woooooof.




It was a wondrous sight. The wood was green as mosses of the Icy
Wf wof w woooooof wooof. Wof woof wof wooof wf woooof wf wof Wof

Glen; the trees stood high and haughty, feeling their living sap; the
Woof; wof wooof wooof woof wof wooooof, wooooof wooof woooof wof; wof

industrious earth beneath was as a weaver's loom, with a gorgeous carpet
wooooooooof wooof wooooof wof wf w woooof'w woof, woof w woooooof woooof

on it, whereof the ground-vine tendrils formed the warp and woof, and
wf wf, wooooof wof woooof-woof woooooof woooof wof woof wof woof, wof

the living flowers the figures. All the trees, with all their laden
wof woooof wooooof wof wooooof. Wof wof wooof, woof wof wooof wooof

branches; all the shrubs, and ferns, and grasses; the message-carrying
woooooof; wof wof woooof, wof wooof, wof wooooof; wof wooooof-woooooof

air; all these unceasingly were active. Through the lacings of the
wof; wof wooof wooooooooof woof woooof. Wooooof wof wooooof wf wof

leaves, the great sun seemed a flying shuttle weaving the unwearied
woooof, wof wooof wof woooof w woooof wooooof wooooof wof wooooooof

verdure. Oh, busy weaver! unseen weaver!--pause!--one word!--whither
wooooof. Wf, woof woooof! woooof woooof!--wooof!--wof woof!--wooooof

flows the fabric? what palace may it deck? wherefore all these ceaseless
wooof wof woooof? woof woooof wof wf woof? wooooooof wof wooof wooooooof

toilings? Speak, weaver!--stay thy hand!--but one single word with
woooooof? Wooof, woooof!--woof wof woof!--wof wof woooof woof woof

thee! Nay--the shuttle flies--the figures float from forth the loom; the
woof! Wof--wof wooooof wooof--wof wooooof wooof woof wooof wof woof; wof

freshet-rushing carpet for ever slides away. The weaver-god, he weaves;
wooooof-wooooof woooof wof woof woooof woof. Wof woooof-wof, wf woooof;

and by that weaving is he deafened, that he hears no mortal voice; and
wof wf woof wooooof wf wf woooooof, woof wf wooof wf woooof wooof; wof

by that humming, we, too, who look on the loom are deafened; and only
wf woof wooooof, wf, wof, wof woof wf wof woof wof woooooof; wof woof

when we escape it shall we hear the thousand voices that speak through
woof wf woooof wf wooof wf woof wof woooooof woooof woof wooof wooooof

it. For even so it is in all material factories. The spoken words that
wf. Wof woof wf wf wf wf wof woooooof wooooooof. Wof woooof wooof woof

are inaudible among the flying spindles; those same words are plainly
wof wooooooof wooof wof woooof woooooof; wooof woof wooof wof wooooof

heard without the walls, bursting from the opened casements. Thereby
wooof wooooof wof wooof, woooooof woof wof woooof wooooooof. Wooooof

have villainies been detected. Ah, mortal! then, be heedful; for so, in
woof woooooooof woof woooooof. Wf, woooof! woof, wf wooooof; wof wf, wf

all this din of the great world's loom, thy subtlest thinkings may be
wof woof wof wf wof wooof wooof'w woof, wof woooooof wooooooof wof wf

overheard afar.
wooooooof woof.




Now, amid the green, life-restless loom of that Arsacidean wood, the
Wof, woof wof wooof, woof-woooooof woof wf woof Woooooooof woof, wof

great, white, worshipped skeleton lay lounging--a gigantic idler! Yet,
wooof, wooof, woooooooof woooooof wof woooooof--w woooooof wooof! Wof,

as the ever-woven verdant warp and woof intermixed and hummed around
wf wof woof-wooof wooooof woof wof woof woooooooof wof woooof woooof

him, the mighty idler seemed the cunning weaver; himself all woven
wof, wof woooof wooof woooof wof wooooof woooof; wooooof wof wooof

over with the vines; every month assuming greener, fresher verdure; but
woof woof wof wooof; wooof wooof woooooof wooooof, wooooof wooooof; wof

himself a skeleton. Life folded Death; Death trellised Life; the grim
wooooof w woooooof. Woof woooof Wooof; Wooof wooooooof Woof; wof woof

god wived with youthful Life, and begat him curly-headed glories.
wof wooof woof woooooof Woof, wof wooof wof wooof-woooof wooooof.




Now, when with royal Tranquo I visited this wondrous whale, and saw the
Wof, woof woof wooof Wooooof W wooooof woof woooooof wooof, wof wof wof

skull an altar, and the artificial smoke ascending from where the real
wooof wf wooof, wof wof woooooooof wooof wooooooof woof wooof wof woof

jet had issued, I marvelled that the king should regard a chapel as
wof wof woooof, W wooooooof woof wof woof woooof woooof w woooof wf

an object of vertu. He laughed. But more I marvelled that the priests
wf woooof wf wooof. Wf wooooof. Wof woof W wooooooof woof wof wooooof

should swear that smoky jet of his was genuine. To and fro I paced
woooof wooof woof wooof wof wf wof wof wooooof. Wf wof wof W wooof

before this skeleton--brushed the vines aside--broke through the
woooof woof woooooof--wooooof wof wooof wooof--wooof wooooof wof

ribs--and with a ball of Arsacidean twine, wandered, eddied long amid
woof--wof woof w woof wf Woooooooof wooof, woooooof, woooof woof woof

its many winding, shaded colonnades and arbours. But soon my line was
wof woof wooooof, woooof woooooooof wof wooooof. Wof woof wf woof wof

out; and following it back, I emerged from the opening where I entered.
wof; wof wooooooof wf woof, W wooooof woof wof wooooof wooof W wooooof.

I saw no living thing within; naught was there but bones.
W wof wf woooof wooof woooof; woooof wof wooof wof wooof.




Cutting me a green measuring-rod, I once more dived within the skeleton.
Wooooof wf w wooof wooooooof-wof, W woof woof wooof woooof wof woooooof.

From their arrow-slit in the skull, the priests perceived me taking the
Woof wooof wooof-woof wf wof wooof, wof wooooof wooooooof wf woooof wof

altitude of the final rib, "How now!" they shouted; "Dar'st thou measure
woooooof wf wof wooof wof, "Wof wof!" woof wooooof; "Wof'wf woof wooooof

this our god! That's for us." "Aye, priests--well, how long do ye make
woof wof wof! Woof'w wof wf." "Wof, wooooof--woof, wof woof wf wf woof

him, then?" But hereupon a fierce contest rose among them, concerning
wof, woof?" Wof woooooof w woooof wooooof woof wooof woof, woooooooof

feet and inches; they cracked each other's sconces with their
woof wof woooof; woof wooooof woof wooof'w wooooof woof wooof

yard-sticks--the great skull echoed--and seizing that lucky chance, I
woof-woooof--wof wooof wooof woooof--wof wooooof woof wooof woooof, W

quickly concluded my own admeasurements.
wooooof wooooooof wf wof woooooooooooof.




These admeasurements I now propose to set before you. But first, be
Wooof woooooooooooof W wof wooooof wf wof woooof wof. Wof wooof, wf

it recorded, that, in this matter, I am not free to utter any fancied
wf woooooof, woof, wf woof woooof, W wf wof woof wf wooof wof wooooof

measurement I please. Because there are skeleton authorities you can
wooooooooof W woooof. Wooooof wooof wof woooooof wooooooooof wof wof

refer to, to test my accuracy. There is a Leviathanic Museum, they tell
wooof wf, wf woof wf woooooof. Wooof wf w Wooooooooof Woooof, woof woof

me, in Hull, England, one of the whaling ports of that country, where
wf, wf Woof, Wooooof, wof wf wof wooooof wooof wf woof wooooof, wooof

they have some fine specimens of fin-backs and other whales. Likewise, I
woof woof woof woof wooooooof wf wof-wooof wof wooof woooof. Woooooof, W

have heard that in the museum of Manchester, in New Hampshire, they have
woof wooof woof wf wof woooof wf Woooooooof, wf Wof Wooooooof, woof woof

what the proprietors call "the only perfect specimen of a Greenland or
woof wof wooooooooof woof "wof woof wooooof woooooof wf w Wooooooof wf

River Whale in the United States." Moreover, at a place in Yorkshire,
Wooof Wooof wf wof Woooof Woooof." Woooooof, wf w wooof wf Wooooooof,

England, Burton Constable by name, a certain Sir Clifford Constable has
Wooooof, Woooof Wooooooof wf woof, w wooooof Wof Woooooof Wooooooof wof

in his possession the skeleton of a Sperm Whale, but of moderate size,
wf wof woooooooof wof woooooof wf w Wooof Wooof, wof wf woooooof woof,

by no means of the full-grown magnitude of my friend King Tranquo's.
wf wf wooof wf wof woof-wooof wooooooof wf wf woooof Woof Wooooof'w.




In both cases, the stranded whales to which these two skeletons
Wf woof wooof, wof woooooof woooof wf wooof wooof wof wooooooof

belonged, were originally claimed by their proprietors upon similar
woooooof, woof woooooooof wooooof wf wooof wooooooooof woof wooooof

grounds. King Tranquo seizing his because he wanted it; and Sir
wooooof. Woof Wooooof wooooof wof wooooof wf woooof wf; wof Wof

Clifford, because he was lord of the seignories of those parts. Sir
Woooooof, wooooof wf wof woof wf wof woooooooof wf wooof wooof. Wof

Clifford's whale has been articulated throughout; so that, like a
Woooooof'w wooof wof woof wooooooooof woooooooof; wf woof, woof w

great chest of drawers, you can open and shut him, in all his bony
wooof wooof wf wooooof, wof wof woof wof woof wof, wf wof wof woof

cavities--spread out his ribs like a gigantic fan--and swing all day
woooooof--woooof wof wof woof woof w woooooof wof--wof wooof wof wof

upon his lower jaw. Locks are to be put upon some of his trap-doors and
woof wof wooof wof. Wooof wof wf wf wof woof woof wf wof woof-wooof wof

shutters; and a footman will show round future visitors with a bunch of
woooooof; wof w wooooof woof woof wooof woooof woooooof woof w wooof wf

keys at his side. Sir Clifford thinks of charging twopence for a peep at
woof wf wof woof. Wof Woooooof woooof wf woooooof woooooof wof w woof wf

the whispering gallery in the spinal column; threepence to hear the echo
wof woooooooof wooooof wf wof woooof woooof; woooooooof wf woof wof woof

in the hollow of his cerebellum; and sixpence for the unrivalled view
wf wof woooof wf wof woooooooof; wof woooooof wof wof woooooooof woof

from his forehead.
woof wof woooooof.




The skeleton dimensions I shall now proceed to set down are copied
Wof woooooof woooooooof W wooof wof wooooof wf wof woof wof woooof

verbatim from my right arm, where I had them tattooed; as in my wild
woooooof woof wf wooof wof, wooof W wof woof woooooof; wf wf wf woof

wanderings at that period, there was no other secure way of preserving
woooooooof wf woof woooof, wooof wof wf wooof woooof wof wf woooooooof

such valuable statistics. But as I was crowded for space, and wished
woof woooooof woooooooof. Wof wf W wof wooooof wof wooof, wof woooof

the other parts of my body to remain a blank page for a poem I was
wof wooof wooof wf wf woof wf woooof w wooof woof wof w woof W wof

then composing--at least, what untattooed parts might remain--I did not
woof wooooooof--wf wooof, woof woooooooof wooof wooof woooof--W wof wof

trouble myself with the odd inches; nor, indeed, should inches at all
wooooof woooof woof wof wof woooof; wof, woooof, woooof woooof wf wof

enter into a congenial admeasurement of the whale.
wooof woof w wooooooof wooooooooooof wf wof wooof.










CHAPTER 103. Measurement of The Whale's Skeleton.
WOOOOOF wof. Wooooooooof wf Wof Wooof'w Woooooof.







In the first place, I wish to lay before you a particular, plain
Wf wof wooof wooof, W woof wf wof woooof wof w woooooooof, wooof

statement, touching the living bulk of this leviathan, whose skeleton we
wooooooof, woooooof wof woooof woof wf woof wooooooof, wooof woooooof wf

are briefly to exhibit. Such a statement may prove useful here.
wof wooooof wf wooooof. Woof w wooooooof wof wooof woooof woof.




According to a careful calculation I have made, and which I partly base
Wooooooof wf w wooooof wooooooooof W woof woof, wof wooof W woooof woof

upon Captain Scoresby's estimate, of seventy tons for the largest
woof Wooooof Woooooof'w woooooof, wf wooooof woof wof wof wooooof

sized Greenland whale of sixty feet in length; according to my careful
wooof Wooooooof wooof wf wooof woof wf woooof; wooooooof wf wf wooooof

calculation, I say, a Sperm Whale of the largest magnitude, between
wooooooooof, W wof, w Wooof Wooof wf wof wooooof wooooooof, wooooof

eighty-five and ninety feet in length, and something less than forty
woooof-woof wof woooof woof wf woooof, wof wooooooof woof woof wooof

feet in its fullest circumference, such a whale will weigh at least
woof wf wof wooooof wooooooooooof, woof w wooof woof wooof wf wooof

ninety tons; so that, reckoning thirteen men to a ton, he would
woooof woof; wf woof, wooooooof woooooof wof wf w wof, wf wooof

considerably outweigh the combined population of a whole village of one
woooooooooof woooooof wof woooooof woooooooof wf w wooof wooooof wf wof

thousand one hundred inhabitants.
woooooof wof wooooof wooooooooof.




Think you not then that brains, like yoked cattle, should be put to this
Wooof wof wof woof woof woooof, woof wooof woooof, woooof wf wof wf woof

leviathan, to make him at all budge to any landsman's imagination?
wooooooof, wf woof wof wf wof wooof wf wof woooooof'w wooooooooof?




Having already in various ways put before you his skull, spout-hole,
Woooof wooooof wf wooooof woof wof woooof wof wof wooof, wooof-woof,

jaw, teeth, tail, forehead, fins, and divers other parts, I shall now
wof, wooof, woof, woooooof, woof, wof woooof wooof wooof, W wooof wof

simply point out what is most interesting in the general bulk of his
woooof wooof wof woof wf woof wooooooooof wf wof wooooof woof wf wof

unobstructed bones. But as the colossal skull embraces so very large
woooooooooof wooof. Wof wf wof woooooof wooof woooooof wf woof wooof

a proportion of the entire extent of the skeleton; as it is by far the
w woooooooof wf wof woooof woooof wf wof woooooof; wf wf wf wf wof wof

most complicated part; and as nothing is to be repeated concerning it in
woof wooooooooof woof; wof wf wooooof wf wf wf woooooof woooooooof wf wf

this chapter, you must not fail to carry it in your mind, or under your
woof wooooof, wof woof wof woof wf wooof wf wf woof woof, wf wooof woof

arm, as we proceed, otherwise you will not gain a complete notion of the
wof, wf wf wooooof, wooooooof wof woof wof woof w woooooof woooof wf wof

general structure we are about to view.
wooooof wooooooof wf wof wooof wf woof.




In length, the Sperm Whale's skeleton at Tranque measured seventy-two
Wf woooof, wof Wooof Wooof'w woooooof wf Wooooof woooooof wooooof-wof

Feet; so that when fully invested and extended in life, he must have
Woof; wf woof woof wooof woooooof wof woooooof wf woof, wf woof woof

been ninety feet long; for in the whale, the skeleton loses about one
woof woooof woof woof; wof wf wof wooof, wof woooooof wooof wooof wof

fifth in length compared with the living body. Of this seventy-two feet,
wooof wf woooof woooooof woof wof woooof woof. Wf woof wooooof-wof woof,

his skull and jaw comprised some twenty feet, leaving some fifty feet of
wof wooof wof wof wooooooof woof woooof woof, wooooof woof wooof woof wf

plain back-bone. Attached to this back-bone, for something less than a
wooof woof-woof. Woooooof wf woof woof-woof, wof wooooooof woof woof w

third of its length, was the mighty circular basket of ribs which once
wooof wf wof woooof, wof wof woooof woooooof woooof wf woof wooof woof

enclosed his vitals.
woooooof wof woooof.




To me this vast ivory-ribbed chest, with the long, unrelieved spine,
Wf wf woof woof wooof-woooof wooof, woof wof woof, woooooooof wooof,

extending far away from it in a straight line, not a little resembled
wooooooof wof woof woof wf wf w woooooof woof, wof w woooof wooooooof

the hull of a great ship new-laid upon the stocks, when only some twenty
wof woof wf w wooof woof wof-woof woof wof woooof, woof woof woof woooof

of her naked bow-ribs are inserted, and the keel is otherwise, for the
wf wof wooof wof-woof wof woooooof, wof wof woof wf wooooooof, wof wof

time, but a long, disconnected timber.
woof, wof w woof, woooooooooof woooof.




The ribs were ten on a side. The first, to begin from the neck,
Wof woof woof wof wf w woof. Wof wooof, wf wooof woof wof woof,

was nearly six feet long; the second, third, and fourth were each
wof woooof wof woof woof; wof woooof, wooof, wof woooof woof woof

successively longer, till you came to the climax of the fifth, or one
woooooooooof woooof, woof wof woof wf wof woooof wf wof wooof, wf wof

of the middle ribs, which measured eight feet and some inches. From
wf wof woooof woof, wooof woooooof wooof woof wof woof woooof. Woof

that part, the remaining ribs diminished, till the tenth and last only
woof woof, wof wooooooof woof woooooooof, woof wof wooof wof woof woof

spanned five feet and some inches. In general thickness, they all bore
wooooof woof woof wof woof woooof. Wf wooooof wooooooof, woof wof woof

a seemly correspondence to their length. The middle ribs were the most
w woooof woooooooooooof wf wooof woooof. Wof woooof woof woof wof woof

arched. In some of the Arsacides they are used for beams whereon to lay
woooof. Wf woof wf wof Wooooooof woof wof woof wof wooof wooooof wf wof

footpath bridges over small streams.
woooooof wooooof woof wooof wooooof.




In considering these ribs, I could not but be struck anew with the
Wf wooooooooof wooof woof, W wooof wof wof wf woooof woof woof wof

circumstance, so variously repeated in this book, that the skeleton of
woooooooooof, wf wooooooof woooooof wf woof woof, woof wof woooooof wf

the whale is by no means the mould of his invested form. The largest of
wof wooof wf wf wf wooof wof wooof wf wof woooooof woof. Wof wooooof wf

the Tranque ribs, one of the middle ones, occupied that part of the fish
wof Wooooof woof, wof wf wof woooof woof, woooooof woof woof wf wof woof

which, in life, is greatest in depth. Now, the greatest depth of the
wooof, wf woof, wf woooooof wf wooof. Wof, wof woooooof wooof wf wof

invested body of this particular whale must have been at least sixteen
woooooof woof wf woof woooooooof wooof woof woof woof wf wooof wooooof

feet; whereas, the corresponding rib measured but little more than eight
woof; wooooof, wof wooooooooooof wof woooooof wof woooof woof woof wooof

feet. So that this rib only conveyed half of the true notion of the
woof. Wf woof woof wof woof woooooof woof wf wof woof woooof wf wof

living magnitude of that part. Besides, for some way, where I now saw
woooof wooooooof wf woof woof. Wooooof, wof woof wof, wooof W wof wof

but a naked spine, all that had been once wrapped round with tons of
wof w wooof wooof, wof woof wof woof woof wooooof wooof woof woof wf

added bulk in flesh, muscle, blood, and bowels. Still more, for the
wooof woof wf wooof, woooof, wooof, wof woooof. Wooof woof, wof wof

ample fins, I here saw but a few disordered joints; and in place of the
wooof woof, W woof wof wof w wof woooooooof woooof; wof wf wooof wf wof

weighty and majestic, but boneless flukes, an utter blank!
wooooof wof woooooof, wof woooooof woooof, wf wooof wooof!




How vain and foolish, then, thought I, for timid untravelled man to try
Wof woof wof wooooof, woof, wooooof W, wof wooof wooooooooof wof wf wof

to comprehend aright this wondrous whale, by merely poring over his dead
wf woooooooof woooof woof woooooof wooof, wf woooof woooof woof wof woof

attenuated skeleton, stretched in this peaceful wood. No. Only in the
woooooooof woooooof, wooooooof wf woof woooooof woof. Wf. Woof wf wof

heart of quickest perils; only when within the eddyings of his angry
wooof wf woooooof woooof; woof woof woooof wof woooooof wf wof wooof

flukes; only on the profound unbounded sea, can the fully invested whale
woooof; woof wf wof woooooof wooooooof wof, wof wof wooof woooooof wooof

be truly and livingly found out.
wf wooof wof woooooof wooof wof.




But the spine. For that, the best way we can consider it is, with a
Wof wof wooof. Wof woof, wof woof wof wf wof woooooof wf wf, woof w

crane, to pile its bones high up on end. No speedy enterprise. But now
wooof, wf woof wof wooof woof wf wf wof. Wf woooof woooooooof. Wof wof

it's done, it looks much like Pompey's Pillar.
wf'w woof, wf wooof woof woof Woooof'w Woooof.




There are forty and odd vertebrae in all, which in the skeleton are
Wooof wof wooof wof wof wooooooof wf wof, wooof wf wof woooooof wof

not locked together. They mostly lie like the great knobbed blocks on
wof woooof woooooof. Woof woooof wof woof wof wooof wooooof woooof wf

a Gothic spire, forming solid courses of heavy masonry. The largest,
w Woooof wooof, wooooof wooof wooooof wf wooof wooooof. Wof wooooof,

a middle one, is in width something less than three feet, and in depth
w woooof wof, wf wf wooof wooooooof woof woof wooof woof, wof wf wooof

more than four. The smallest, where the spine tapers away into the
woof woof woof. Wof woooooof, wooof wof wooof woooof woof woof wof

tail, is only two inches in width, and looks something like a white
woof, wf woof wof woooof wf wooof, wof wooof wooooooof woof w wooof

billiard-ball. I was told that there were still smaller ones, but they
woooooof-woof. W wof woof woof wooof woof wooof wooooof woof, wof woof

had been lost by some little cannibal urchins, the priest's children,
wof woof woof wf woof woooof woooooof wooooof, wof woooof'w woooooof,

who had stolen them to play marbles with. Thus we see how that the
wof wof woooof woof wf woof wooooof woof. Woof wf wof wof woof wof

spine of even the hugest of living things tapers off at last into simple
wooof wf woof wof woooof wf woooof woooof woooof wof wf woof woof woooof

child's play.
wooof'w woof.










CHAPTER 104. The Fossil Whale.
WOOOOOF wof. Wof Woooof Wooof.







From his mighty bulk the whale affords a most congenial theme whereon
Woof wof woooof woof wof wooof wooooof w woof wooooooof wooof wooooof

to enlarge, amplify, and generally expatiate. Would you, you could not
wf wooooof, wooooof, wof wooooooof wooooooof. Wooof wof, wof wooof wof

compress him. By good rights he should only be treated of in imperial
woooooof wof. Wf woof woooof wf woooof woof wf wooooof wf wf woooooof

folio. Not to tell over again his furlongs from spiracle to tail,
wooof. Wof wf woof woof wooof wof woooooof woof woooooof wf woof,

and the yards he measures about the waist; only think of the gigantic
wof wof wooof wf woooooof wooof wof wooof; woof wooof wf wof woooooof

involutions of his intestines, where they lie in him like great
wooooooooof wf wof woooooooof, wooof woof wof wf wof woof wooof

cables and hawsers coiled away in the subterranean orlop-deck of a
woooof wof wooooof woooof woof wf wof woooooooooof wooof-woof wf w

line-of-battle-ship.
woof-wf-woooof-woof.




Since I have undertaken to manhandle this Leviathan, it behooves me
Wooof W woof woooooooof wf wooooooof woof Wooooooof, wf woooooof wf

to approve myself omnisciently exhaustive in the enterprise; not
wf wooooof woooof woooooooooof woooooooof wf wof woooooooof; wof

overlooking the minutest seminal germs of his blood, and spinning him
wooooooooof wof woooooof wooooof wooof wf wof wooof, wof woooooof wof

out to the uttermost coil of his bowels. Having already described him
wof wf wof wooooooof woof wf wof woooof. Woooof wooooof wooooooof wof

in most of his present habitatory and anatomical peculiarities, it
wf woof wf wof wooooof woooooooof wof woooooooof wooooooooooof, wf

now remains to magnify him in an archaeological, fossiliferous, and
wof wooooof wf wooooof wof wf wf woooooooooooof, wooooooooooof, wof

antediluvian point of view. Applied to any other creature than the
woooooooooof wooof wf woof. Wooooof wf wof wooof woooooof woof wof

Leviathan--to an ant or a flea--such portly terms might justly be deemed
Wooooooof--wf wf wof wf w woof--woof woooof wooof wooof woooof wf woooof

unwarrantably grandiloquent. But when Leviathan is the text, the case is
wooooooooooof wooooooooooof. Wof woof Wooooooof wf wof woof, wof woof wf

altered. Fain am I to stagger to this emprise under the weightiest
wooooof. Woof wf W wf wooooof wf woof wooooof wooof wof woooooooof

words of the dictionary. And here be it said, that whenever it has been
wooof wf wof woooooooof. Wof woof wf wf woof, woof woooooof wf wof woof

convenient to consult one in the course of these dissertations, I have
woooooooof wf wooooof wof wf wof woooof wf wooof wooooooooooof, W woof

invariably used a huge quarto edition of Johnson, expressly purchased
woooooooof woof w woof woooof wooooof wf Wooooof, wooooooof wooooooof

for that purpose; because that famous lexicographer's uncommon personal
wof woof wooooof; wooooof woof woooof wooooooooooof'w woooooof woooooof

bulk more fitted him to compile a lexicon to be used by a whale author
woof woof woooof wof wf wooooof w wooooof wf wf woof wf w wooof woooof

like me.
woof wf.




One often hears of writers that rise and swell with their subject,
Wof wooof wooof wf wooooof woof woof wof wooof woof wooof wooooof,

though it may seem but an ordinary one. How, then, with me, writing
woooof wf wof woof wof wf woooooof wof. Wof, woof, woof wf, wooooof

of this Leviathan? Unconsciously my chirography expands into placard
wf woof Wooooooof? Wooooooooooof wf wooooooooof wooooof woof wooooof

capitals. Give me a condor's quill! Give me Vesuvius' crater for an
woooooof. Woof wf w woooof'w wooof! Woof wf Woooooof' woooof wof wf

inkstand! Friends, hold my arms! For in the mere act of penning my
woooooof! Wooooof, woof wf woof! Wof wf wof woof wof wf wooooof wf

thoughts of this Leviathan, they weary me, and make me faint with their
woooooof wf woof Wooooooof, woof wooof wf, wof woof wf wooof woof wooof

outreaching comprehensiveness of sweep, as if to include the whole
wooooooooof wooooooooooooooof wf wooof, wf wf wf wooooof wof wooof

circle of the sciences, and all the generations of whales, and men, and
woooof wf wof woooooof, wof wof wof wooooooooof wf woooof, wof wof, wof

mastodons, past, present, and to come, with all the revolving panoramas
wooooooof, woof, wooooof, wof wf woof, woof wof wof wooooooof wooooooof

of empire on earth, and throughout the whole universe, not excluding its
wf woooof wf wooof, wof woooooooof wof wooof woooooof, wof wooooooof wof

suburbs. Such, and so magnifying, is the virtue of a large and liberal
wooooof. Woof, wof wf woooooooof, wf wof woooof wf w wooof wof wooooof

theme! We expand to its bulk. To produce a mighty book, you must choose
wooof! Wf woooof wf wof woof. Wf wooooof w woooof woof, wof woof woooof

a mighty theme. No great and enduring volume can ever be written on the
w woooof wooof. Wf wooof wof woooooof woooof wof woof wf wooooof wf wof

flea, though many there be who have tried it.
woof, woooof woof wooof wf wof woof wooof wf.




Ere entering upon the subject of Fossil Whales, I present my credentials
Wof woooooof woof wof wooooof wf Woooof Woooof, W wooooof wf wooooooooof

as a geologist, by stating that in my miscellaneous time I have been
wf w wooooooof, wf wooooof woof wf wf wooooooooooof woof W woof woof

a stone-mason, and also a great digger of ditches, canals and wells,
w wooof-wooof, wof woof w wooof woooof wf wooooof, woooof wof wooof,

wine-vaults, cellars, and cisterns of all sorts. Likewise, by way of
woof-woooof, wooooof, wof woooooof wf wof wooof. Woooooof, wf wof wf

preliminary, I desire to remind the reader, that while in the earlier
wooooooooof, W woooof wf woooof wof woooof, woof wooof wf wof wooooof

geological strata there are found the fossils of monsters now almost
woooooooof woooof wooof wof wooof wof wooooof wf woooooof wof woooof

completely extinct; the subsequent relics discovered in what are called
woooooooof wooooof; wof woooooooof woooof woooooooof wf woof wof woooof

the Tertiary formations seem the connecting, or at any rate intercepted
wof Woooooof woooooooof woof wof woooooooof, wf wf wof woof wooooooooof

links, between the antichronical creatures, and those whose remote
wooof, wooooof wof wooooooooooof wooooooof, wof wooof wooof woooof

posterity are said to have entered the Ark; all the Fossil Whales
wooooooof wof woof wf woof wooooof wof Wof; wof wof Woooof Woooof

hitherto discovered belong to the Tertiary period, which is the last
woooooof woooooooof woooof wf wof Woooooof woooof, wooof wf wof woof

preceding the superficial formations. And though none of them
wooooooof wof wooooooooof woooooooof. Wof woooof woof wf woof

precisely answer to any known species of the present time, they are yet
wooooooof woooof wf wof wooof wooooof wf wof wooooof woof, woof wof wof

sufficiently akin to them in general respects, to justify their taking
woooooooooof woof wf woof wf wooooof woooooof, wf wooooof wooof woooof

rank as Cetacean fossils.
woof wf Woooooof wooooof.




Detached broken fossils of pre-adamite whales, fragments of their bones
Woooooof woooof wooooof wf wof-wooooof woooof, wooooooof wf wooof wooof

and skeletons, have within thirty years past, at various intervals, been
wof wooooooof, woof woooof woooof wooof woof, wf wooooof wooooooof, woof

found at the base of the Alps, in Lombardy, in France, in England, in
wooof wf wof woof wf wof Woof, wf Woooooof, wf Woooof, wf Wooooof, wf

Scotland, and in the States of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama.
Woooooof, wof wf wof Woooof wf Wooooooof, Wooooooooof, wof Wooooof.

Among the more curious of such remains is part of a skull, which in the
Wooof wof woof wooooof wf woof wooooof wf woof wf w wooof, wooof wf wof

year 1779 was disinterred in the Rue Dauphine in Paris, a short street
woof woof wof wooooooooof wf wof Wof Woooooof wf Wooof, w wooof woooof

opening almost directly upon the palace of the Tuileries; and bones
wooooof woooof woooooof woof wof woooof wf wof Wooooooof; wof wooof

disinterred in excavating the great docks of Antwerp, in Napoleon's
wooooooooof wf woooooooof wof wooof wooof wf Wooooof, wf Woooooof'w

time. Cuvier pronounced these fragments to have belonged to some utterly
woof. Woooof woooooooof wooof wooooooof wf woof woooooof wf woof wooooof

unknown Leviathanic species.
wooooof Wooooooooof wooooof.




But by far the most wonderful of all Cetacean relics was the almost
Wof wf wof wof woof wooooooof wf wof Woooooof woooof wof wof woooof

complete vast skeleton of an extinct monster, found in the year 1842, on
woooooof woof woooooof wf wf wooooof wooooof, wooof wf wof woof woof, wf

the plantation of Judge Creagh, in Alabama. The awe-stricken credulous
wof woooooooof wf Wooof Woooof, wf Wooooof. Wof wof-woooooof wooooooof

slaves in the vicinity took it for the bones of one of the fallen
woooof wf wof woooooof woof wf wof wof wooof wf wof wf wof woooof

angels. The Alabama doctors declared it a huge reptile, and bestowed
woooof. Wof Wooooof wooooof woooooof wf w woof wooooof, wof woooooof

upon it the name of Basilosaurus. But some specimen bones of it being
woof wf wof woof wf Woooooooooof. Wof woof woooooof wooof wf wf wooof

taken across the sea to Owen, the English Anatomist, it turned out
wooof woooof wof wof wf Woof, wof Wooooof Wooooooof, wf woooof wof

that this alleged reptile was a whale, though of a departed species. A
woof woof wooooof wooooof wof w wooof, woooof wf w woooooof wooooof. W

significant illustration of the fact, again and again repeated in this
wooooooooof woooooooooof wf wof woof, wooof wof wooof woooooof wf woof

book, that the skeleton of the whale furnishes but little clue to the
woof, woof wof woooooof wf wof wooof wooooooof wof woooof woof wf wof

shape of his fully invested body. So Owen rechristened the monster
wooof wf wof wooof woooooof woof. Wf Woof woooooooooof wof wooooof

Zeuglodon; and in his paper read before the London Geological Society,
Wooooooof; wof wf wof wooof woof woooof wof Woooof Woooooooof Wooooof,

pronounced it, in substance, one of the most extraordinary creatures
woooooooof wf, wf wooooooof, wof wf wof woof wooooooooooof wooooooof

which the mutations of the globe have blotted out of existence.
wooof wof wooooooof wf wof wooof woof wooooof wof wf wooooooof.




When I stand among these mighty Leviathan skeletons, skulls, tusks,
Woof W wooof wooof wooof woooof Wooooooof wooooooof, woooof, wooof,

jaws, ribs, and vertebrae, all characterized by partial resemblances to
woof, woof, wof wooooooof, wof wooooooooooof wf wooooof woooooooooof wf

the existing breeds of sea-monsters; but at the same time bearing on
wof woooooof woooof wf wof-woooooof; wof wf wof woof woof wooooof wf

the other hand similar affinities to the annihilated antichronical
wof wooof woof wooooof woooooooof wf wof wooooooooof wooooooooooof

Leviathans, their incalculable seniors; I am, by a flood, borne back
Woooooooof, wooof woooooooooof wooooof; W wf, wf w wooof, wooof woof

to that wondrous period, ere time itself can be said to have begun;
wf woof woooooof woooof, wof woof woooof wof wf woof wf woof wooof;

for time began with man. Here Saturn's grey chaos rolls over me, and I
wof woof wooof woof wof. Woof Woooof'w woof wooof wooof woof wf, wof W

obtain dim, shuddering glimpses into those Polar eternities; when wedged
woooof wof, woooooooof woooooof woof wooof Wooof woooooooof; woof woooof

bastions of ice pressed hard upon what are now the Tropics; and in
woooooof wf wof wooooof woof woof woof wof wof wof Wooooof; wof wf

all the 25,000 miles of this world's circumference, not an inhabitable
wof wof wf,wof wooof wf woof wooof'w wooooooooooof, wof wf wooooooooof

hand's breadth of land was visible. Then the whole world was the
woof'w wooooof wf woof wof wooooof. Woof wof wooof wooof wof wof

whale's; and, king of creation, he left his wake along the present lines
wooof'w; wof, woof wf woooooof, wf woof wof woof wooof wof wooooof wooof

of the Andes and the Himmalehs. Who can show a pedigree like Leviathan?
wf wof Wooof wof wof Wooooooof. Wof wof woof w woooooof woof Wooooooof?

Ahab's harpoon had shed older blood than the Pharaoh's. Methuselah seems
Woof'w wooooof wof woof wooof wooof woof wof Wooooof'w. Woooooooof wooof

a school-boy. I look round to shake hands with Shem. I am horror-struck
w woooof-wof. W woof wooof wf wooof wooof woof Woof. W wf woooof-woooof

at this antemosaic, unsourced existence of the unspeakable terrors of
wf woof woooooooof, wooooooof wooooooof wf wof wooooooooof wooooof wf

the whale, which, having been before all time, must needs exist after
wof wooof, wooof, woooof woof woooof wof woof, woof wooof wooof wooof

all humane ages are over.
wof woooof woof wof woof.




But not alone has this Leviathan left his pre-adamite traces in the
Wof wof wooof wof woof Wooooooof woof wof wof-wooooof woooof wf wof

stereotype plates of nature, and in limestone and marl bequeathed his
woooooooof woooof wf woooof, wof wf wooooooof wof woof woooooooof wof

ancient bust; but upon Egyptian tablets, whose antiquity seems to claim
wooooof woof; wof woof Woooooof wooooof, wooof wooooooof wooof wf wooof

for them an almost fossiliferous character, we find the unmistakable
wof woof wf woooof wooooooooooof wooooooof, wf woof wof woooooooooof

print of his fin. In an apartment of the great temple of Denderah,
wooof wf wof wof. Wf wf wooooooof wf wof wooof woooof wf Woooooof,

some fifty years ago, there was discovered upon the granite ceiling a
woof wooof wooof wof, wooof wof woooooooof woof wof wooooof wooooof w

sculptured and painted planisphere, abounding in centaurs, griffins, and
woooooooof wof wooooof wooooooooof, wooooooof wf woooooof, woooooof, wof

dolphins, similar to the grotesque figures on the celestial globe of the
woooooof, wooooof wf wof wooooooof wooooof wf wof wooooooof wooof wf wof

moderns. Gliding among them, old Leviathan swam as of yore; was there
wooooof. Wooooof wooof woof, wof Wooooooof woof wf wf woof; wof wooof

swimming in that planisphere, centuries before Solomon was cradled.
woooooof wf woof wooooooooof, wooooooof woooof Wooooof wof wooooof.




Nor must there be omitted another strange attestation of the antiquity
Wof woof wooof wf wooooof wooooof wooooof wooooooooof wf wof wooooooof

of the whale, in his own osseous post-diluvian reality, as set down by
wf wof wooof, wf wof wof wooooof woof-woooooof wooooof, wf wof woof wf

the venerable John Leo, the old Barbary traveller.
wof wooooooof Woof Wof, wof wof Wooooof wooooooof.




"Not far from the Sea-side, they have a Temple, the Rafters and Beams
"Wof wof woof wof Wof-woof, woof woof w Woooof, wof Wooooof wof Wooof

of which are made of Whale-Bones; for Whales of a monstrous size are
wf wooof wof woof wf Wooof-Wooof; wof Woooof wf w wooooooof woof wof

oftentimes cast up dead upon that shore. The Common People imagine, that
woooooooof woof wf woof woof woof wooof. Wof Woooof Woooof wooooof, woof

by a secret Power bestowed by God upon the temple, no Whale can pass it
wf w woooof Wooof woooooof wf Wof woof wof woooof, wf Wooof wof woof wf

without immediate death. But the truth of the Matter is, that on either
wooooof wooooooof wooof. Wof wof wooof wf wof Woooof wf, woof wf woooof

side of the Temple, there are Rocks that shoot two Miles into the Sea,
woof wf wof Woooof, wooof wof Wooof woof wooof wof Wooof woof wof Wof,

and wound the Whales when they light upon 'em. They keep a Whale's Rib
wof wooof wof Woooof woof woof wooof woof 'wf. Woof woof w Wooof'w Wof

of an incredible length for a Miracle, which lying upon the Ground with
wf wf woooooooof woooof wof w Wooooof, wooof wooof woof wof Woooof woof

its convex part uppermost, makes an Arch, the Head of which cannot be
wof woooof woof wooooooof, wooof wf Woof, wof Woof wf wooof woooof wf

reached by a Man upon a Camel's Back. This Rib (says John Leo) is said
wooooof wf w Wof woof w Wooof'w Woof. Woof Wof (woof Woof Wof) wf woof

to have layn there a hundred Years before I saw it. Their Historians
wf woof woof wooof w wooooof Wooof woooof W wof wf. Wooof Woooooooof

affirm, that a Prophet who prophesy'd of Mahomet, came from this Temple,
woooof, woof w Wooooof wof woooooof'w wf Wooooof, woof woof woof Woooof,

and some do not stand to assert, that the Prophet Jonas was cast forth
wof woof wf wof wooof wf woooof, woof wof Wooooof Wooof wof woof wooof

by the Whale at the Base of the Temple."
wf wof Wooof wf wof Woof wf wof Woooof."




In this Afric Temple of the Whale I leave you, reader, and if you be a
Wf woof Wooof Woooof wf wof Wooof W wooof wof, woooof, wof wf wof wf w

Nantucketer, and a whaleman, you will silently worship there.
Wooooooooof, wof w woooooof, wof woof woooooof wooooof wooof.










CHAPTER 105. Does the Whale's Magnitude Diminish?--Will He Perish?
WOOOOOF wof. Woof wof Wooof'w Wooooooof Woooooof?--Woof Wf Woooof?







Inasmuch, then, as this Leviathan comes floundering down upon us from
Woooooof, woof, wf woof Wooooooof wooof wooooooooof woof woof wf woof

the head-waters of the Eternities, it may be fitly inquired, whether,
wof woof-woooof wf wof Woooooooof, wf wof wf wooof woooooof, wooooof,

in the long course of his generations, he has not degenerated from the
wf wof woof woooof wf wof wooooooooof, wf wof wof wooooooooof woof wof

original bulk of his sires.
woooooof woof wf wof wooof.




But upon investigation we find, that not only are the whales of the
Wof woof wooooooooooof wf woof, woof wof woof wof wof woooof wf wof

present day superior in magnitude to those whose fossil remains are
wooooof wof woooooof wf wooooooof wf wooof wooof woooof wooooof wof

found in the Tertiary system (embracing a distinct geological period
wooof wf wof Woooooof woooof (wooooooof w woooooof woooooooof woooof

prior to man), but of the whales found in that Tertiary system, those
wooof wf wof), wof wf wof woooof wooof wf woof Woooooof woooof, wooof

belonging to its latter formations exceed in size those of its earlier
wooooooof wf wof woooof woooooooof woooof wf woof wooof wf wof wooooof

ones.
woof.




Of all the pre-adamite whales yet exhumed, by far the largest is the
Wf wof wof wof-wooooof woooof wof wooooof, wf wof wof wooooof wf wof

Alabama one mentioned in the last chapter, and that was less than
Wooooof wof wooooooof wf wof woof wooooof, wof woof wof woof woof

seventy feet in length in the skeleton. Whereas, we have already seen,
wooooof woof wf woooof wf wof woooooof. Wooooof, wf woof wooooof woof,

that the tape-measure gives seventy-two feet for the skeleton of a large
woof wof woof-wooooof wooof wooooof-wof woof wof wof woooooof wf w wooof

sized modern whale. And I have heard, on whalemen's authority, that
wooof woooof wooof. Wof W woof wooof, wf woooooof'w wooooooof, woof

Sperm Whales have been captured near a hundred feet long at the time of
Wooof Woooof woof woof woooooof woof w wooooof woof woof wf wof woof wf

capture.
wooooof.




But may it not be, that while the whales of the present hour are an
Wof wof wf wof wf, woof wooof wof woooof wf wof wooooof woof wof wf

advance in magnitude upon those of all previous geological periods; may
wooooof wf wooooooof woof wooof wf wof woooooof woooooooof wooooof; wof

it not be, that since Adam's time they have degenerated?
wf wof wf, woof wooof Woof'w woof woof woof wooooooooof?




Assuredly, we must conclude so, if we are to credit the accounts of such
Wooooooof, wf woof woooooof wf, wf wf wof wf woooof wof woooooof wf woof

gentlemen as Pliny, and the ancient naturalists generally. For Pliny
wooooooof wf Wooof, wof wof wooooof wooooooooof wooooooof. Wof Wooof

tells us of Whales that embraced acres of living bulk, and Aldrovandus
wooof wf wf Woooof woof woooooof wooof wf woooof woof, wof Wooooooooof

of others which measured eight hundred feet in length--Rope Walks and
wf woooof wooof woooooof wooof wooooof woof wf woooof--Woof Wooof wof

Thames Tunnels of Whales! And even in the days of Banks and Solander,
Woooof Wooooof wf Woooof! Wof woof wf wof woof wf Wooof wof Woooooof,

Cooke's naturalists, we find a Danish member of the Academy of Sciences
Wooof'w wooooooooof, wf woof w Woooof woooof wf wof Wooooof wf Woooooof

setting down certain Iceland Whales (reydan-siskur, or Wrinkled Bellies)
wooooof woof wooooof Wooooof Woooof (woooof-woooof, wf Woooooof Wooooof)

at one hundred and twenty yards; that is, three hundred and sixty feet.
wf wof wooooof wof woooof wooof; woof wf, wooof wooooof wof wooof woof.

And Lacepede, the French naturalist, in his elaborate history of whales,
Wof Woooooof, wof Woooof woooooooof, wf wof wooooooof wooooof wf woooof,

in the very beginning of his work (page 3), sets down the Right Whale at
wf wof woof wooooooof wf wof woof (woof w), woof woof wof Wooof Wooof wf

one hundred metres, three hundred and twenty-eight feet. And this work
wof wooooof woooof, wooof wooooof wof woooof-wooof woof. Wof woof woof

was published so late as A.D. 1825.
wof wooooooof wf woof wf W.W. woof.




But will any whaleman believe these stories? No. The whale of to-day is
Wof woof wof woooooof wooooof wooof wooooof? Wf. Wof wooof wf wf-wof wf

as big as his ancestors in Pliny's time. And if ever I go where Pliny
wf wof wf wof wooooooof wf Wooof'w woof. Wof wf woof W wf wooof Wooof

is, I, a whaleman (more than he was), will make bold to tell him so.
wf, W, w woooooof (woof woof wf wof), woof woof woof wf woof wof wf.

Because I cannot understand how it is, that while the Egyptian mummies
Wooooof W woooof woooooooof wof wf wf, woof wooof wof Woooooof wooooof

that were buried thousands of years before even Pliny was born, do not
woof woof woooof wooooooof wf wooof woooof woof Wooof wof woof, wf wof

measure so much in their coffins as a modern Kentuckian in his socks;
wooooof wf woof wf wooof wooooof wf w woooof Woooooooof wf wof wooof;

and while the cattle and other animals sculptured on the oldest Egyptian
wof wooof wof woooof wof wooof wooooof woooooooof wf wof woooof Woooooof

and Nineveh tablets, by the relative proportions in which they are
wof Wooooof wooooof, wf wof woooooof wooooooooof wf wooof woof wof

drawn, just as plainly prove that the high-bred, stall-fed, prize cattle
wooof, woof wf wooooof wooof woof wof woof-woof, wooof-wof, wooof woooof

of Smithfield, not only equal, but far exceed in magnitude the fattest
wf Woooooooof, wof woof wooof, wof wof woooof wf wooooooof wof wooooof

of Pharaoh's fat kine; in the face of all this, I will not admit that of
wf Wooooof'w wof woof; wf wof woof wf wof woof, W woof wof wooof woof wf

all animals the whale alone should have degenerated.
wof wooooof wof wooof wooof woooof woof wooooooooof.




But still another inquiry remains; one often agitated by the more
Wof wooof wooooof wooooof wooooof; wof wooof woooooof wf wof woof

recondite Nantucketers. Whether owing to the almost omniscient look-outs
wooooooof Woooooooooof. Wooooof wooof wf wof woooof woooooooof woof-woof

at the mast-heads of the whaleships, now penetrating even through
wf wof woof-wooof wf wof woooooooof, wof wooooooooof woof wooooof

Behring's straits, and into the remotest secret drawers and lockers
Wooooof'w wooooof, wof woof wof woooooof woooof wooooof wof wooooof

of the world; and the thousand harpoons and lances darted along all
wf wof wooof; wof wof woooooof woooooof wof woooof woooof wooof wof

continental coasts; the moot point is, whether Leviathan can long endure
wooooooooof woooof; wof woof wooof wf, wooooof Wooooooof wof woof woooof

so wide a chase, and so remorseless a havoc; whether he must not at last
wf woof w wooof, wof wf wooooooooof w wooof; wooooof wf woof wof wf woof

be exterminated from the waters, and the last whale, like the last man,
wf woooooooooof woof wof woooof, wof wof woof wooof, woof wof woof wof,

smoke his last pipe, and then himself evaporate in the final puff.
wooof wof woof woof, wof woof wooooof wooooooof wf wof wooof woof.




Comparing the humped herds of whales with the humped herds of buffalo,
Wooooooof wof woooof wooof wf woooof woof wof woooof wooof wf wooooof,

which, not forty years ago, overspread by tens of thousands the prairies
wooof, wof wooof wooof wof, woooooooof wf woof wf wooooooof wof woooooof

of Illinois and Missouri, and shook their iron manes and scowled with
wf Woooooof wof Woooooof, wof wooof wooof woof wooof wof wooooof woof

their thunder-clotted brows upon the sites of populous river-capitals,
wooof wooooof-wooooof wooof woof wof wooof wf woooooof wooof-woooooof,

where now the polite broker sells you land at a dollar an inch; in such
wooof wof wof woooof woooof wooof wof woof wf w woooof wf woof; wf woof

a comparison an irresistible argument would seem furnished, to show that
w woooooooof wf woooooooooof woooooof wooof woof wooooooof, wf woof woof

the hunted whale cannot now escape speedy extinction.
wof woooof wooof woooof wof woooof woooof woooooooof.




But you must look at this matter in every light. Though so short a
Wof wof woof woof wf woof woooof wf wooof wooof. Woooof wf wooof w

period ago--not a good lifetime--the census of the buffalo in Illinois
woooof wof--wof w woof woooooof--wof woooof wf wof wooooof wf Woooooof

exceeded the census of men now in London, and though at the present day
woooooof wof woooof wf wof wof wf Woooof, wof woooof wf wof wooooof wof

not one horn or hoof of them remains in all that region; and though the
wof wof woof wf woof wf woof wooooof wf wof woof woooof; wof woooof wof

cause of this wondrous extermination was the spear of man; yet the far
wooof wf woof woooooof wooooooooooof wof wof wooof wf wof; wof wof wof

different nature of the whale-hunt peremptorily forbids so inglorious an
wooooooof woooof wf wof wooof-woof woooooooooof wooooof wf woooooooof wf

end to the Leviathan. Forty men in one ship hunting the Sperm Whales for
wof wf wof Wooooooof. Wooof wof wf wof woof wooooof wof Wooof Woooof wof

forty-eight months think they have done extremely well, and thank God,
wooof-wooof woooof wooof woof woof woof wooooooof woof, wof wooof Wof,

if at last they carry home the oil of forty fish. Whereas, in the days
wf wf woof woof wooof woof wof wof wf wooof woof. Wooooof, wf wof woof

of the old Canadian and Indian hunters and trappers of the West, when
wf wof wof Woooooof wof Woooof wooooof wof woooooof wf wof Woof, woof

the far west (in whose sunset suns still rise) was a wilderness and
wof wof woof (wf wooof woooof woof wooof woof) wof w woooooooof wof

a virgin, the same number of moccasined men, for the same number of
w woooof, wof woof woooof wf woooooooof wof, wof wof woof woooof wf

months, mounted on horse instead of sailing in ships, would have slain
woooof, wooooof wf wooof wooooof wf wooooof wf wooof, wooof woof wooof

not forty, but forty thousand and more buffaloes; a fact that, if need
wof wooof, wof wooof woooooof wof woof wooooooof; w woof woof, wf woof

were, could be statistically stated.
woof, wooof wf wooooooooooof woooof.




Nor, considered aright, does it seem any argument in favour of the
Wof, woooooooof woooof, woof wf woof wof woooooof wf woooof wf wof

gradual extinction of the Sperm Whale, for example, that in former years
wooooof woooooooof wf wof Wooof Wooof, wof wooooof, woof wf woooof wooof

(the latter part of the last century, say) these Leviathans, in
(wof woooof woof wf wof woof wooooof, wof) wooof Woooooooof, wf

small pods, were encountered much oftener than at present, and, in
wooof woof, woof wooooooooof woof wooooof woof wf wooooof, wof, wf

consequence, the voyages were not so prolonged, and were also much more
wooooooooof, wof wooooof woof wof wf wooooooof, wof woof woof woof woof

remunerative. Because, as has been elsewhere noticed, those whales,
woooooooooof. Wooooof, wf wof woof wooooooof wooooof, wooof woooof,

influenced by some views to safety, now swim the seas in immense
woooooooof wf woof wooof wf woooof, wof woof wof woof wf wooooof

caravans, so that to a large degree the scattered solitaries, yokes, and
woooooof, wf woof wf w wooof woooof wof wooooooof woooooooof, wooof, wof

pods, and schools of other days are now aggregated into vast but widely
woof, wof wooooof wf wooof woof wof wof woooooooof woof woof wof woooof

separated, unfrequent armies. That is all. And equally fallacious seems
wooooooof, woooooooof woooof. Woof wf wof. Wof wooooof woooooooof wooof

the conceit, that because the so-called whale-bone whales no longer
wof wooooof, woof wooooof wof wf-woooof wooof-woof woooof wf woooof

haunt many grounds in former years abounding with them, hence that
wooof woof wooooof wf woooof wooof wooooooof woof woof, wooof woof

species also is declining. For they are only being driven from
wooooof woof wf wooooooof. Wof woof wof woof wooof woooof woof

promontory to cape; and if one coast is no longer enlivened with
woooooooof wf woof; wof wf wof wooof wf wf woooof wooooooof woof

their jets, then, be sure, some other and remoter strand has been very
wooof woof, woof, wf woof, woof wooof wof wooooof woooof wof woof woof

recently startled by the unfamiliar spectacle.
woooooof woooooof wf wof woooooooof wooooooof.




Furthermore: concerning these last mentioned Leviathans, they have two
Wooooooooof: woooooooof wooof woof wooooooof Woooooooof, woof woof wof

firm fortresses, which, in all human probability, will for ever remain
woof woooooooof, wooof, wf wof wooof wooooooooof, woof wof woof woooof

impregnable. And as upon the invasion of their valleys, the frosty Swiss
wooooooooof. Wof wf woof wof woooooof wf wooof wooooof, wof woooof Wooof

have retreated to their mountains; so, hunted from the savannas and
woof wooooooof wf wooof wooooooof; wf, woooof woof wof woooooof wof

glades of the middle seas, the whale-bone whales can at last resort to
woooof wf wof woooof woof, wof wooof-woof woooof wof wf woof woooof wf

their Polar citadels, and diving under the ultimate glassy barriers and
wooof Wooof woooooof, wof woooof wooof wof woooooof woooof woooooof wof

walls there, come up among icy fields and floes; and in a charmed circle
wooof wooof, woof wf wooof wof woooof wof wooof; wof wf w wooooof woooof

of everlasting December, bid defiance to all pursuit from man.
wf wooooooooof Woooooof, wof woooooof wf wof wooooof woof wof.




But as perhaps fifty of these whale-bone whales are harpooned for one
Wof wf wooooof wooof wf wooof wooof-woof woooof wof wooooooof wof wof

cachalot, some philosophers of the forecastle have concluded that this
woooooof, woof woooooooooof wf wof woooooooof woof wooooooof woof woof

positive havoc has already very seriously diminished their battalions.
woooooof wooof wof wooooof woof wooooooof woooooooof wooof woooooooof.

But though for some time past a number of these whales, not less than
Wof woooof wof woof woof woof w woooof wf wooof woooof, wof woof woof

13,000, have been annually slain on the nor'-west coast by the Americans
wf,wof, woof woof woooooof wooof wf wof wof'-woof wooof wf wof Wooooooof

alone; yet there are considerations which render even this circumstance
wooof; wof wooof wof woooooooooooof wooof woooof woof woof woooooooooof

of little or no account as an opposing argument in this matter.
wf woooof wf wf wooooof wf wf woooooof woooooof wf woof woooof.




Natural as it is to be somewhat incredulous concerning the populousness
Wooooof wf wf wf wf wf woooooof wooooooooof woooooooof wof woooooooooof

of the more enormous creatures of the globe, yet what shall we say to
wf wof woof woooooof wooooooof wf wof wooof, wof woof wooof wf wof wf

Harto, the historian of Goa, when he tells us that at one hunting the
Wooof, wof wooooooof wf Wof, woof wf wooof wf woof wf wof wooooof wof

King of Siam took 4,000 elephants; that in those regions elephants are
Woof wf Woof woof w,wof wooooooof; woof wf wooof wooooof wooooooof wof

numerous as droves of cattle in the temperate climes. And there seems no
woooooof wf woooof wf woooof wf wof wooooooof woooof. Wof wooof wooof wf

reason to doubt that if these elephants, which have now been hunted for
woooof wf wooof woof wf wooof wooooooof, wooof woof wof woof woooof wof

thousands of years, by Semiramis, by Porus, by Hannibal, and by all the
wooooooof wf wooof, wf Wooooooof, wf Wooof, wf Woooooof, wof wf wof wof

successive monarchs of the East--if they still survive there in great
woooooooof woooooof wf wof Woof--wf woof wooof wooooof wooof wf wooof

numbers, much more may the great whale outlast all hunting, since he
wooooof, woof woof wof wof wooof wooof wooooof wof wooooof, wooof wf

has a pasture to expatiate in, which is precisely twice as large as all
wof w wooooof wf wooooooof wf, wooof wf wooooooof wooof wf wooof wf wof

Asia, both Americas, Europe and Africa, New Holland, and all the Isles
Woof, woof Woooooof, Woooof wof Woooof, Wof Wooooof, wof wof wof Wooof

of the sea combined.
wf wof wof woooooof.




Moreover: we are to consider, that from the presumed great longevity
Woooooof: wf wof wf woooooof, woof woof wof woooooof wooof wooooooof

of whales, their probably attaining the age of a century and more,
wf woooof, wooof woooooof wooooooof wof wof wf w wooooof wof woof,

therefore at any one period of time, several distinct adult generations
wooooooof wf wof wof woooof wf woof, wooooof woooooof wooof wooooooooof

must be contemporary. And what that is, we may soon gain some idea
woof wf woooooooooof. Wof woof woof wf, wf wof woof woof woof woof

of, by imagining all the grave-yards, cemeteries, and family vaults of
wf, wf wooooooof wof wof wooof-wooof, woooooooof, wof woooof woooof wf

creation yielding up the live bodies of all the men, women, and children
woooooof woooooof wf wof woof woooof wf wof wof wof, wooof, wof woooooof

who were alive seventy-five years ago; and adding this countless host to
wof woof wooof wooooof-woof wooof wof; wof woooof woof wooooooof woof wf

the present human population of the globe.
wof wooooof wooof woooooooof wf wof wooof.




Wherefore, for all these things, we account the whale immortal in his
Wooooooof, wof wof wooof woooof, wf wooooof wof wooof woooooof wf wof

species, however perishable in his individuality. He swam the seas
wooooof, wooooof woooooooof wf wof wooooooooooof. Wf woof wof woof

before the continents broke water; he once swam over the site of the
woooof wof woooooooof wooof wooof; wf woof woof woof wof woof wf wof

Tuileries, and Windsor Castle, and the Kremlin. In Noah's flood he
Wooooooof, wof Wooooof Woooof, wof wof Wooooof. Wf Woof'w wooof wf

despised Noah's Ark; and if ever the world is to be again flooded, like
woooooof Woof'w Wof; wof wf woof wof wooof wf wf wf wooof wooooof, woof

the Netherlands, to kill off its rats, then the eternal whale will still
wof Wooooooooof, wf woof wof wof woof, woof wof wooooof wooof woof wooof

survive, and rearing upon the topmost crest of the equatorial flood,
wooooof, wof wooooof woof wof wooooof wooof wf wof woooooooof wooof,

spout his frothed defiance to the skies.
wooof wof wooooof woooooof wf wof wooof.










CHAPTER 106. Ahab's Leg.
WOOOOOF wof. Woof'w Wof.







The precipitating manner in which Captain Ahab had quitted the Samuel
Wof wooooooooooof woooof wf wooof Wooooof Woof wof wooooof wof Woooof

Enderby of London, had not been unattended with some small violence to
Wooooof wf Woooof, wof wof woof woooooooof woof woof wooof woooooof wf

his own person. He had lighted with such energy upon a thwart of his
wof wof woooof. Wf wof wooooof woof woof woooof woof w woooof wf wof

boat that his ivory leg had received a half-splintering shock. And
woof woof wof wooof wof wof woooooof w woof-wooooooooof wooof. Wof

when after gaining his own deck, and his own pivot-hole there, he so
woof wooof wooooof wof wof woof, wof wof wof wooof-woof wooof, wf wf

vehemently wheeled round with an urgent command to the steersman (it
woooooooof wooooof wooof woof wf woooof wooooof wf wof wooooooof (wf

was, as ever, something about his not steering inflexibly enough); then,
wof, wf woof, wooooooof wooof wof wof woooooof woooooooof woooof); woof,

the already shaken ivory received such an additional twist and wrench,
wof wooooof woooof wooof woooooof woof wf woooooooof wooof wof woooof,

that though it still remained entire, and to all appearances lusty, yet
woof woooof wf wooof woooooof woooof, wof wf wof wooooooooof wooof, wof

Ahab did not deem it entirely trustworthy.
Woof wof wof woof wf woooooof wooooooooof.




And, indeed, it seemed small matter for wonder, that for all his
Wof, woooof, wf woooof wooof woooof wof woooof, woof wof wof wof

pervading, mad recklessness, Ahab did at times give careful heed to the
wooooooof, wof woooooooooof, Woof wof wf wooof woof wooooof woof wf wof

condition of that dead bone upon which he partly stood. For it had not
wooooooof wf woof woof woof woof wooof wf woooof wooof. Wof wf wof wof

been very long prior to the Pequod's sailing from Nantucket, that he
woof woof woof wooof wf wof Woooof'w wooooof woof Wooooooof, woof wf

had been found one night lying prone upon the ground, and insensible;
wof woof wooof wof wooof wooof wooof woof wof woooof, wof woooooooof;

by some unknown, and seemingly inexplicable, unimaginable casualty, his
wf woof wooooof, wof wooooooof woooooooooof, woooooooooof woooooof, wof

ivory limb having been so violently displaced, that it had stake-wise
wooof woof woooof woof wf wooooooof wooooooof, woof wf wof wooof-woof

smitten, and all but pierced his groin; nor was it without extreme
wooooof, wof wof wof wooooof wof wooof; wof wof wf wooooof wooooof

difficulty that the agonizing wound was entirely cured.
woooooooof woof wof wooooooof wooof wof woooooof wooof.




Nor, at the time, had it failed to enter his monomaniac mind, that all
Wof, wf wof woof, wof wf woooof wf wooof wof woooooooof woof, woof wof

the anguish of that then present suffering was but the direct issue of a
wof wooooof wf woof woof wooooof wooooooof wof wof wof woooof wooof wf w

former woe; and he too plainly seemed to see, that as the most poisonous
woooof wof; wof wf wof wooooof woooof wf wof, woof wf wof woof wooooooof

reptile of the marsh perpetuates his kind as inevitably as the sweetest
wooooof wf wof wooof wooooooooof wof woof wf woooooooof wf wof woooooof

songster of the grove; so, equally with every felicity, all miserable
woooooof wf wof wooof; wf, wooooof woof wooof woooooof, wof wooooooof

events do naturally beget their like. Yea, more than equally, thought
woooof wf wooooooof wooof wooof woof. Wof, woof woof wooooof, wooooof

Ahab; since both the ancestry and posterity of Grief go further than the
Woof; wooof woof wof woooooof wof wooooooof wf Wooof wf wooooof woof wof

ancestry and posterity of Joy. For, not to hint of this: that it is
woooooof wof wooooooof wf Wof. Wof, wof wf woof wf woof: woof wf wf

an inference from certain canonic teachings, that while some natural
wf wooooooof woof wooooof wooooof wooooooof, woof wooof woof wooooof

enjoyments here shall have no children born to them for the other world,
woooooooof woof wooof woof wf woooooof woof wf woof wof wof wooof wooof,

but, on the contrary, shall be followed by the joy-childlessness of
wof, wf wof woooooof, wooof wf woooooof wf wof wof-wooooooooooof wf

all hell's despair; whereas, some guilty mortal miseries shall still
wof woof'w wooooof; wooooof, woof woooof woooof woooooof wooof wooof

fertilely beget to themselves an eternally progressive progeny of griefs
wooooooof wooof wf woooooooof wf wooooooof wooooooooof wooooof wf woooof

beyond the grave; not at all to hint of this, there still seems an
woooof wof wooof; wof wf wof wf woof wf woof, wooof wooof wooof wf

inequality in the deeper analysis of the thing. For, thought Ahab, while
woooooooof wf wof woooof woooooof wf wof wooof. Wof, wooooof Woof, wooof

even the highest earthly felicities ever have a certain unsignifying
woof wof wooooof wooooof woooooooof woof woof w wooooof woooooooooof

pettiness lurking in them, but, at bottom, all heartwoes, a mystic
wooooooof wooooof wf woof, wof, wf woooof, wof wooooooof, w woooof

significance, and, in some men, an archangelic grandeur; so do their
woooooooooof, wof, wf woof wof, wf wooooooooof woooooof; wf wf wooof

diligent tracings-out not belie the obvious deduction. To trail the
woooooof woooooof-wof wof wooof wof wooooof wooooooof. Wf wooof wof

genealogies of these high mortal miseries, carries us at last among the
wooooooooof wf wooof woof woooof woooooof, wooooof wf wf woof wooof wof

sourceless primogenitures of the gods; so that, in the face of all the
woooooooof woooooooooooof wf wof woof; wf woof, wf wof woof wf wof wof

glad, hay-making suns, and soft cymballing, round harvest-moons, we must
woof, wof-woooof woof, wof woof woooooooof, wooof wooooof-wooof, wf woof

needs give in to this: that the gods themselves are not for ever glad.
wooof woof wf wf woof: woof wof woof woooooooof wof wof wof woof woof.

The ineffaceable, sad birth-mark in the brow of man, is but the stamp of
Wof woooooooooof, wof wooof-woof wf wof woof wf wof, wf wof wof wooof wf

sorrow in the signers.
woooof wf wof wooooof.




Unwittingly here a secret has been divulged, which perhaps might more
Wooooooooof woof w woooof wof woof woooooof, wooof wooooof wooof woof

properly, in set way, have been disclosed before. With many other
woooooof, wf wof wof, woof woof wooooooof woooof. Woof woof wooof

particulars concerning Ahab, always had it remained a mystery to some,
wooooooooof woooooooof Woof, woooof wof wf woooooof w wooooof wf woof,

why it was, that for a certain period, both before and after the sailing
wof wf wof, woof wof w wooooof woooof, woof woooof wof wooof wof wooooof

of the Pequod, he had hidden himself away with such Grand-Lama-like
wf wof Woooof, wf wof woooof wooooof woof woof woof Wooof-Woof-woof

exclusiveness; and, for that one interval, sought speechless refuge, as
wooooooooooof; wof, wof woof wof woooooof, woooof woooooooof woooof, wf

it were, among the marble senate of the dead. Captain Peleg's bruited
wf woof, wooof wof woooof woooof wf wof woof. Wooooof Wooof'w wooooof

reason for this thing appeared by no means adequate; though, indeed,
woooof wof woof wooof woooooof wf wf wooof woooooof; woooof, woooof,

as touching all Ahab's deeper part, every revelation partook more of
wf woooooof wof Woof'w woooof woof, wooof woooooooof wooooof woof wf

significant darkness than of explanatory light. But, in the end, it all
wooooooooof woooooof woof wf wooooooooof wooof. Wof, wf wof wof, wf wof

came out; this one matter did, at least. That direful mishap was at
woof wof; woof wof woooof wof, wf wooof. Woof wooooof woooof wof wf

the bottom of his temporary recluseness. And not only this, but to that
wof woooof wf wof wooooooof wooooooooof. Wof wof woof woof, wof wf woof

ever-contracting, dropping circle ashore, who, for any reason, possessed
woof-wooooooooof, woooooof woooof woooof, wof, wof wof woooof, wooooooof

the privilege of a less banned approach to him; to that timid circle the
wof wooooooof wf w woof woooof woooooof wf wof; wf woof wooof woooof wof

above hinted casualty--remaining, as it did, moodily unaccounted for by
wooof woooof woooooof--wooooooof, wf wf wof, wooooof wooooooooof wof wf

Ahab--invested itself with terrors, not entirely underived from the land
Woof--woooooof woooof woof wooooof, wof woooooof wooooooof woof wof woof

of spirits and of wails. So that, through their zeal for him, they had
wf wooooof wof wf wooof. Wf woof, wooooof wooof woof wof wof, woof wof

all conspired, so far as in them lay, to muffle up the knowledge of
wof wooooooof, wf wof wf wf woof wof, wf woooof wf wof wooooooof wf

this thing from others; and hence it was, that not till a considerable
woof wooof woof woooof; wof wooof wf wof, woof wof woof w woooooooooof

interval had elapsed, did it transpire upon the Pequod's decks.
woooooof wof wooooof, wof wf wooooooof woof wof Woooof'w wooof.




But be all this as it may; let the unseen, ambiguous synod in the air,
Wof wf wof woof wf wf wof; wof wof woooof, wooooooof wooof wf wof wof,

or the vindictive princes and potentates of fire, have to do or not
wf wof woooooooof wooooof wof woooooooof wf woof, woof wf wf wf wof

with earthly Ahab, yet, in this present matter of his leg, he took plain
woof wooooof Woof, wof, wf woof wooooof woooof wf wof wof, wf woof wooof

practical procedures;--he called the carpenter.
wooooooof woooooooof;--wf woooof wof wooooooof.




And when that functionary appeared before him, he bade him without delay
Wof woof woof wooooooooof woooooof woooof wof, wf woof wof wooooof wooof

set about making a new leg, and directed the mates to see him supplied
wof wooof woooof w wof wof, wof woooooof wof wooof wf wof wof woooooof

with all the studs and joists of jaw-ivory (Sperm Whale) which had thus
woof wof wof wooof wof woooof wf wof-wooof (Wooof Wooof) wooof wof woof

far been accumulated on the voyage, in order that a careful selection
wof woof wooooooooof wf wof woooof, wf wooof woof w wooooof wooooooof

of the stoutest, clearest-grained stuff might be secured. This done, the
wf wof woooooof, woooooof-wooooof wooof wooof wf wooooof. Woof woof, wof

carpenter received orders to have the leg completed that night; and to
wooooooof woooooof woooof wf woof wof wof wooooooof woof wooof; wof wf

provide all the fittings for it, independent of those pertaining to
wooooof wof wof woooooof wof wf, wooooooooof wf wooof woooooooof wf

the distrusted one in use. Moreover, the ship's forge was ordered to be
wof woooooooof wof wf wof. Woooooof, wof woof'w wooof wof wooooof wf wf

hoisted out of its temporary idleness in the hold; and, to accelerate
wooooof wof wf wof wooooooof woooooof wf wof woof; wof, wf woooooooof

the affair, the blacksmith was commanded to proceed at once to the
wof woooof, wof woooooooof wof wooooooof wf wooooof wf woof wf wof

forging of whatever iron contrivances might be needed.
wooooof wf woooooof woof woooooooooof wooof wf woooof.










CHAPTER 107. The Carpenter.
WOOOOOF wof. Wof Wooooooof.







Seat thyself sultanically among the moons of Saturn, and take high
Woof wooooof woooooooooof wooof wof wooof wf Woooof, wof woof woof

abstracted man alone; and he seems a wonder, a grandeur, and a woe. But
woooooooof wof wooof; wof wf wooof w woooof, w woooooof, wof w wof. Wof

from the same point, take mankind in mass, and for the most part, they
woof wof woof wooof, woof wooooof wf woof, wof wof wof woof woof, woof

seem a mob of unnecessary duplicates, both contemporary and hereditary.
woof w wof wf wooooooooof woooooooof, woof woooooooooof wof woooooooof.

But most humble though he was, and far from furnishing an example of
Wof woof woooof woooof wf wof, wof wof woof woooooooof wf wooooof wf

the high, humane abstraction; the Pequod's carpenter was no duplicate;
wof woof, woooof wooooooooof; wof Woooof'w wooooooof wof wf wooooooof;

hence, he now comes in person on this stage.
wooof, wf wof wooof wf woooof wf woof wooof.




Like all sea-going ship carpenters, and more especially those belonging
Woof wof wof-wooof woof woooooooof, wof woof woooooooof wooof wooooooof

to whaling vessels, he was, to a certain off-handed, practical extent,
wf wooooof wooooof, wf wof, wf w wooooof wof-woooof, wooooooof woooof,

alike experienced in numerous trades and callings collateral to his own;
wooof wooooooooof wf woooooof woooof wof woooooof woooooooof wf wof wof;

the carpenter's pursuit being the ancient and outbranching trunk of all
wof wooooooof'w wooooof wooof wof wooooof wof woooooooooof wooof wf wof

those numerous handicrafts which more or less have to do with wood as an
wooof woooooof wooooooooof wooof woof wf woof woof wf wf woof woof wf wf

auxiliary material. But, besides the application to him of the generic
wooooooof woooooof. Wof, wooooof wof wooooooooof wf wof wf wof wooooof

remark above, this carpenter of the Pequod was singularly efficient in
woooof wooof, woof wooooooof wf wof Woooof wof woooooooof wooooooof wf

those thousand nameless mechanical emergencies continually recurring
wooof woooooof woooooof woooooooof wooooooooof wooooooooof wooooooof

in a large ship, upon a three or four years' voyage, in uncivilized
wf w wooof woof, woof w wooof wf woof wooof' woooof, wf wooooooooof

and far-distant seas. For not to speak of his readiness in ordinary
wof wof-wooooof woof. Wof wof wf wooof wf wof wooooooof wf woooooof

duties:--repairing stove boats, sprung spars, reforming the shape of
woooof:--wooooooof wooof wooof, woooof wooof, wooooooof wof wooof wf

clumsy-bladed oars, inserting bull's eyes in the deck, or new tree-nails
woooof-woooof woof, wooooooof woof'w woof wf wof woof, wf wof woof-wooof

in the side planks, and other miscellaneous matters more directly
wf wof woof woooof, wof wooof wooooooooooof wooooof woof woooooof

pertaining to his special business; he was moreover unhesitatingly
woooooooof wf wof wooooof woooooof; wf wof woooooof woooooooooooof

expert in all manner of conflicting aptitudes, both useful and
woooof wf wof woooof wf wooooooooof wooooooof, woof woooof wof

capricious.
woooooooof.




The one grand stage where he enacted all his various parts so manifold,
Wof wof wooof wooof wooof wf wooooof wof wof wooooof wooof wf woooooof,

was his vice-bench; a long rude ponderous table furnished with several
wof wof woof-wooof; w woof woof wooooooof wooof wooooooof woof wooooof

vices, of different sizes, and both of iron and of wood. At all times
wooof, wf wooooooof wooof, wof woof wf woof wof wf woof. Wf wof wooof

except when whales were alongside, this bench was securely lashed
woooof woof woooof woof wooooooof, woof wooof wof woooooof woooof

athwartships against the rear of the Try-works.
woooooooooof wooooof wof woof wf wof Wof-wooof.




A belaying pin is found too large to be easily inserted into its hole:
W woooooof wof wf wooof wof wooof wf wf woooof woooooof woof wof woof:

the carpenter claps it into one of his ever-ready vices, and straightway
wof wooooooof wooof wf woof wof wf wof woof-wooof wooof, wof wooooooooof

files it smaller. A lost land-bird of strange plumage strays on board,
wooof wf wooooof. W woof woof-woof wf wooooof wooooof woooof wf wooof,

and is made a captive: out of clean shaved rods of right-whale bone, and
wof wf woof w wooooof: wof wf wooof woooof woof wf wooof-wooof woof, wof

cross-beams of sperm whale ivory, the carpenter makes a pagoda-looking
wooof-wooof wf wooof wooof wooof, wof wooooooof wooof w woooof-wooooof

cage for it. An oarsman sprains his wrist: the carpenter concocts a
woof wof wf. Wf wooooof wooooof wof wooof: wof wooooooof woooooof w

soothing lotion. Stubb longed for vermillion stars to be painted upon
woooooof woooof. Wooof woooof wof woooooooof wooof wf wf wooooof woof

the blade of his every oar; screwing each oar in his big vice of wood,
wof wooof wf wof wooof wof; woooooof woof wof wf wof wof woof wf woof,

the carpenter symmetrically supplies the constellation. A sailor takes
wof wooooooof wooooooooooof woooooof wof wooooooooooof. W woooof wooof

a fancy to wear shark-bone ear-rings: the carpenter drills his ears.
w wooof wf woof wooof-woof wof-wooof: wof wooooooof woooof wof woof.

Another has the toothache: the carpenter out pincers, and clapping
Wooooof wof wof wooooooof: wof wooooooof wof wooooof, wof woooooof

one hand upon his bench bids him be seated there; but the poor fellow
wof woof woof wof wooof woof wof wf woooof wooof; wof wof woof woooof

unmanageably winces under the unconcluded operation; whirling round the
woooooooooof woooof wooof wof wooooooooof wooooooof; woooooof wooof wof

handle of his wooden vice, the carpenter signs him to clap his jaw in
woooof wf wof woooof woof, wof wooooooof wooof wof wf woof wof wof wf

that, if he would have him draw the tooth.
woof, wf wf wooof woof wof woof wof wooof.




Thus, this carpenter was prepared at all points, and alike indifferent
Woof, woof wooooooof wof woooooof wf wof woooof, wof wooof wooooooooof

and without respect in all. Teeth he accounted bits of ivory; heads he
wof wooooof wooooof wf wof. Wooof wf wooooooof woof wf wooof; wooof wf

deemed but top-blocks; men themselves he lightly held for capstans. But
woooof wof wof-woooof; wof woooooooof wf wooooof woof wof woooooof. Wof

while now upon so wide a field thus variously accomplished and with such
wooof wof woof wf woof w wooof woof wooooooof woooooooooof wof woof woof

liveliness of expertness in him, too; all this would seem to argue some
woooooooof wf woooooooof wf wof, wof; wof woof wooof woof wf wooof woof

uncommon vivacity of intelligence. But not precisely so. For nothing was
woooooof woooooof wf woooooooooof. Wof wof wooooooof wf. Wof wooooof wof

this man more remarkable, than for a certain impersonal stolidity as
woof wof woof woooooooof, woof wof w wooooof woooooooof wooooooof wf

it were; impersonal, I say; for it so shaded off into the surrounding
wf woof; woooooooof, W wof; wof wf wf woooof wof woof wof wooooooooof

infinite of things, that it seemed one with the general stolidity
woooooof wf woooof, woof wf woooof wof woof wof wooooof wooooooof

discernible in the whole visible world; which while pauselessly active
wooooooooof wf wof wooof wooooof wooof; wooof wooof wooooooooof woooof

in uncounted modes, still eternally holds its peace, and ignores you,
wf wooooooof wooof, wooof wooooooof wooof wof wooof, wof wooooof wof,

though you dig foundations for cathedrals. Yet was this half-horrible
woooof wof wof wooooooooof wof woooooooof. Wof wof woof woof-woooooof

stolidity in him, involving, too, as it appeared, an all-ramifying
wooooooof wf wof, wooooooof, wof, wf wf woooooof, wf wof-wooooooof

heartlessness;--yet was it oddly dashed at times, with an old,
wooooooooooof;--wof wof wf wooof woooof wf wooof, woof wf wof,

crutch-like, antediluvian, wheezing humorousness, not unstreaked now
woooof-woof, woooooooooof, woooooof woooooooooof, wof woooooooof wof

and then with a certain grizzled wittiness; such as might have served
wof woof woof w wooooof woooooof wooooooof; woof wf wooof woof woooof

to pass the time during the midnight watch on the bearded forecastle
wf woof wof woof woooof wof woooooof wooof wf wof wooooof woooooooof

of Noah's ark. Was it that this old carpenter had been a life-long
wf Woof'w wof. Wof wf woof woof wof wooooooof wof woof w woof-woof

wanderer, whose much rolling, to and fro, not only had gathered no moss;
woooooof, wooof woof wooooof, wf wof wof, wof woof wof woooooof wf woof;

but what is more, had rubbed off whatever small outward clingings
wof woof wf woof, wof woooof wof woooooof wooof wooooof wooooooof

might have originally pertained to him? He was a stript abstract; an
wooof woof woooooooof wooooooof wf wof? Wf wof w woooof woooooof; wf

unfractioned integral; uncompromised as a new-born babe; living without
woooooooooof woooooof; wooooooooooof wf w wof-woof woof; woooof wooooof

premeditated reference to this world or the next. You might almost
woooooooooof wooooooof wf woof wooof wf wof woof. Wof wooof woooof

say, that this strange uncompromisedness in him involved a sort of
wof, woof woof wooooof wooooooooooooooof wf wof woooooof w woof wf

unintelligence; for in his numerous trades, he did not seem to work so
woooooooooooof; wof wf wof woooooof woooof, wf wof wof woof wf woof wf

much by reason or by instinct, or simply because he had been tutored to
woof wf woooof wf wf woooooof, wf woooof wooooof wf wof woof wooooof wf

it, or by any intermixture of all these, even or uneven; but merely by
wf, wf wf wof woooooooooof wf wof wooof, woof wf woooof; wof woooof wf

a kind of deaf and dumb, spontaneous literal process. He was a pure
w woof wf woof wof woof, wooooooooof wooooof wooooof. Wf wof w woof

manipulator; his brain, if he had ever had one, must have early
wooooooooof; wof wooof, wf wf wof woof wof wof, woof woof wooof

oozed along into the muscles of his fingers. He was like one of
wooof wooof woof wof wooooof wf wof wooooof. Wf wof woof wof wf

those unreasoning but still highly useful, MULTUM IN PARVO, Sheffield
wooof wooooooooof wof wooof woooof woooof, WOOOOF WF WOOOF, Wooooooof

contrivances, assuming the exterior--though a little swelled--of a
woooooooooof, woooooof wof woooooof--woooof w woooof wooooof--wf w

common pocket knife; but containing, not only blades of various sizes,
woooof woooof wooof; wof woooooooof, wof woof woooof wf wooooof wooof,

but also screw-drivers, cork-screws, tweezers, awls, pens, rulers,
wof woof wooof-wooooof, woof-woooof, woooooof, woof, woof, woooof,

nail-filers, countersinkers. So, if his superiors wanted to use the
woof-woooof, woooooooooooof. Wf, wf wof wooooooof woooof wf wof wof

carpenter for a screw-driver, all they had to do was to open that part
wooooooof wof w wooof-woooof, wof woof wof wf wf wof wf woof woof woof

of him, and the screw was fast: or if for tweezers, take him up by the
wf wof, wof wof wooof wof woof: wf wf wof woooooof, woof wof wf wf wof

legs, and there they were.
woof, wof wooof woof woof.




Yet, as previously hinted, this omnitooled, open-and-shut carpenter,
Wof, wf woooooooof woooof, woof woooooooof, woof-wof-woof wooooooof,

was, after all, no mere machine of an automaton. If he did not have a
wof, wooof wof, wf woof wooooof wf wf wooooooof. Wf wf wof wof woof w

common soul in him, he had a subtle something that somehow anomalously
woooof woof wf wof, wf wof w woooof wooooooof woof wooooof wooooooooof

did its duty. What that was, whether essence of quicksilver, or a few
wof wof woof. Woof woof wof, wooooof wooooof wf wooooooooof, wf w wof

drops of hartshorn, there is no telling. But there it was; and there it
wooof wf wooooooof, wooof wf wf wooooof. Wof wooof wf wof; wof wooof wf

had abided for now some sixty years or more. And this it was, this same
wof woooof wof wof woof wooof wooof wf woof. Wof woof wf wof, woof woof

unaccountable, cunning life-principle in him; this it was, that kept
wooooooooooof, wooooof woof-wooooooof wf wof; woof wf wof, woof woof

him a great part of the time soliloquizing; but only like an unreasoning
wof w wooof woof wf wof woof wooooooooooof; wof woof woof wf wooooooooof

wheel, which also hummingly soliloquizes; or rather, his body was a
wooof, wooof woof wooooooof woooooooooof; wf woooof, wof woof wof w

sentry-box and this soliloquizer on guard there, and talking all the
woooof-wof wof woof woooooooooof wf wooof wooof, wof wooooof wof wof

time to keep himself awake.
woof wf woof wooooof wooof.










CHAPTER 108. Ahab and the Carpenter.
WOOOOOF wof. Woof wof wof Wooooooof.




The Deck--First Night Watch.
Wof Woof--Wooof Wooof Wooof.







(CARPENTER STANDING BEFORE HIS VICE-BENCH, AND BY THE LIGHT OF TWO
(WOOOOOOOF WOOOOOOF WOOOOF WOF WOOF-WOOOF, WOF WF WOF WOOOF WF WOF

LANTERNS BUSILY FILING THE IVORY JOIST FOR THE LEG, WHICH JOIST IS
WOOOOOOF WOOOOF WOOOOF WOF WOOOF WOOOF WOF WOF WOF, WOOOF WOOOF WF

FIRMLY FIXED IN THE VICE. SLABS OF IVORY, LEATHER STRAPS, PADS, SCREWS,
WOOOOF WOOOF WF WOF WOOF. WOOOF WF WOOOF, WOOOOOF WOOOOF, WOOF, WOOOOF,

AND VARIOUS TOOLS OF ALL SORTS LYING ABOUT THE BENCH. FORWARD, THE RED
WOF WOOOOOF WOOOF WF WOF WOOOF WOOOF WOOOF WOF WOOOF. WOOOOOF, WOF WOF

FLAME OF THE FORGE IS SEEN, WHERE THE BLACKSMITH IS AT WORK.)
WOOOF WF WOF WOOOF WF WOOF, WOOOF WOF WOOOOOOOOF WF WF WOOF.)







Drat the file, and drat the bone! That is hard which should be soft,
Woof wof woof, wof woof wof woof! Woof wf woof wooof woooof wf woof,

and that is soft which should be hard. So we go, who file old jaws and
wof woof wf woof wooof woooof wf woof. Wf wf wf, wof woof wof woof wof

shinbones. Let's try another. Aye, now, this works better (SNEEZES).
wooooooof. Wof'w wof wooooof. Wof, wof, woof wooof woooof (WOOOOOF).

Halloa, this bone dust is (SNEEZES)--why it's (SNEEZES)--yes it's
Woooof, woof woof woof wf (WOOOOOF)--wof wf'w (WOOOOOF)--wof wf'w

(SNEEZES)--bless my soul, it won't let me speak! This is what an old
(WOOOOOF)--wooof wf woof, wf wof'w wof wf wooof! Woof wf woof wf wof

fellow gets now for working in dead lumber. Saw a live tree, and
woooof woof wof wof wooooof wf woof woooof. Wof w woof woof, wof

you don't get this dust; amputate a live bone, and you don't get it
wof wof'w wof woof woof; woooooof w woof woof, wof wof wof'w wof wf

(SNEEZES). Come, come, you old Smut, there, bear a hand, and let's have
(WOOOOOF). Woof, woof, wof wof Woof, wooof, woof w woof, wof wof'w woof

that ferule and buckle-screw; I'll be ready for them presently. Lucky
woof woooof wof woooof-wooof; W'wf wf wooof wof woof wooooooof. Wooof

now (SNEEZES) there's no knee-joint to make; that might puzzle a little;
wof (WOOOOOF) wooof'w wf woof-wooof wf woof; woof wooof woooof w woooof;

but a mere shinbone--why it's easy as making hop-poles; only I should
wof w woof woooooof--wof wf'w woof wf woooof wof-wooof; woof W woooof

like to put a good finish on. Time, time; if I but only had the time, I
woof wf wof w woof woooof wf. Woof, woof; wf W wof woof wof wof woof, W

could turn him out as neat a leg now as ever (SNEEZES) scraped to a lady
wooof woof wof wof wf woof w wof wof wf woof (WOOOOOF) wooooof wf w woof

in a parlor. Those buckskin legs and calves of legs I've seen in shop
wf w woooof. Wooof woooooof woof wof woooof wf woof W'wf woof wf woof

windows wouldn't compare at all. They soak water, they do; and of
wooooof woooof'w wooooof wf wof. Woof woof wooof, woof wf; wof wf

course get rheumatic, and have to be doctored (SNEEZES) with washes and
woooof wof wooooooof, wof woof wf wf woooooof (WOOOOOF) woof woooof wof

lotions, just like live legs. There; before I saw it off, now, I must
wooooof, woof woof woof woof. Wooof; woooof W wof wf wof, wof, W woof

call his old Mogulship, and see whether the length will be all right;
woof wof wof Wooooooof, wof wof wooooof wof woooof woof wf wof wooof;

too short, if anything, I guess. Ha! that's the heel; we are in luck;
wof wooof, wf woooooof, W wooof. Wf! woof'w wof woof; wf wof wf woof;

here he comes, or it's somebody else, that's certain.
woof wf wooof, wf wf'w woooooof woof, woof'w wooooof.




AHAB (ADVANCING)
WOOF (WOOOOOOOF)




(DURING THE ENSUING SCENE, THE CARPENTER CONTINUES SNEEZING AT TIMES)
(WOOOOF WOF WOOOOOF WOOOF, WOF WOOOOOOOF WOOOOOOOF WOOOOOOF WF WOOOF)







Well, manmaker!
Woof, woooooof!




Just in time, sir. If the captain pleases, I will now mark the length.
Woof wf woof, wof. Wf wof wooooof wooooof, W woof wof woof wof woooof.

Let me measure, sir.
Wof wf wooooof, wof.




Measured for a leg! good. Well, it's not the first time. About it!
Woooooof wof w wof! woof. Woof, wf'w wof wof wooof woof. Wooof wf!

There; keep thy finger on it. This is a cogent vice thou hast here,
Wooof; woof wof woooof wf wf. Woof wf w woooof woof woof woof woof,

carpenter; let me feel its grip once. So, so; it does pinch some.
wooooooof; wof wf woof wof woof woof. Wf, wf; wf woof wooof woof.




Oh, sir, it will break bones--beware, beware!
Wf, wof, wf woof wooof wooof--woooof, woooof!




No fear; I like a good grip; I like to feel something in this
Wf woof; W woof w woof woof; W woof wf woof wooooooof wf woof

slippery world that can hold, man. What's Prometheus about there?--the
woooooof wooof woof wof woof, wof. Woof'w Woooooooof wooof wooof?--wof

blacksmith, I mean--what's he about?
woooooooof, W woof--woof'w wf wooof?




He must be forging the buckle-screw, sir, now.
Wf woof wf wooooof wof woooof-wooof, wof, wof.




Right. It's a partnership; he supplies the muscle part. He makes a
Wooof. Wf'w w wooooooooof; wf woooooof wof woooof woof. Wf wooof w

fierce red flame there!
woooof wof wooof wooof!




Aye, sir; he must have the white heat for this kind of fine work.
Wof, wof; wf woof woof wof wooof woof wof woof woof wf woof woof.




Um-m. So he must. I do deem it now a most meaning thing, that that
Wf-w. Wf wf woof. W wf woof wf wof w woof wooooof wooof, woof woof

old Greek, Prometheus, who made men, they say, should have been a
wof Wooof, Woooooooof, wof woof wof, woof wof, woooof woof woof w

blacksmith, and animated them with fire; for what's made in fire must
woooooooof, wof woooooof woof woof woof; wof woof'w woof wf woof woof

properly belong to fire; and so hell's probable. How the soot flies!
woooooof woooof wf woof; wof wf woof'w woooooof. Wof wof woof wooof!

This must be the remainder the Greek made the Africans of. Carpenter,
Woof woof wf wof wooooooof wof Wooof woof wof Woooooof wf. Wooooooof,

when he's through with that buckle, tell him to forge a pair of steel
woof wf'w wooooof woof woof woooof, woof wof wf wooof w woof wf wooof

shoulder-blades; there's a pedlar aboard with a crushing pack.
woooooof-woooof; wooof'w w woooof woooof woof w woooooof woof.




Sir?
Wof?




Hold; while Prometheus is about it, I'll order a complete man after a
Woof; wooof Woooooooof wf wooof wf, W'wf wooof w woooooof wof wooof w

desirable pattern. Imprimis, fifty feet high in his socks; then, chest
wooooooof wooooof. Woooooof, wooof woof woof wf wof wooof; woof, wooof

modelled after the Thames Tunnel; then, legs with roots to 'em, to stay
woooooof wooof wof Woooof Woooof; woof, woof woof wooof wf 'wf, wf woof

in one place; then, arms three feet through the wrist; no heart at all,
wf wof wooof; woof, woof wooof woof wooooof wof wooof; wf wooof wf wof,

brass forehead, and about a quarter of an acre of fine brains; and let
wooof woooooof, wof wooof w wooooof wf wf woof wf woof woooof; wof wof

me see--shall I order eyes to see outwards? No, but put a sky-light on
wf wof--wooof W wooof woof wf wof woooooof? Wf, wof wof w wof-wooof wf

top of his head to illuminate inwards. There, take the order, and away.
wof wf wof woof wf woooooooof wooooof. Wooof, woof wof wooof, wof woof.




Now, what's he speaking about, and who's he speaking to, I should like
Wof, woof'w wf woooooof wooof, wof wof'w wf woooooof wf, W woooof woof

to know? Shall I keep standing here? (ASIDE).
wf woof? Wooof W woof woooooof woof? (WOOOF).




'Tis but indifferent architecture to make a blind dome; here's one. No,
'Wof wof wooooooooof woooooooooof wf woof w wooof woof; woof'w wof. Wf,

no, no; I must have a lantern.
wf, wf; W woof woof w wooooof.




Ho, ho! That's it, hey? Here are two, sir; one will serve my turn.
Wf, wf! Woof'w wf, wof? Woof wof wof, wof; wof woof wooof wf woof.




What art thou thrusting that thief-catcher into my face for, man?
Woof wof woof wooooooof woof wooof-wooooof woof wf woof wof, wof?

Thrusted light is worse than presented pistols.
Woooooof wooof wf wooof woof wooooooof wooooof.




I thought, sir, that you spoke to carpenter.
W wooooof, wof, woof wof wooof wf wooooooof.







Carpenter? why that's--but no;--a very tidy, and, I may say,
Wooooooof? wof woof'w--wof wf;--w woof woof, wof, W wof wof,

an extremely gentlemanlike sort of business thou art in here,
wf wooooooof wooooooooooof woof wf woooooof woof wof wf woof,

carpenter;--or would'st thou rather work in clay?
wooooooof;--wf wooof'wf woof woooof woof wf woof?




Sir?--Clay? clay, sir? That's mud; we leave clay to ditchers, sir.
Wof?--Woof? woof, wof? Woof'w wof; wf wooof woof wf woooooof, wof.




The fellow's impious! What art thou sneezing about?
Wof woooof'w wooooof! Woof wof woof woooooof wooof?




Bone is rather dusty, sir.
Woof wf woooof wooof, wof.




Take the hint, then; and when thou art dead, never bury thyself under
Woof wof woof, woof; wof woof woof wof woof, wooof woof wooooof wooof

living people's noses.
woooof woooof'w wooof.




Sir?--oh! ah!--I guess so;--yes--dear!
Wof?--wf! wf!--W wooof wf;--wof--woof!




Look ye, carpenter, I dare say thou callest thyself a right good
Woof wf, wooooooof, W woof wof woof wooooof wooooof w wooof woof

workmanlike workman, eh? Well, then, will it speak thoroughly well
wooooooooof wooooof, wf? Woof, woof, woof wf wooof woooooooof woof

for thy work, if, when I come to mount this leg thou makest, I shall
wof wof woof, wf, woof W woof wf wooof woof wof woof woooof, W wooof

nevertheless feel another leg in the same identical place with it; that
woooooooooof woof wooooof wof wf wof woof wooooooof wooof woof wf; woof

is, carpenter, my old lost leg; the flesh and blood one, I mean. Canst
wf, wooooooof, wf wof woof wof; wof wooof wof wooof wof, W woof. Wooof

thou not drive that old Adam away?
woof wof wooof woof wof Woof woof?




Truly, sir, I begin to understand somewhat now. Yes, I have heard
Wooof, wof, W wooof wf woooooooof woooooof wof. Wof, W woof wooof

something curious on that score, sir; how that a dismasted man never
wooooooof wooooof wf woof wooof, wof; wof woof w wooooooof wof wooof

entirely loses the feeling of his old spar, but it will be still
woooooof wooof wof wooooof wf wof wof woof, wof wf woof wf wooof

pricking him at times. May I humbly ask if it be really so, sir?
woooooof wof wf wooof. Wof W woooof wof wf wf wf woooof wf, wof?




It is, man. Look, put thy live leg here in the place where mine once
Wf wf, wof. Woof, wof wof woof wof woof wf wof wooof wooof woof woof

was; so, now, here is only one distinct leg to the eye, yet two to the
wof; wf, wof, woof wf woof wof woooooof wof wf wof wof, wof wof wf wof

soul. Where thou feelest tingling life; there, exactly there, there to a
woof. Wooof woof wooooof woooooof woof; wooof, wooooof wooof, wooof wf w

hair, do I. Is't a riddle?
woof, wf W. Wf'w w woooof?




I should humbly call it a poser, sir.
W woooof woooof woof wf w wooof, wof.




Hist, then. How dost thou know that some entire, living, thinking thing
Woof, woof. Wof woof woof woof woof woof woooof, woooof, woooooof wooof

may not be invisibly and uninterpenetratingly standing precisely where
wof wof wf wooooooof wof woooooooooooooooooof woooooof wooooooof wooof

thou now standest; aye, and standing there in thy spite? In thy most
woof wof woooooof; wof, wof woooooof wooof wf wof wooof? Wf wof woof

solitary hours, then, dost thou not fear eavesdroppers? Hold, don't
woooooof wooof, woof, woof woof wof woof wooooooooooof? Woof, wof'w

speak! And if I still feel the smart of my crushed leg, though it be now
wooof! Wof wf W wooof woof wof wooof wf wf wooooof wof, woooof wf wf wof

so long dissolved; then, why mayst not thou, carpenter, feel the fiery
wf woof wooooooof; woof, wof wooof wof woof, wooooooof, woof wof wooof

pains of hell for ever, and without a body? Hah!
wooof wf woof wof woof, wof wooooof w woof? Wof!




Good Lord! Truly, sir, if it comes to that, I must calculate over again;
Woof Woof! Wooof, wof, wf wf wooof wf woof, W woof wooooooof woof wooof;

I think I didn't carry a small figure, sir.
W wooof W woof'w wooof w wooof woooof, wof.




Look ye, pudding-heads should never grant premises.--How long before the
Woof wf, wooooof-wooof woooof wooof wooof woooooof.--Wof woof woooof wof

leg is done?
wof wf woof?




Perhaps an hour, sir.
Wooooof wf woof, wof.




Bungle away at it then, and bring it to me (TURNS TO GO). Oh, Life! Here
Woooof woof wf wf woof, wof wooof wf wf wf (WOOOF WF WF). Wf, Woof! Woof

I am, proud as Greek god, and yet standing debtor to this blockhead for
W wf, wooof wf Wooof wof, wof wof woooooof woooof wf woof wooooooof wof

a bone to stand on! Cursed be that mortal inter-indebtedness which will
w woof wf wooof wf! Woooof wf woof woooof wooof-woooooooooof wooof woof

not do away with ledgers. I would be free as air; and I'm down in the
wof wf woof woof wooooof. W wooof wf woof wf wof; wof W'w woof wf wof

whole world's books. I am so rich, I could have given bid for bid with
wooof wooof'w wooof. W wf wf woof, W wooof woof wooof wof wof wof woof

the wealthiest Praetorians at the auction of the Roman empire (which was
wof woooooooof Wooooooooof wf wof wooooof wf wof Wooof woooof (wooof wof

the world's); and yet I owe for the flesh in the tongue I brag with. By
wof wooof'w); wof wof W wof wof wof wooof wf wof woooof W woof woof. Wf

heavens! I'll get a crucible, and into it, and dissolve myself down to
wooooof! W'wf wof w woooooof, wof woof wf, wof woooooof woooof woof wf

one small, compendious vertebra. So.
wof wooof, wooooooooof woooooof. Wf.




CARPENTER (RESUMING HIS WORK).
WOOOOOOOF (WOOOOOOF WOF WOOF).







Well, well, well! Stubb knows him best of all, and Stubb always says
Woof, woof, woof! Wooof wooof wof woof wf wof, wof Wooof woooof woof

he's queer; says nothing but that one sufficient little word queer; he's
wf'w wooof; woof wooooof wof woof wof woooooooof woooof woof wooof; wf'w

queer, says Stubb; he's queer--queer, queer; and keeps dinning it into
wooof, woof Wooof; wf'w wooof--wooof, wooof; wof wooof wooooof wf woof

Mr. Starbuck all the time--queer--sir--queer, queer, very queer. And
Wf. Woooooof wof wof woof--wooof--wof--wooof, wooof, woof wooof. Wof

here's his leg! Yes, now that I think of it, here's his bedfellow! has
woof'w wof wof! Wof, wof woof W wooof wf wf, woof'w wof wooooooof! wof

a stick of whale's jaw-bone for a wife! And this is his leg; he'll stand
w wooof wf wooof'w wof-woof wof w woof! Wof woof wf wof wof; wf'wf wooof

on this. What was that now about one leg standing in three places, and
wf woof. Woof wof woof wof wooof wof wof woooooof wf wooof woooof, wof

all three places standing in one hell--how was that? Oh! I don't wonder
wof wooof woooof woooooof wf wof woof--wof wof woof? Wf! W wof'w woooof

he looked so scornful at me! I'm a sort of strange-thoughted sometimes,
wf woooof wf woooooof wf wf! W'w w woof wf wooooof-wooooooof wooooooof,

they say; but that's only haphazard-like. Then, a short, little old body
woof wof; wof woof'w woof wooooooof-woof. Woof, w wooof, woooof wof woof

like me, should never undertake to wade out into deep waters with tall,
woof wf, woooof wooof wooooooof wf woof wof woof woof woooof woof woof,

heron-built captains; the water chucks you under the chin pretty quick,
wooof-wooof woooooof; wof wooof woooof wof wooof wof woof woooof wooof,

and there's a great cry for life-boats. And here's the heron's leg!
wof wooof'w w wooof wof wof woof-wooof. Wof woof'w wof wooof'w wof!

long and slim, sure enough! Now, for most folks one pair of legs lasts
woof wof woof, woof woooof! Wof, wof woof wooof wof woof wf woof wooof

a lifetime, and that must be because they use them mercifully, as a
w woooooof, wof woof woof wf wooooof woof wof woof woooooooof, wf w

tender-hearted old lady uses her roly-poly old coach-horses. But Ahab;
woooof-wooooof wof woof woof wof woof-woof wof wooof-woooof. Wof Woof;

oh he's a hard driver. Look, driven one leg to death, and spavined the
wf wf'w w woof woooof. Woof, woooof wof wof wf wooof, wof woooooof wof

other for life, and now wears out bone legs by the cord. Halloa, there,
wooof wof woof, wof wof wooof wof woof woof wf wof woof. Woooof, wooof,

you Smut! bear a hand there with those screws, and let's finish it
wof Woof! woof w woof wooof woof wooof woooof, wof wof'w woooof wf

before the resurrection fellow comes a-calling with his horn for
woooof wof woooooooooof woooof wooof w-wooooof woof wof woof wof

all legs, true or false, as brewery-men go round collecting old beer
wof woof, woof wf wooof, wf wooooof-wof wf wooof woooooooof wof woof

barrels, to fill 'em up again. What a leg this is! It looks like a real
wooooof, wf woof 'wf wf wooof. Woof w wof woof wf! Wf wooof woof w woof

live leg, filed down to nothing but the core; he'll be standing on this
woof wof, wooof woof wf wooooof wof wof woof; wf'wf wf woooooof wf woof

to-morrow; he'll be taking altitudes on it. Halloa! I almost forgot the
wf-woooof; wf'wf wf woooof wooooooof wf wf. Woooof! W woooof woooof wof

little oval slate, smoothed ivory, where he figures up the latitude. So,
woooof woof wooof, woooooof wooof, wooof wf wooooof wf wof woooooof. Wf,

so; chisel, file, and sand-paper, now!
wf; woooof, woof, wof woof-wooof, wof!










CHAPTER 109. Ahab and Starbuck in the Cabin.
WOOOOOF wof. Woof wof Woooooof wf wof Wooof.







According to usage they were pumping the ship next morning; and lo! no
Wooooooof wf wooof woof woof wooooof wof woof woof wooooof; wof wf! wf

inconsiderable oil came up with the water; the casks below must have
woooooooooooof wof woof wf woof wof wooof; wof wooof wooof woof woof

sprung a bad leak. Much concern was shown; and Starbuck went down into
woooof w wof woof. Woof wooooof wof wooof; wof Woooooof woof woof woof

the cabin to report this unfavourable affair.*
wof wooof wf woooof woof woooooooooof woooof.*







*In Sperm-whalemen with any considerable quantity of oil on board, it
*Wf Wooof-woooooof woof wof woooooooooof woooooof wf wof wf wooof, wf

is a regular semiweekly duty to conduct a hose into the hold, and drench
wf w wooooof woooooooof woof wf wooooof w woof woof wof woof, wof woooof

the casks with sea-water; which afterwards, at varying intervals, is
wof wooof woof wof-wooof; wooof woooooooof, wf wooooof wooooooof, wf

removed by the ship's pumps. Hereby the casks are sought to be kept
wooooof wf wof woof'w wooof. Woooof wof wooof wof woooof wf wf woof

damply tight; while by the changed character of the withdrawn water, the
woooof wooof; wooof wf wof wooooof wooooooof wf wof wooooooof wooof, wof

mariners readily detect any serious leakage in the precious cargo.
woooooof wooooof woooof wof wooooof wooooof wf wof woooooof wooof.







Now, from the South and West the Pequod was drawing nigh to Formosa and
Wof, woof wof Wooof wof Woof wof Woooof wof wooooof woof wf Wooooof wof

the Bashee Isles, between which lies one of the tropical outlets from
wof Woooof Wooof, wooooof wooof woof wof wf wof woooooof wooooof woof

the China waters into the Pacific. And so Starbuck found Ahab with
wof Wooof woooof woof wof Wooooof. Wof wf Woooooof wooof Woof woof

a general chart of the oriental archipelagoes spread before him;
w wooooof wooof wf wof woooooof wooooooooooof woooof woooof wof;

and another separate one representing the long eastern coasts of the
wof wooooof woooooof wof woooooooooof wof woof wooooof woooof wf wof

Japanese islands--Niphon, Matsmai, and Sikoke. With his snow-white new
Woooooof wooooof--Woooof, Wooooof, wof Woooof. Woof wof woof-wooof wof

ivory leg braced against the screwed leg of his table, and with a long
wooof wof woooof wooooof wof wooooof wof wf wof wooof, wof woof w woof

pruning-hook of a jack-knife in his hand, the wondrous old man, with his
wooooof-woof wf w woof-wooof wf wof woof, wof woooooof wof wof, woof wof

back to the gangway door, was wrinkling his brow, and tracing his old
woof wf wof wooooof woof, wof wooooooof wof woof, wof wooooof wof wof

courses again.
wooooof wooof.




"Who's there?" hearing the footstep at the door, but not turning round
"Wof'w wooof?" wooooof wof woooooof wf wof woof, wof wof wooooof wooof

to it. "On deck! Begone!"
wf wf. "Wf woof! Woooof!"




"Captain Ahab mistakes; it is I. The oil in the hold is leaking, sir. We
"Wooooof Woof woooooof; wf wf W. Wof wof wf wof woof wf wooooof, wof. Wf

must up Burtons and break out."
woof wf Wooooof wof wooof wof."




"Up Burtons and break out? Now that we are nearing Japan; heave-to here
"Wf Wooooof wof wooof wof? Wof woof wf wof wooooof Wooof; wooof-wf woof

for a week to tinker a parcel of old hoops?"
wof w woof wf woooof w woooof wf wof wooof?"




"Either do that, sir, or waste in one day more oil than we may make good
"Woooof wf woof, wof, wf wooof wf wof wof woof wof woof wf wof woof woof

in a year. What we come twenty thousand miles to get is worth saving,
wf w woof. Woof wf woof woooof woooooof wooof wf wof wf wooof woooof,

sir."
wof."




"So it is, so it is; if we get it."
"Wf wf wf, wf wf wf; wf wf wof wf."




"I was speaking of the oil in the hold, sir."
"W wof woooooof wf wof wof wf wof woof, wof."




"And I was not speaking or thinking of that at all. Begone! Let it leak!
"Wof W wof wof woooooof wf woooooof wf woof wf wof. Woooof! Wof wf woof!

I'm all aleak myself. Aye! leaks in leaks! not only full of leaky casks,
W'w wof wooof woooof. Wof! wooof wf wooof! wof woof woof wf wooof wooof,

but those leaky casks are in a leaky ship; and that's a far worse plight
wof wooof wooof wooof wof wf w wooof woof; wof woof'w w wof wooof woooof

than the Pequod's, man. Yet I don't stop to plug my leak; for who can
woof wof Woooof'w, wof. Wof W wof'w woof wf woof wf woof; wof wof wof

find it in the deep-loaded hull; or how hope to plug it, even if
woof wf wf wof woof-woooof woof; wf wof woof wf woof wf, woof wf

found, in this life's howling gale? Starbuck! I'll not have the Burtons
wooof, wf woof woof'w wooooof woof? Woooooof! W'wf wof woof wof Wooooof

hoisted."
wooooof."




"What will the owners say, sir?"
"Woof woof wof woooof wof, wof?"




"Let the owners stand on Nantucket beach and outyell the Typhoons. What
"Wof wof woooof wooof wf Wooooooof wooof wof wooooof wof Woooooof. Woof

cares Ahab? Owners, owners? Thou art always prating to me, Starbuck,
wooof Woof? Woooof, woooof? Woof wof woooof wooooof wf wf, Woooooof,

about those miserly owners, as if the owners were my conscience. But
wooof wooof wooooof woooof, wf wf wof woooof woof wf woooooooof. Wof

look ye, the only real owner of anything is its commander; and hark ye,
woof wf, wof woof woof wooof wf woooooof wf wof wooooooof; wof woof wf,

my conscience is in this ship's keel.--On deck!"
wf woooooooof wf wf woof woof'w woof.--Wf woof!"




"Captain Ahab," said the reddening mate, moving further into the cabin,
"Wooooof Woof," woof wof wooooooof woof, woooof wooooof woof wof wooof,

with a daring so strangely respectful and cautious that it almost seemed
woof w woooof wf wooooooof woooooooof wof woooooof woof wf woooof woooof

not only every way seeking to avoid the slightest outward manifestation
wof woof wooof wof wooooof wf wooof wof wooooooof wooooof wooooooooooof

of itself, but within also seemed more than half distrustful of itself;
wf woooof, wof woooof woof woooof woof woof woof wooooooooof wf woooof;

"A better man than I might well pass over in thee what he would quickly
"W woooof wof woof W wooof woof woof woof wf woof woof wf wooof wooooof

enough resent in a younger man; aye, and in a happier, Captain Ahab."
woooof woooof wf w wooooof wof; wof, wof wf w wooooof, Wooooof Woof."




"Devils! Dost thou then so much as dare to critically think of me?--On
"Woooof! Woof woof woof wf woof wf woof wf woooooooof wooof wf wf?--Wf

deck!"
woof!"




"Nay, sir, not yet; I do entreat. And I do dare, sir--to be forbearing!
"Wof, wof, wof wof; W wf wooooof. Wof W wf woof, wof--wf wf woooooooof!

Shall we not understand each other better than hitherto, Captain Ahab?"
Wooof wf wof woooooooof woof wooof woooof woof woooooof, Wooooof Woof?"




Ahab seized a loaded musket from the rack (forming part of most
Woof woooof w woooof woooof woof wof woof (wooooof woof wf woof

South-Sea-men's cabin furniture), and pointing it towards Starbuck,
Wooof-Wof-wof'w wooof wooooooof), wof woooooof wf wooooof Woooooof,

exclaimed: "There is one God that is Lord over the earth, and one
wooooooof: "Wooof wf wof Wof woof wf Woof woof wof wooof, wof wof

Captain that is lord over the Pequod.--On deck!"
Wooooof woof wf woof woof wof Woooof.--Wf woof!"




For an instant in the flashing eyes of the mate, and his fiery cheeks,
Wof wf wooooof wf wof woooooof woof wf wof woof, wof wof wooof woooof,

you would have almost thought that he had really received the blaze of
wof wooof woof woooof wooooof woof wf wof woooof woooooof wof wooof wf

the levelled tube. But, mastering his emotion, he half calmly rose,
wof woooooof woof. Wof, wooooooof wof wooooof, wf woof woooof woof,

and as he quitted the cabin, paused for an instant and said: "Thou hast
wof wf wf wooooof wof wooof, woooof wof wf wooooof wof woof: "Woof woof

outraged, not insulted me, sir; but for that I ask thee not to beware of
woooooof, wof woooooof wf, wof; wof wof woof W wof woof wof wf woooof wf

Starbuck; thou wouldst but laugh; but let Ahab beware of Ahab; beware of
Woooooof; woof wooooof wof wooof; wof wof Woof woooof wf Woof; woooof wf

thyself, old man."
wooooof, wof wof."




"He waxes brave, but nevertheless obeys; most careful bravery that!"
"Wf wooof wooof, wof woooooooooof wooof; woof wooooof wooooof woof!"

murmured Ahab, as Starbuck disappeared. "What's that he said--Ahab
woooooof Woof, wf Woooooof wooooooooof. "Woof'w woof wf woof--Woof

beware of Ahab--there's something there!" Then unconsciously using the
woooof wf Woof--wooof'w wooooooof wooof!" Woof wooooooooooof wooof wof

musket for a staff, with an iron brow he paced to and fro in the little
woooof wof w wooof, woof wf woof woof wf wooof wf wof wof wf wof woooof

cabin; but presently the thick plaits of his forehead relaxed, and
wooof; wof wooooooof wof wooof woooof wf wof woooooof wooooof, wof

returning the gun to the rack, he went to the deck.
wooooooof wof wof wf wof woof, wf woof wf wof woof.




"Thou art but too good a fellow, Starbuck," he said lowly to the mate;
"Woof wof wof wof woof w woooof, Woooooof," wf woof wooof wf wof woof;

then raising his voice to the crew: "Furl the t'gallant-sails, and
woof wooooof wof wooof wf wof woof: "Woof wof w'wooooof-wooof, wof

close-reef the top-sails, fore and aft; back the main-yard; up Burton,
wooof-woof wof wof-wooof, woof wof wof; woof wof woof-woof; wf Woooof,

and break out in the main-hold."
wof wooof wof wf wof woof-woof."




It were perhaps vain to surmise exactly why it was, that as respecting
Wf woof wooooof woof wf wooooof wooooof wof wf wof, woof wf woooooooof

Starbuck, Ahab thus acted. It may have been a flash of honesty in him;
Woooooof, Woof woof wooof. Wf wof woof woof w wooof wf wooooof wf wof;

or mere prudential policy which, under the circumstance, imperiously
wf woof woooooooof woooof wooof, wooof wof woooooooooof, wooooooooof

forbade the slightest symptom of open disaffection, however transient,
wooooof wof wooooooof wooooof wf woof woooooooooof, wooooof wooooooof,

in the important chief officer of his ship. However it was, his orders
wf wof wooooooof wooof wooooof wf wof woof. Wooooof wf wof, wof woooof

were executed; and the Burtons were hoisted.
woof woooooof; wof wof Wooooof woof wooooof.










CHAPTER 110. Queequeg in His Coffin.
WOOOOOF wof. Woooooof wf Wof Woooof.







Upon searching, it was found that the casks last struck into the hold
Woof wooooooof, wf wof wooof woof wof wooof woof woooof woof wof woof

were perfectly sound, and that the leak must be further off. So, it
woof wooooooof wooof, wof woof wof woof woof wf wooooof wof. Wf, wf

being calm weather, they broke out deeper and deeper, disturbing the
wooof woof wooooof, woof wooof wof woooof wof woooof, woooooooof wof

slumbers of the huge ground-tier butts; and from that black midnight
woooooof wf wof woof woooof-woof wooof; wof woof woof wooof woooooof

sending those gigantic moles into the daylight above. So deep did they
wooooof wooof woooooof wooof woof wof woooooof wooof. Wf woof wof woof

go; and so ancient, and corroded, and weedy the aspect of the lowermost
wf; wof wf wooooof, wof woooooof, wof wooof wof woooof wf wof wooooooof

puncheons, that you almost looked next for some mouldy corner-stone cask
wooooooof, woof wof woooof woooof woof wof woof woooof woooof-wooof woof

containing coins of Captain Noah, with copies of the posted placards,
woooooooof wooof wf Wooooof Woof, woof woooof wf wof woooof woooooof,

vainly warning the infatuated old world from the flood. Tierce after
woooof wooooof wof woooooooof wof wooof woof wof wooof. Woooof wooof

tierce, too, of water, and bread, and beef, and shooks of staves, and
woooof, wof, wf wooof, wof wooof, wof woof, wof woooof wf woooof, wof

iron bundles of hoops, were hoisted out, till at last the piled decks
woof wooooof wf wooof, woof wooooof wof, woof wf woof wof wooof wooof

were hard to get about; and the hollow hull echoed under foot, as if
woof woof wf wof wooof; wof wof woooof woof woooof wooof woof, wf wf

you were treading over empty catacombs, and reeled and rolled in the sea
wof woof woooooof woof wooof wooooooof, wof woooof wof woooof wf wof wof

like an air-freighted demijohn. Top-heavy was the ship as a dinnerless
woof wf wof-wooooooof woooooof. Wof-wooof wof wof woof wf w woooooooof

student with all Aristotle in his head. Well was it that the Typhoons
wooooof woof wof Wooooooof wf wof woof. Woof wof wf woof wof Woooooof

did not visit them then.
wof wof wooof woof woof.




Now, at this time it was that my poor pagan companion, and fast
Wof, wf woof woof wf wof woof wf woof wooof wooooooof, wof woof

bosom-friend, Queequeg, was seized with a fever, which brought him nigh
wooof-woooof, Woooooof, wof woooof woof w wooof, wooof wooooof wof woof

to his endless end.
wf wof wooooof wof.




Be it said, that in this vocation of whaling, sinecures are unknown;
Wf wf woof, woof wf woof woooooof wf wooooof, wooooooof wof wooooof;

dignity and danger go hand in hand; till you get to be Captain, the
wooooof wof woooof wf woof wf woof; woof wof wof wf wf Wooooof, wof

higher you rise the harder you toil. So with poor Queequeg, who, as
woooof wof woof wof woooof wof woof. Wf woof woof Woooooof, wof, wf

harpooneer, must not only face all the rage of the living whale, but--as
woooooooof, woof wof woof woof wof wof woof wf wof woooof wooof, wof--wf

we have elsewhere seen--mount his dead back in a rolling sea; and
wf woof wooooooof woof--wooof wof woof woof wf w wooooof wof; wof

finally descend into the gloom of the hold, and bitterly sweating
wooooof wooooof woof wof wooof wf wof woof, wof woooooof woooooof

all day in that subterraneous confinement, resolutely manhandle the
wof wof wf woof wooooooooooof wooooooooof, woooooooof wooooooof wof

clumsiest casks and see to their stowage. To be short, among whalemen,
wooooooof wooof wof wof wf wooof wooooof. Wf wf wooof, wooof woooooof,

the harpooneers are the holders, so called.
wof wooooooooof wof wof wooooof, wf woooof.




Poor Queequeg! when the ship was about half disembowelled, you should
Woof Woooooof! woof wof woof wof wooof woof wooooooooooof, wof woooof

have stooped over the hatchway, and peered down upon him there; where,
woof wooooof woof wof woooooof, wof woooof woof woof wof wooof; wooof,

stripped to his woollen drawers, the tattooed savage was crawling about
woooooof wf wof wooooof wooooof, wof woooooof woooof wof woooooof wooof

amid that dampness and slime, like a green spotted lizard at the bottom
woof woof woooooof wof wooof, woof w wooof wooooof woooof wf wof woooof

of a well. And a well, or an ice-house, it somehow proved to him, poor
wf w woof. Wof w woof, wf wf wof-wooof, wf wooooof woooof wf wof, woof

pagan; where, strange to say, for all the heat of his sweatings, he
wooof; wooof, wooooof wf wof, wof wof wof woof wf wof wooooooof, wf

caught a terrible chill which lapsed into a fever; and at last, after
woooof w woooooof wooof wooof woooof woof w wooof; wof wf woof, wooof

some days' suffering, laid him in his hammock, close to the very sill
woof woof' wooooooof, woof wof wf wof wooooof, wooof wf wof woof woof

of the door of death. How he wasted and wasted away in those few
wf wof woof wf wooof. Wof wf woooof wof woooof woof wf wooof wof

long-lingering days, till there seemed but little left of him but his
woof-wooooooof woof, woof wooof woooof wof woooof woof wf wof wof wof

frame and tattooing. But as all else in him thinned, and his cheek-bones
wooof wof wooooooof. Wof wf wof woof wf wof wooooof, wof wof wooof-wooof

grew sharper, his eyes, nevertheless, seemed growing fuller and fuller;
woof wooooof, wof woof, woooooooooof, woooof wooooof woooof wof woooof;

they became of a strange softness of lustre; and mildly but deeply
woof woooof wf w wooooof woooooof wf woooof; wof woooof wof woooof

looked out at you there from his sickness, a wondrous testimony to that
woooof wof wf wof wooof woof wof woooooof, w woooooof wooooooof wf woof

immortal health in him which could not die, or be weakened. And like
woooooof woooof wf wof wooof wooof wof wof, wf wf woooooof. Wof woof

circles on the water, which, as they grow fainter, expand; so his eyes
wooooof wf wof wooof, wooof, wf woof woof wooooof, woooof; wf wof woof

seemed rounding and rounding, like the rings of Eternity. An awe that
woooof woooooof wof woooooof, woof wof wooof wf Woooooof. Wf wof woof

cannot be named would steal over you as you sat by the side of this
woooof wf wooof wooof wooof woof wof wf wof wof wf wof woof wf woof

waning savage, and saw as strange things in his face, as any beheld who
woooof woooof, wof wof wf wooooof woooof wf wof woof, wf wof woooof wof

were bystanders when Zoroaster died. For whatever is truly wondrous and
woof woooooooof woof Wooooooof woof. Wof woooooof wf wooof woooooof wof

fearful in man, never yet was put into words or books. And the drawing
wooooof wf wof, wooof wof wof wof woof wooof wf wooof. Wof wof wooooof

near of Death, which alike levels all, alike impresses all with a last
woof wf Wooof, wooof wooof woooof wof, wooof wooooooof wof woof w woof

revelation, which only an author from the dead could adequately tell.
woooooooof, wooof woof wf woooof woof wof woof wooof woooooooof woof.

So that--let us say it again--no dying Chaldee or Greek had higher and
Wf woof--wof wf wof wf wooof--wf wooof Wooooof wf Wooof wof woooof wof

holier thoughts than those, whose mysterious shades you saw creeping
woooof woooooof woof wooof, wooof woooooooof woooof wof wof woooooof

over the face of poor Queequeg, as he quietly lay in his swaying
woof wof woof wf woof Woooooof, wf wf wooooof wof wf wof wooooof

hammock, and the rolling sea seemed gently rocking him to his final
wooooof, wof wof wooooof wof woooof woooof wooooof wof wf wof wooof

rest, and the ocean's invisible flood-tide lifted him higher and higher
woof, wof wof wooof'w wooooooof wooof-woof woooof wof woooof wof woooof

towards his destined heaven.
wooooof wof woooooof woooof.




Not a man of the crew but gave him up; and, as for Queequeg himself,
Wof w wof wf wof woof wof woof wof wf; wof, wf wof Woooooof wooooof,

what he thought of his case was forcibly shown by a curious favour he
woof wf wooooof wf wof woof wof woooooof wooof wf w wooooof woooof wf

asked. He called one to him in the grey morning watch, when the day was
wooof. Wf woooof wof wf wof wf wof woof wooooof wooof, woof wof wof wof

just breaking, and taking his hand, said that while in Nantucket he
woof woooooof, wof woooof wof woof, woof woof wooof wf Wooooooof wf

had chanced to see certain little canoes of dark wood, like the rich
wof wooooof wf wof wooooof woooof woooof wf woof woof, woof wof woof

war-wood of his native isle; and upon inquiry, he had learned that all
wof-woof wf wof woooof woof; wof woof wooooof, wf wof wooooof woof wof

whalemen who died in Nantucket, were laid in those same dark canoes,
woooooof wof woof wf Wooooooof, woof woof wf wooof woof woof woooof,

and that the fancy of being so laid had much pleased him; for it was not
wof woof wof wooof wf wooof wf woof wof woof wooooof wof; wof wf wof wof

unlike the custom of his own race, who, after embalming a dead warrior,
woooof wof woooof wf wof wof woof, wof, wooof wooooooof w woof wooooof,

stretched him out in his canoe, and so left him to be floated away to
wooooooof wof wof wf wof wooof, wof wf woof wof wf wf wooooof woof wf

the starry archipelagoes; for not only do they believe that the stars
wof woooof wooooooooooof; wof wof woof wf woof wooooof woof wof wooof

are isles, but that far beyond all visible horizons, their own mild,
wof wooof, wof woof wof woooof wof wooooof woooooof, wooof wof woof,

uncontinented seas, interflow with the blue heavens; and so form the
wooooooooooof woof, wooooooof woof wof woof wooooof; wof wf woof wof

white breakers of the milky way. He added, that he shuddered at
wooof woooooof wf wof wooof wof. Wf wooof, woof wf wooooooof wf

the thought of being buried in his hammock, according to the usual
wof wooooof wf wooof woooof wf wof wooooof, wooooooof wf wof wooof

sea-custom, tossed like something vile to the death-devouring sharks.
wof-woooof, woooof woof wooooooof woof wf wof wooof-wooooooof woooof.

No: he desired a canoe like those of Nantucket, all the more congenial
Wf: wf wooooof w wooof woof wooof wf Wooooooof, wof wof woof wooooooof

to him, being a whaleman, that like a whale-boat these coffin-canoes
wf wof, wooof w woooooof, woof woof w wooof-woof wooof woooof-woooof

were without a keel; though that involved but uncertain steering, and
woof wooooof w woof; woooof woof woooooof wof wooooooof woooooof, wof

much lee-way adown the dim ages.
woof wof-wof wooof wof wof woof.




Now, when this strange circumstance was made known aft, the carpenter
Wof, woof woof wooooof woooooooooof wof woof wooof wof, wof wooooooof

was at once commanded to do Queequeg's bidding, whatever it might
wof wf woof wooooooof wf wf Woooooof'w wooooof, woooooof wf wooof

include. There was some heathenish, coffin-coloured old lumber aboard,
wooooof. Wooof wof woof woooooooof, woooof-woooooof wof woooof woooof,

which, upon a long previous voyage, had been cut from the aboriginal
wooof, woof w woof woooooof woooof, wof woof wof woof wof woooooooof

groves of the Lackaday islands, and from these dark planks the coffin
woooof wf wof Woooooof wooooof, wof woof wooof woof woooof wof woooof

was recommended to be made. No sooner was the carpenter apprised of
wof wooooooooof wf wf woof. Wf woooof wof wof wooooooof woooooof wf

the order, than taking his rule, he forthwith with all the indifferent
wof wooof, woof woooof wof woof, wf wooooooof woof wof wof wooooooooof

promptitude of his character, proceeded into the forecastle and took
wooooooooof wf wof wooooooof, wooooooof woof wof woooooooof wof woof

Queequeg's measure with great accuracy, regularly chalking Queequeg's
Woooooof'w wooooof woof wooof woooooof, wooooooof woooooof Woooooof'w

person as he shifted the rule.
woooof wf wf wooooof wof woof.




"Ah! poor fellow! he'll have to die now," ejaculated the Long Island
"Wf! woof woooof! wf'wf woof wf wof wof," woooooooof wof Woof Woooof

sailor.
woooof.




Going to his vice-bench, the carpenter for convenience sake and general
Wooof wf wof woof-wooof, wof wooooooof wof wooooooooof woof wof wooooof

reference, now transferringly measured on it the exact length the coffin
wooooooof, wof woooooooooooof woooooof wf wf wof wooof woooof wof woooof

was to be, and then made the transfer permanent by cutting two notches
wof wf wf, wof woof woof wof woooooof wooooooof wf wooooof wof wooooof

at its extremities. This done, he marshalled the planks and his tools,
wf wof wooooooooof. Woof woof, wf woooooooof wof woooof wof wof wooof,

and to work.
wof wf woof.




When the last nail was driven, and the lid duly planed and fitted,
Woof wof woof woof wof woooof, wof wof wof woof woooof wof woooof,

he lightly shouldered the coffin and went forward with it, inquiring
wf wooooof woooooooof wof woooof wof woof wooooof woof wf, wooooooof

whether they were ready for it yet in that direction.
wooooof woof woof wooof wof wf wof wf woof wooooooof.




Overhearing the indignant but half-humorous cries with which the
Wooooooooof wof wooooooof wof woof-woooooof wooof woof wooof wof

people on deck began to drive the coffin away, Queequeg, to every one's
woooof wf woof wooof wf wooof wof woooof woof, Woooooof, wf wooof wof'w

consternation, commanded that the thing should be instantly brought to
wooooooooooof, wooooooof woof wof wooof woooof wf wooooooof wooooof wf

him, nor was there any denying him; seeing that, of all mortals, some
wof, wof wof wooof wof wooooof wof; woooof woof, wf wof wooooof, woof

dying men are the most tyrannical; and certainly, since they will
wooof wof wof wof woof woooooooof; wof wooooooof, wooof woof woof

shortly trouble us so little for evermore, the poor fellows ought to be
wooooof wooooof wf wf woooof wof woooooof, wof woof wooooof wooof wf wf

indulged.
woooooof.




Leaning over in his hammock, Queequeg long regarded the coffin with
Wooooof woof wf wof wooooof, Woooooof woof woooooof wof woooof woof

an attentive eye. He then called for his harpoon, had the wooden stock
wf wooooooof wof. Wf woof woooof wof wof wooooof, wof wof woooof wooof

drawn from it, and then had the iron part placed in the coffin along
wooof woof wf, wof woof wof wof woof woof woooof wf wof woooof wooof

with one of the paddles of his boat. All by his own request, also,
woof wof wf wof wooooof wf wof woof. Wof wf wof wof wooooof, woof,

biscuits were then ranged round the sides within: a flask of fresh water
woooooof woof woof woooof wooof wof wooof woooof: w wooof wf wooof wooof

was placed at the head, and a small bag of woody earth scraped up in
wof woooof wf wof woof, wof w wooof wof wf wooof wooof wooooof wf wf

the hold at the foot; and a piece of sail-cloth being rolled up for a
wof woof wf wof woof; wof w wooof wf woof-wooof wooof woooof wf wof w

pillow, Queequeg now entreated to be lifted into his final bed, that he
woooof, Woooooof wof wooooooof wf wf woooof woof wof wooof wof, woof wf

might make trial of its comforts, if any it had. He lay without moving
wooof woof wooof wf wof woooooof, wf wof wf wof. Wf wof wooooof woooof

a few minutes, then told one to go to his bag and bring out his little
w wof wooooof, woof woof wof wf wf wf wof wof wof wooof wof wof woooof

god, Yojo. Then crossing his arms on his breast with Yojo between, he
wof, Woof. Woof woooooof wof woof wf wof woooof woof Woof wooooof, wf

called for the coffin lid (hatch he called it) to be placed over him.
woooof wof wof woooof wof (wooof wf woooof wf) wf wf woooof woof wof.

The head part turned over with a leather hinge, and there lay Queequeg
Wof woof woof woooof woof woof w wooooof wooof, wof wooof wof Woooooof

in his coffin with little but his composed countenance in view. "Rarmai"
wf wof woooof woof woooof wof wof woooooof wooooooooof wf woof. "Woooof"

(it will do; it is easy), he murmured at last, and signed to be replaced
(wf woof wf; wf wf woof), wf woooooof wf woof, wof woooof wf wf woooooof

in his hammock.
wf wof wooooof.




But ere this was done, Pip, who had been slily hovering near by all this
Wof wof woof wof woof, Wof, wof wof woof wooof woooooof woof wf wof woof

while, drew nigh to him where he lay, and with soft sobbings, took him
wooof, woof woof wf wof wooof wf wof, wof woof woof woooooof, woof wof

by the hand; in the other, holding his tambourine.
wf wof woof; wf wof wooof, wooooof wof woooooooof.




"Poor rover! will ye never have done with all this weary roving? where
"Woof wooof! woof wf wooof woof woof woof wof woof wooof woooof? wooof

go ye now? But if the currents carry ye to those sweet Antilles where
wf wf wof? Wof wf wof woooooof wooof wf wf wooof wooof Woooooof wooof

the beaches are only beat with water-lilies, will ye do one little
wof wooooof wof woof woof woof wooof-woooof, woof wf wf wof woooof

errand for me? Seek out one Pip, who's now been missing long: I think
woooof wof wf? Woof wof wof Wof, wof'w wof woof wooooof woof: W wooof

he's in those far Antilles. If ye find him, then comfort him; for he
wf'w wf wooof wof Woooooof. Wf wf woof wof, woof wooooof wof; wof wf

must be very sad; for look! he's left his tambourine behind;--I found
woof wf woof wof; wof woof! wf'w woof wof woooooooof woooof;--W wooof

it. Rig-a-dig, dig, dig! Now, Queequeg, die; and I'll beat ye your dying
wf. Wof-w-wof, wof, wof! Wof, Woooooof, wof; wof W'wf woof wf woof wooof

march."
wooof."




"I have heard," murmured Starbuck, gazing down the scuttle, "that in
"W woof wooof," woooooof Woooooof, woooof woof wof wooooof, "woof wf

violent fevers, men, all ignorance, have talked in ancient tongues;
wooooof woooof, wof, wof wooooooof, woof woooof wf wooooof wooooof;

and that when the mystery is probed, it turns out always that in their
wof woof woof wof wooooof wf woooof, wf wooof wof woooof woof wf wooof

wholly forgotten childhood those ancient tongues had been really spoken
woooof wooooooof wooooooof wooof wooooof wooooof wof woof woooof woooof

in their hearing by some lofty scholars. So, to my fond faith, poor Pip,
wf wooof wooooof wf woof wooof woooooof. Wf, wf wf woof wooof, woof Wof,

in this strange sweetness of his lunacy, brings heavenly vouchers of all
wf woof wooooof wooooooof wf wof woooof, woooof woooooof woooooof wf wof

our heavenly homes. Where learned he that, but there?--Hark! he speaks
wof woooooof wooof. Wooof wooooof wf woof, wof wooof?--Woof! wf woooof

again: but more wildly now."
wooof: wof woof woooof wof."




"Form two and two! Let's make a General of him! Ho, where's his harpoon?
"Woof wof wof wof! Wof'w woof w Wooooof wf wof! Wf, wooof'w wof wooooof?

Lay it across here.--Rig-a-dig, dig, dig! huzza! Oh for a game cock
Wof wf woooof woof.--Wof-w-wof, wof, wof! wooof! Wf wof w woof woof

now to sit upon his head and crow! Queequeg dies game!--mind ye that;
wof wf wof woof wof woof wof woof! Woooooof woof woof!--woof wf woof;

Queequeg dies game!--take ye good heed of that; Queequeg dies game! I
Woooooof woof woof!--woof wf woof woof wf woof; Woooooof woof woof! W

say; game, game, game! but base little Pip, he died a coward; died all
wof; woof, woof, woof! wof woof woooof Wof, wf woof w woooof; woof wof

a'shiver;--out upon Pip! Hark ye; if ye find Pip, tell all the Antilles
w'woooof;--wof woof Wof! Woof wf; wf wf woof Wof, woof wof wof Woooooof

he's a runaway; a coward, a coward, a coward! Tell them he jumped from
wf'w w wooooof; w woooof, w woooof, w woooof! Woof woof wf woooof woof

a whale-boat! I'd never beat my tambourine over base Pip, and hail
w wooof-woof! W'w wooof woof wf woooooooof woof woof Wof, wof woof

him General, if he were once more dying here. No, no! shame upon all
wof Wooooof, wf wf woof woof woof wooof woof. Wf, wf! wooof woof wof

cowards--shame upon them! Let 'em go drown like Pip, that jumped from a
wooooof--wooof woof woof! Wof 'wf wf wooof woof Wof, woof woooof woof w

whale-boat. Shame! shame!"
wooof-woof. Wooof! wooof!"




During all this, Queequeg lay with closed eyes, as if in a dream. Pip
Woooof wof woof, Woooooof wof woof woooof woof, wf wf wf w wooof. Wof

was led away, and the sick man was replaced in his hammock.
wof wof woof, wof wof woof wof wof woooooof wf wof wooooof.




But now that he had apparently made every preparation for death; now
Wof wof woof wf wof woooooooof woof wooof wooooooooof wof wooof; wof

that his coffin was proved a good fit, Queequeg suddenly rallied; soon
woof wof woooof wof woooof w woof wof, Woooooof woooooof wooooof; woof

there seemed no need of the carpenter's box: and thereupon, when some
wooof woooof wf woof wf wof wooooooof'w wof: wof wooooooof, woof woof

expressed their delighted surprise, he, in substance, said, that the
wooooooof wooof wooooooof woooooof, wf, wf wooooooof, woof, woof wof

cause of his sudden convalescence was this;--at a critical moment, he
wooof wf wof woooof wooooooooooof wof woof;--wf w woooooof woooof, wf

had just recalled a little duty ashore, which he was leaving undone;
wof woof woooooof w woooof woof woooof, wooof wf wof wooooof woooof;

and therefore had changed his mind about dying: he could not die yet,
wof wooooooof wof wooooof wof woof wooof wooof: wf wooof wof wof wof,

he averred. They asked him, then, whether to live or die was a matter of
wf wooooof. Woof wooof wof, woof, wooooof wf woof wf wof wof w woooof wf

his own sovereign will and pleasure. He answered, certainly. In a word,
wof wof wooooooof woof wof woooooof. Wf woooooof, wooooooof. Wf w woof,

it was Queequeg's conceit, that if a man made up his mind to live, mere
wf wof Woooooof'w wooooof, woof wf w wof woof wf wof woof wf woof, woof

sickness could not kill him: nothing but a whale, or a gale, or some
woooooof wooof wof woof wof: wooooof wof w wooof, wf w woof, wf woof

violent, ungovernable, unintelligent destroyer of that sort.
wooooof, woooooooooof, wooooooooooof wooooooof wf woof woof.




Now, there is this noteworthy difference between savage and civilized;
Wof, wooof wf woof woooooooof woooooooof wooooof woooof wof wooooooof;

that while a sick, civilized man may be six months convalescing,
woof wooof w woof, wooooooof wof wof wf wof woooof woooooooooof,

generally speaking, a sick savage is almost half-well again in a day.
wooooooof woooooof, w woof woooof wf woooof woof-woof wooof wf w wof.

So, in good time my Queequeg gained strength; and at length after
Wf, wf woof woof wf Woooooof woooof woooooof; wof wf woooof wooof

sitting on the windlass for a few indolent days (but eating with a
wooooof wf wof woooooof wof w wof woooooof woof (wof woooof woof w

vigorous appetite) he suddenly leaped to his feet, threw out his arms
woooooof woooooof) wf woooooof woooof wf wof woof, wooof wof wof woof

and legs, gave himself a good stretching, yawned a little bit, and then
wof woof, woof wooooof w woof woooooooof, woooof w woooof wof, wof woof

springing into the head of his hoisted boat, and poising a harpoon,
wooooooof woof wof woof wf wof wooooof woof, wof wooooof w wooooof,

pronounced himself fit for a fight.
woooooooof wooooof wof wof w wooof.




With a wild whimsiness, he now used his coffin for a sea-chest; and
Woof w woof woooooooof, wf wof woof wof woooof wof w wof-wooof; wof

emptying into it his canvas bag of clothes, set them in order there.
woooooof woof wf wof woooof wof wf wooooof, wof woof wf wooof wooof.

Many spare hours he spent, in carving the lid with all manner of
Woof wooof wooof wf wooof, wf wooooof wof wof woof wof woooof wf

grotesque figures and drawings; and it seemed that hereby he was
wooooooof wooooof wof woooooof; wof wf woooof woof woooof wf wof

striving, in his rude way, to copy parts of the twisted tattooing on
woooooof, wf wof woof wof, wf woof wooof wf wof wooooof wooooooof wf

his body. And this tattooing had been the work of a departed prophet and
wof woof. Wof woof wooooooof wof woof wof woof wf w woooooof wooooof wof

seer of his island, who, by those hieroglyphic marks, had written out on
woof wf wof woooof, wof, wf wooof woooooooooof wooof, wof wooooof wof wf

his body a complete theory of the heavens and the earth, and a mystical
wof woof w woooooof woooof wf wof wooooof wof wof wooof, wof w woooooof

treatise on the art of attaining truth; so that Queequeg in his own
woooooof wf wof wof wf wooooooof wooof; wf woof Woooooof wf wof wof

proper person was a riddle to unfold; a wondrous work in one volume; but
woooof woooof wof w woooof wf woooof; w woooooof woof wf wof woooof; wof

whose mysteries not even himself could read, though his own live heart
wooof wooooooof wof woof wooooof wooof woof, woooof wof wof woof wooof

beat against them; and these mysteries were therefore destined in
woof wooooof woof; wof wooof wooooooof woof wooooooof woooooof wf

the end to moulder away with the living parchment whereon they were
wof wof wf wooooof woof woof wof woooof wooooooof wooooof woof woof

inscribed, and so be unsolved to the last. And this thought it must
wooooooof, wof wf wf woooooof wf wof woof. Wof woof wooooof wf woof

have been which suggested to Ahab that wild exclamation of his, when
woof woof wooof wooooooof wf Woof woof woof wooooooooof wf wof, woof

one morning turning away from surveying poor Queequeg--"Oh, devilish
wof wooooof wooooof woof woof wooooooof woof Woooooof--"Wf, woooooof

tantalization of the gods!"
wooooooooooof wf wof woof!"










CHAPTER 111. The Pacific.
WOOOOOF wof. Wof Wooooof.







When gliding by the Bashee isles we emerged at last upon the great South
Woof wooooof wf wof Woooof wooof wf wooooof wf woof woof wof wooof Wooof

Sea; were it not for other things, I could have greeted my dear Pacific
Wof; woof wf wof wof wooof woooof, W wooof woof wooooof wf woof Wooooof

with uncounted thanks, for now the long supplication of my youth was
woof wooooooof woooof, wof wof wof woof woooooooooof wf wf wooof wof

answered; that serene ocean rolled eastwards from me a thousand leagues
woooooof; woof woooof wooof woooof wooooooof woof wf w woooooof wooooof

of blue.
wf woof.




There is, one knows not what sweet mystery about this sea, whose gently
Wooof wf, wof wooof wof woof wooof wooooof wooof woof wof, wooof woooof

awful stirrings seem to speak of some hidden soul beneath; like those
wooof wooooooof woof wf wooof wf woof woooof woof wooooof; woof wooof

fabled undulations of the Ephesian sod over the buried Evangelist St.
woooof wooooooooof wf wof Woooooof wof woof wof woooof Woooooooof Wf.

John. And meet it is, that over these sea-pastures, wide-rolling watery
Woof. Wof woof wf wf, woof woof wooof wof-woooooof, woof-wooooof woooof

prairies and Potters' Fields of all four continents, the waves should
woooooof wof Wooooof' Woooof wf wof woof woooooooof, wof wooof woooof

rise and fall, and ebb and flow unceasingly; for here, millions of mixed
woof wof woof, wof wof wof woof wooooooooof; wof woof, woooooof wf wooof

shades and shadows, drowned dreams, somnambulisms, reveries; all that
woooof wof wooooof, wooooof woooof, wooooooooooof, woooooof; wof woof

we call lives and souls, lie dreaming, dreaming, still; tossing like
wf woof wooof wof wooof, wof woooooof, woooooof, wooof; wooooof woof

slumberers in their beds; the ever-rolling waves but made so by their
woooooooof wf wooof woof; wof woof-wooooof wooof wof woof wf wf wooof

restlessness.
woooooooooof.




To any meditative Magian rover, this serene Pacific, once beheld, must
Wf wof woooooooof Woooof wooof, woof woooof Wooooof, woof woooof, woof

ever after be the sea of his adoption. It rolls the midmost waters of
woof wooof wf wof wof wf wof woooooof. Wf wooof wof wooooof woooof wf

the world, the Indian ocean and Atlantic being but its arms. The same
wof wooof, wof Woooof wooof wof Woooooof wooof wof wof woof. Wof woof

waves wash the moles of the new-built Californian towns, but yesterday
wooof woof wof wooof wf wof wof-wooof Wooooooooof wooof, wof wooooooof

planted by the recentest race of men, and lave the faded but still
wooooof wf wof wooooooof woof wf wof, wof woof wof wooof wof wooof

gorgeous skirts of Asiatic lands, older than Abraham; while all between
woooooof woooof wf Wooooof wooof, wooof woof Wooooof; wooof wof wooooof

float milky-ways of coral isles, and low-lying, endless, unknown
wooof wooof-woof wf wooof wooof, wof wof-wooof, wooooof, wooooof

Archipelagoes, and impenetrable Japans. Thus this mysterious, divine
Wooooooooooof, wof woooooooooof Woooof. Woof woof woooooooof, woooof

Pacific zones the world's whole bulk about; makes all coasts one bay
Wooooof wooof wof wooof'w wooof woof wooof; wooof wof woooof wof wof

to it; seems the tide-beating heart of earth. Lifted by those eternal
wf wf; wooof wof woof-wooooof wooof wf wooof. Woooof wf wooof wooooof

swells, you needs must own the seductive god, bowing your head to Pan.
woooof, wof wooof woof wof wof wooooooof wof, woooof woof woof wf Wof.




But few thoughts of Pan stirred Ahab's brain, as standing like an
Wof wof woooooof wf Wof wooooof Woof'w wooof, wf woooooof woof wf

iron statue at his accustomed place beside the mizen rigging, with one
woof woooof wf wof woooooooof wooof woooof wof wooof wooooof, woof wof

nostril he unthinkingly snuffed the sugary musk from the Bashee isles
wooooof wf woooooooooof wooooof wof woooof woof woof wof Woooof wooof

(in whose sweet woods mild lovers must be walking), and with the other
(wf wooof wooof wooof woof woooof woof wf wooooof), wof woof wof wooof

consciously inhaled the salt breath of the new found sea; that sea in
wooooooooof wooooof wof woof woooof wf wof wof wooof wof; woof wof wf

which the hated White Whale must even then be swimming. Launched at
wooof wof wooof Wooof Wooof woof woof woof wf woooooof. Woooooof wf

length upon these almost final waters, and gliding towards the Japanese
woooof woof wooof woooof wooof woooof, wof wooooof wooooof wof Woooooof

cruising-ground, the old man's purpose intensified itself. His firm lips
woooooof-woooof, wof wof wof'w wooooof wooooooooof woooof. Wof woof woof

met like the lips of a vice; the Delta of his forehead's veins swelled
wof woof wof woof wf w woof; wof Wooof wf wof woooooof'w wooof wooooof

like overladen brooks; in his very sleep, his ringing cry ran through
woof wooooooof woooof; wf wof woof wooof, wof wooooof wof wof wooooof

the vaulted hull, "Stern all! the White Whale spouts thick blood!"
wof wooooof woof, "Wooof wof! wof Wooof Wooof woooof wooof wooof!"










CHAPTER 112. The Blacksmith.
WOOOOOF wof. Wof Woooooooof.







Availing himself of the mild, summer-cool weather that now reigned in
Woooooof wooooof wf wof woof, woooof-woof wooooof woof wof wooooof wf

these latitudes, and in preparation for the peculiarly active
wooof wooooooof, wof wf wooooooooof wof wof woooooooof woooof

pursuits shortly to be anticipated, Perth, the begrimed, blistered old
woooooof wooooof wf wf wooooooooof, Wooof, wof woooooof, wooooooof wof

blacksmith, had not removed his portable forge to the hold again, after
woooooooof, wof wof wooooof wof woooooof wooof wf wof woof wooof, wooof

concluding his contributory work for Ahab's leg, but still retained
woooooooof wof woooooooooof woof wof Woof'w wof, wof wooof woooooof

it on deck, fast lashed to ringbolts by the foremast; being now almost
wf wf woof, woof woooof wf wooooooof wf wof woooooof; wooof wof woooof

incessantly invoked by the headsmen, and harpooneers, and bowsmen to do
wooooooooof wooooof wf wof woooooof, wof wooooooooof, wof wooooof wf wf

some little job for them; altering, or repairing, or new shaping their
woof woooof wof wof woof; woooooof, wf wooooooof, wf wof wooooof wooof

various weapons and boat furniture. Often he would be surrounded by an
wooooof wooooof wof woof wooooooof. Wooof wf wooof wf woooooooof wf wf

eager circle, all waiting to be served; holding boat-spades, pike-heads,
wooof woooof, wof wooooof wf wf woooof; wooooof woof-woooof, woof-wooof,

harpoons, and lances, and jealously watching his every sooty movement,
woooooof, wof woooof, wof wooooooof woooooof wof wooof wooof woooooof,

as he toiled. Nevertheless, this old man's was a patient hammer wielded
wf wf woooof. Woooooooooof, woof wof wof'w wof w wooooof woooof wooooof

by a patient arm. No murmur, no impatience, no petulance did come from
wf w wooooof wof. Wf woooof, wf woooooooof, wf wooooooof wof woof woof

him. Silent, slow, and solemn; bowing over still further his chronically
wof. Woooof, woof, wof woooof; woooof woof wooof wooooof wof wooooooooof

broken back, he toiled away, as if toil were life itself, and the
woooof woof, wf woooof woof, wf wf woof woof woof woooof, wof wof

heavy beating of his hammer the heavy beating of his heart. And so it
wooof wooooof wf wof woooof wof wooof wooooof wf wof wooof. Wof wf wf

was.--Most miserable!
wof.--Woof wooooooof!




A peculiar walk in this old man, a certain slight but painful appearing
W woooooof woof wf woof wof wof, w wooooof woooof wof wooooof wooooooof

yawing in his gait, had at an early period of the voyage excited the
woooof wf wof woof, wof wf wf wooof woooof wf wof woooof wooooof wof

curiosity of the mariners. And to the importunity of their persisted
wooooooof wf wof woooooof. Wof wf wof wooooooooof wf wooof wooooooof

questionings he had finally given in; and so it came to pass that every
woooooooooof wf wof wooooof wooof wf; wof wf wf woof wf woof woof wooof

one now knew the shameful story of his wretched fate.
wof wof woof wof woooooof wooof wf wof woooooof woof.




Belated, and not innocently, one bitter winter's midnight, on the road
Wooooof, wof wof woooooooof, wof woooof woooof'w woooooof, wf wof woof

running between two country towns, the blacksmith half-stupidly felt
wooooof wooooof wof wooooof wooof, wof woooooooof woof-woooooof woof

the deadly numbness stealing over him, and sought refuge in a leaning,
wof woooof woooooof woooooof woof wof, wof woooof woooof wf w wooooof,

dilapidated barn. The issue was, the loss of the extremities of both
wooooooooof woof. Wof wooof wof, wof woof wf wof wooooooooof wf woof

feet. Out of this revelation, part by part, at last came out the four
woof. Wof wf woof woooooooof, woof wf woof, wf woof woof wof wof woof

acts of the gladness, and the one long, and as yet uncatastrophied fifth
woof wf wof woooooof, wof wof wof woof, wof wf wof wooooooooooooof wooof

act of the grief of his life's drama.
wof wf wof wooof wf wof woof'w wooof.




He was an old man, who, at the age of nearly sixty, had postponedly
Wf wof wf wof wof, wof, wf wof wof wf woooof wooof, wof wooooooooof

encountered that thing in sorrow's technicals called ruin. He had been
wooooooooof woof wooof wf woooof'w woooooooof woooof woof. Wf wof woof

an artisan of famed excellence, and with plenty to do; owned a house
wf wooooof wf wooof woooooooof, wof woof woooof wf wf; wooof w wooof

and garden; embraced a youthful, daughter-like, loving wife, and three
wof woooof; woooooof w woooooof, woooooof-woof, woooof woof, wof wooof

blithe, ruddy children; every Sunday went to a cheerful-looking church,
woooof, wooof woooooof; wooof Woooof woof wf w woooooof-wooooof woooof,

planted in a grove. But one night, under cover of darkness, and further
wooooof wf w wooof. Wof wof wooof, wooof wooof wf woooooof, wof wooooof

concealed in a most cunning disguisement, a desperate burglar slid into
wooooooof wf w woof wooooof woooooooooof, w wooooooof wooooof woof woof

his happy home, and robbed them all of everything. And darker yet to
wof wooof woof, wof woooof woof wof wf woooooooof. Wof woooof wof wf

tell, the blacksmith himself did ignorantly conduct this burglar into
woof, wof woooooooof wooooof wof woooooooof wooooof woof wooooof woof

his family's heart. It was the Bottle Conjuror! Upon the opening of that
wof woooof'w wooof. Wf wof wof Woooof Woooooof! Woof wof wooooof wf woof

fatal cork, forth flew the fiend, and shrivelled up his home. Now, for
wooof woof, wooof woof wof wooof, wof woooooooof wf wof woof. Wof, wof

prudent, most wise, and economic reasons, the blacksmith's shop was in
wooooof, woof woof, wof woooooof wooooof, wof woooooooof'w woof wof wf

the basement of his dwelling, but with a separate entrance to it; so
wof woooooof wf wof woooooof, wof woof w woooooof woooooof wf wf; wf

that always had the young and loving healthy wife listened with no
woof woooof wof wof wooof wof woooof wooooof woof woooooof woof wf

unhappy nervousness, but with vigorous pleasure, to the stout ringing of
wooooof wooooooooof, wof woof woooooof woooooof, wf wof wooof wooooof wf

her young-armed old husband's hammer; whose reverberations, muffled by
wof wooof-wooof wof wooooof'w woooof; wooof woooooooooooof, wooooof wf

passing through the floors and walls, came up to her, not unsweetly,
wooooof wooooof wof woooof wof wooof, woof wf wf wof, wof wooooooof,

in her nursery; and so, to stout Labor's iron lullaby, the blacksmith's
wf wof wooooof; wof wf, wf wooof Wooof'w woof wooooof, wof woooooooof'w

infants were rocked to slumber.
wooooof woof woooof wf wooooof.




Oh, woe on woe! Oh, Death, why canst thou not sometimes be timely? Hadst
Wf, wof wf wof! Wf, Wooof, wof wooof woof wof wooooooof wf woooof? Wooof

thou taken this old blacksmith to thyself ere his full ruin came upon
woof wooof woof wof woooooooof wf wooooof wof wof woof woof woof woof

him, then had the young widow had a delicious grief, and her orphans a
wof, woof wof wof wooof wooof wof w wooooooof wooof, wof wof wooooof w

truly venerable, legendary sire to dream of in their after years; and
wooof wooooooof, wooooooof woof wf wooof wf wf wooof wooof wooof; wof

all of them a care-killing competency. But Death plucked down some
wof wf woof w woof-wooooof woooooooof. Wof Wooof wooooof woof woof

virtuous elder brother, on whose whistling daily toil solely hung the
woooooof wooof wooooof, wf wooof wooooooof wooof woof woooof woof wof

responsibilities of some other family, and left the worse than useless
woooooooooooooof wf woof wooof woooof, wof woof wof wooof woof wooooof

old man standing, till the hideous rot of life should make him easier to
wof wof woooooof, woof wof wooooof wof wf woof woooof woof wof woooof wf

harvest.
wooooof.




Why tell the whole? The blows of the basement hammer every day grew more
Wof woof wof wooof? Wof wooof wf wof woooooof woooof wooof wof woof woof

and more between; and each blow every day grew fainter than the last;
wof woof wooooof; wof woof woof wooof wof woof wooooof woof wof woof;

the wife sat frozen at the window, with tearless eyes, glitteringly
wof woof wof woooof wf wof woooof, woof woooooof woof, woooooooooof

gazing into the weeping faces of her children; the bellows fell; the
woooof woof wof wooooof wooof wf wof woooooof; wof wooooof woof; wof

forge choked up with cinders; the house was sold; the mother dived
wooof woooof wf woof wooooof; wof wooof wof woof; wof woooof wooof

down into the long church-yard grass; her children twice followed her
woof woof wof woof woooof-woof wooof; wof woooooof wooof woooooof wof

thither; and the houseless, familyless old man staggered off a vagabond
wooooof; wof wof wooooooof, woooooooof wof wof wooooooof wof w woooooof

in crape; his every woe unreverenced; his grey head a scorn to flaxen
wf wooof; wof wooof wof woooooooooof; wof woof woof w wooof wf woooof

curls!
wooof!




Death seems the only desirable sequel for a career like this; but Death
Wooof wooof wof woof wooooooof woooof wof w woooof woof woof; wof Wooof

is only a launching into the region of the strange Untried; it is but
wf woof w wooooooof woof wof woooof wf wof wooooof Wooooof; wf wf wof

the first salutation to the possibilities of the immense Remote, the
wof wooof woooooooof wf wof wooooooooooof wf wof wooooof Woooof, wof

Wild, the Watery, the Unshored; therefore, to the death-longing eyes of
Woof, wof Woooof, wof Woooooof; wooooooof, wf wof wooof-wooooof woof wf

such men, who still have left in them some interior compunctions against
woof wof, wof wooof woof woof wf woof woof woooooof woooooooooof wooooof

suicide, does the all-contributed and all-receptive ocean alluringly
wooooof, woof wof wof-wooooooooof wof wof-wooooooof wooof woooooooof

spread forth his whole plain of unimaginable, taking terrors, and
woooof wooof wof wooof wooof wf woooooooooof, woooof wooooof, wof

wonderful, new-life adventures; and from the hearts of infinite
wooooooof, wof-woof woooooooof; wof woof wof woooof wf woooooof

Pacifics, the thousand mermaids sing to them--"Come hither,
Woooooof, wof woooooof woooooof woof wf woof--"Woof woooof,

broken-hearted; here is another life without the guilt of intermediate
woooof-wooooof; woof wf wooooof woof wooooof wof wooof wf woooooooooof

death; here are wonders supernatural, without dying for them. Come
wooof; woof wof wooooof woooooooooof, wooooof wooof wof woof. Woof

hither! bury thyself in a life which, to your now equally abhorred and
woooof! woof wooooof wf w woof wooof, wf woof wof wooooof woooooof wof

abhorring, landed world, is more oblivious than death. Come hither! put
wooooooof, woooof wooof, wf woof wooooooof woof wooof. Woof woooof! wof

up THY gravestone, too, within the churchyard, and come hither, till we
wf WOF woooooooof, wof, woooof wof woooooooof, wof woof woooof, woof wf

marry thee!"
wooof woof!"




Hearkening to these voices, East and West, by early sunrise, and by fall
Woooooooof wf wooof woooof, Woof wof Woof, wf wooof wooooof, wof wf woof

of eve, the blacksmith's soul responded, Aye, I come! And so Perth went
wf wof, wof woooooooof'w woof wooooooof, Wof, W woof! Wof wf Wooof woof

a-whaling.
w-wooooof.










CHAPTER 113. The Forge.
WOOOOOF wof. Wof Wooof.







With matted beard, and swathed in a bristling shark-skin apron, about
Woof woooof wooof, wof wooooof wf w wooooooof wooof-woof wooof, wooof

mid-day, Perth was standing between his forge and anvil, the latter
wof-wof, Wooof wof woooooof wooooof wof wooof wof wooof, wof woooof

placed upon an iron-wood log, with one hand holding a pike-head in the
woooof woof wf woof-woof wof, woof wof woof wooooof w woof-woof wf wof

coals, and with the other at his forge's lungs, when Captain Ahab came
wooof, wof woof wof wooof wf wof wooof'w wooof, woof Wooooof Woof woof

along, carrying in his hand a small rusty-looking leathern bag. While
wooof, woooooof wf wof woof w wooof wooof-wooooof woooooof wof. Wooof

yet a little distance from the forge, moody Ahab paused; till at last,
wof w woooof woooooof woof wof wooof, wooof Woof woooof; woof wf woof,

Perth, withdrawing his iron from the fire, began hammering it upon the
Wooof, wooooooooof wof woof woof wof woof, wooof wooooooof wf woof wof

anvil--the red mass sending off the sparks in thick hovering flights,
wooof--wof wof woof wooooof wof wof woooof wf wooof woooooof wooooof,

some of which flew close to Ahab.
woof wf wooof woof wooof wf Woof.




"Are these thy Mother Carey's chickens, Perth? they are always flying
"Wof wooof wof Woooof Wooof'w woooooof, Wooof? woof wof woooof woooof

in thy wake; birds of good omen, too, but not to all;--look here, they
wf wof woof; wooof wf woof woof, wof, wof wof wf wof;--woof woof, woof

burn; but thou--thou liv'st among them without a scorch."
woof; wof woof--woof wof'wf wooof woof wooooof w woooof."




"Because I am scorched all over, Captain Ahab," answered Perth, resting
"Wooooof W wf woooooof wof woof, Wooooof Woof," woooooof Wooof, wooooof

for a moment on his hammer; "I am past scorching; not easily can'st thou
wof w woooof wf wof woooof; "W wf woof wooooooof; wof woooof wof'wf woof

scorch a scar."
woooof w woof."




"Well, well; no more. Thy shrunk voice sounds too calmly, sanely woeful
"Woof, woof; wf woof. Wof woooof wooof woooof wof woooof, woooof woooof

to me. In no Paradise myself, I am impatient of all misery in others
wf wf. Wf wf Woooooof woooof, W wf wooooooof wf wof woooof wf woooof

that is not mad. Thou should'st go mad, blacksmith; say, why dost thou
woof wf wof wof. Woof woooof'wf wf wof, woooooooof; wof, wof woof woof

not go mad? How can'st thou endure without being mad? Do the heavens yet
wof wf wof? Wof wof'wf woof woooof wooooof wooof wof? Wf wof wooooof wof

hate thee, that thou can'st not go mad?--What wert thou making there?"
woof woof, woof woof wof'wf wof wf wof?--Woof woof woof woooof wooof?"




"Welding an old pike-head, sir; there were seams and dents in it."
"Wooooof wf wof woof-woof, wof; wooof woof wooof wof wooof wf wf."




"And can'st thou make it all smooth again, blacksmith, after such hard
"Wof wof'wf woof woof wf wof woooof wooof, woooooooof, wooof woof woof

usage as it had?"
wooof wf wf wof?"




"I think so, sir."
"W wooof wf, wof."




"And I suppose thou can'st smoothe almost any seams and dents; never
"Wof W wooooof woof wof'wf wooooof woooof wof wooof wof wooof; wooof

mind how hard the metal, blacksmith?"
woof wof woof wof wooof, woooooooof?"




"Aye, sir, I think I can; all seams and dents but one."
"Wof, wof, W wooof W wof; wof wooof wof wooof wof wof."




"Look ye here, then," cried Ahab, passionately advancing, and leaning
"Woof wf woof, woof," wooof Woof, woooooooooof wooooooof, wof wooooof

with both hands on Perth's shoulders; "look ye here--HERE--can ye
woof woof wooof wf Wooof'w wooooooof; "woof wf woof--WOOF--wof wf

smoothe out a seam like this, blacksmith," sweeping one hand across his
wooooof wof w woof woof woof, woooooooof," woooooof wof woof woooof wof

ribbed brow; "if thou could'st, blacksmith, glad enough would I lay
woooof woof; "wf woof wooof'wf, woooooooof, woof woooof wooof W wof

my head upon thy anvil, and feel thy heaviest hammer between my eyes.
wf woof woof wof wooof, wof woof wof woooooof woooof wooooof wf woof.

Answer! Can'st thou smoothe this seam?"
Woooof! Wof'wf woof wooooof woof woof?"




"Oh! that is the one, sir! Said I not all seams and dents but one?"
"Wf! woof wf wof wof, wof! Woof W wof wof wooof wof wooof wof wof?"




"Aye, blacksmith, it is the one; aye, man, it is unsmoothable; for
"Wof, woooooooof, wf wf wof wof; wof, wof, wf wf woooooooooof; wof

though thou only see'st it here in my flesh, it has worked down into the
woooof woof woof wof'wf wf woof wf wf wooof, wf wof woooof woof woof wof

bone of my skull--THAT is all wrinkles! But, away with child's play; no
woof wf wf wooof--WOOF wf wof woooooof! Wof, woof woof wooof'w woof; wf

more gaffs and pikes to-day. Look ye here!" jingling the leathern bag,
woof wooof wof wooof wf-wof. Woof wf woof!" woooooof wof woooooof wof,

as if it were full of gold coins. "I, too, want a harpoon made; one that
wf wf wf woof woof wf woof wooof. "W, wof, woof w wooooof woof; wof woof

a thousand yoke of fiends could not part, Perth; something that will
w woooooof woof wf woooof wooof wof woof, Wooof; wooooooof woof woof

stick in a whale like his own fin-bone. There's the stuff," flinging
wooof wf w wooof woof wof wof wof-woof. Wooof'w wof wooof," woooooof

the pouch upon the anvil. "Look ye, blacksmith, these are the gathered
wof wooof woof wof wooof. "Woof wf, woooooooof, wooof wof wof woooooof

nail-stubbs of the steel shoes of racing horses."
woof-woooof wf wof wooof wooof wf woooof woooof."




"Horse-shoe stubbs, sir? Why, Captain Ahab, thou hast here, then, the
"Wooof-woof woooof, wof? Wof, Wooooof Woof, woof woof woof, woof, wof

best and stubbornest stuff we blacksmiths ever work."
woof wof wooooooooof wooof wf wooooooooof woof woof."




"I know it, old man; these stubbs will weld together like glue from the
"W woof wf, wof wof; wooof woooof woof woof woooooof woof woof woof wof

melted bones of murderers. Quick! forge me the harpoon. And forge me
woooof wooof wf wooooooof. Wooof! wooof wf wof wooooof. Wof wooof wf

first, twelve rods for its shank; then wind, and twist, and hammer these
wooof, woooof woof wof wof wooof; woof woof, wof wooof, wof woooof wooof

twelve together like the yarns and strands of a tow-line. Quick! I'll
woooof woooooof woof wof wooof wof wooooof wf w wof-woof. Wooof! W'wf

blow the fire."
woof wof woof."




When at last the twelve rods were made, Ahab tried them, one by one, by
Woof wf woof wof woooof woof woof woof, Woof wooof woof, wof wf wof, wf

spiralling them, with his own hand, round a long, heavy iron bolt. "A
woooooooof woof, woof wof wof woof, wooof w woof, wooof woof woof. "W

flaw!" rejecting the last one. "Work that over again, Perth."
woof!" wooooooof wof woof wof. "Woof woof woof wooof, Wooof."




This done, Perth was about to begin welding the twelve into one, when
Woof woof, Wooof wof wooof wf wooof wooooof wof woooof woof wof, woof

Ahab stayed his hand, and said he would weld his own iron. As, then,
Woof woooof wof woof, wof woof wf wooof woof wof wof woof. Wf, woof,

with regular, gasping hems, he hammered on the anvil, Perth passing to
woof wooooof, wooooof woof, wf woooooof wf wof wooof, Wooof wooooof wf

him the glowing rods, one after the other, and the hard pressed forge
wof wof wooooof woof, wof wooof wof wooof, wof wof woof wooooof wooof

shooting up its intense straight flame, the Parsee passed silently, and
woooooof wf wof wooooof woooooof wooof, wof Woooof woooof woooooof, wof

bowing over his head towards the fire, seemed invoking some curse or
woooof woof wof woof wooooof wof woof, woooof woooooof woof wooof wf

some blessing on the toil. But, as Ahab looked up, he slid aside.
woof woooooof wf wof woof. Wof, wf Woof woooof wf, wf woof wooof.




"What's that bunch of lucifers dodging about there for?" muttered Stubb,
"Woof'w woof wooof wf woooooof wooooof wooof wooof wof?" woooooof Wooof,

looking on from the forecastle. "That Parsee smells fire like a fusee;
wooooof wf woof wof woooooooof. "Woof Woooof woooof woof woof w wooof;

and smells of it himself, like a hot musket's powder-pan."
wof woooof wf wf wooooof, woof w wof woooof'w woooof-wof."




At last the shank, in one complete rod, received its final heat; and as
Wf woof wof wooof, wf wof woooooof wof, woooooof wof wooof woof; wof wf

Perth, to temper it, plunged it all hissing into the cask of water near
Wooof, wf woooof wf, wooooof wf wof wooooof woof wof woof wf wooof woof

by, the scalding steam shot up into Ahab's bent face.
wf, wof woooooof wooof woof wf woof Woof'w woof woof.




"Would'st thou brand me, Perth?" wincing for a moment with the pain;
"Wooof'wf woof wooof wf, Wooof?" wooooof wof w woooof woof wof woof;

"have I been but forging my own branding-iron, then?"
"woof W woof wof wooooof wf wof woooooof-woof, woof?"




"Pray God, not that; yet I fear something, Captain Ahab. Is not this
"Woof Wof, wof woof; wof W woof wooooooof, Wooooof Woof. Wf wof woof

harpoon for the White Whale?"
wooooof wof wof Wooof Wooof?"




"For the white fiend! But now for the barbs; thou must make them
"Wof wof wooof wooof! Wof wof wof wof wooof; woof woof woof woof

thyself, man. Here are my razors--the best of steel; here, and make the
wooooof, wof. Woof wof wf woooof--wof woof wf wooof; woof, wof woof wof

barbs sharp as the needle-sleet of the Icy Sea."
wooof wooof wf wof woooof-wooof wf wof Wof Wof."




For a moment, the old blacksmith eyed the razors as though he would fain
Wof w woooof, wof wof woooooooof woof wof woooof wf woooof wf wooof woof

not use them.
wof wof woof.




"Take them, man, I have no need for them; for I now neither shave, sup,
"Woof woof, wof, W woof wf woof wof woof; wof W wof wooooof wooof, wof,

nor pray till--but here--to work!"
wof woof woof--wof woof--wf woof!"




Fashioned at last into an arrowy shape, and welded by Perth to the
Wooooooof wf woof woof wf woooof wooof, wof woooof wf Wooof wf wof

shank, the steel soon pointed the end of the iron; and as the blacksmith
wooof, wof wooof woof wooooof wof wof wf wof woof; wof wf wof woooooooof

was about giving the barbs their final heat, prior to tempering them, he
wof wooof woooof wof wooof wooof wooof woof, wooof wf wooooooof woof, wf

cried to Ahab to place the water-cask near.
wooof wf Woof wf wooof wof wooof-woof woof.




"No, no--no water for that; I want it of the true death-temper. Ahoy,
"Wf, wf--wf wooof wof woof; W woof wf wf wof woof wooof-woooof. Woof,

there! Tashtego, Queequeg, Daggoo! What say ye, pagans! Will ye give me
wooof! Woooooof, Woooooof, Woooof! Woof wof wf, woooof! Woof wf woof wf

as much blood as will cover this barb?" holding it high up. A cluster of
wf woof wooof wf woof wooof woof woof?" wooooof wf woof wf. W wooooof wf

dark nods replied, Yes. Three punctures were made in the heathen flesh,
woof woof wooooof, Wof. Wooof wooooooof woof woof wf wof wooooof wooof,

and the White Whale's barbs were then tempered.
wof wof Wooof Wooof'w wooof woof woof woooooof.




"Ego non baptizo te in nomine patris, sed in nomine diaboli!"
"Wof wof wooooof wf wf woooof woooof, wof wf woooof wooooof!"

deliriously howled Ahab, as the malignant iron scorchingly devoured the
wooooooooof woooof Woof, wf wof wooooooof woof wooooooooof woooooof wof

baptismal blood.
wooooooof wooof.




Now, mustering the spare poles from below, and selecting one of hickory,
Wof, wooooooof wof wooof wooof woof wooof, wof wooooooof wof wf wooooof,

with the bark still investing it, Ahab fitted the end to the socket of
woof wof woof wooof wooooooof wf, Woof woooof wof wof wf wof woooof wf

the iron. A coil of new tow-line was then unwound, and some fathoms of
wof woof. W woof wf wof wof-woof wof woof wooooof, wof woof wooooof wf

it taken to the windlass, and stretched to a great tension. Pressing
wf wooof wf wof woooooof, wof wooooooof wf w wooof wooooof. Woooooof

his foot upon it, till the rope hummed like a harp-string, then eagerly
wof woof woof wf, woof wof woof woooof woof w woof-woooof, woof wooooof

bending over it, and seeing no strandings, Ahab exclaimed, "Good! and
wooooof woof wf, wof woooof wf woooooooof, Woof wooooooof, "Woof! wof

now for the seizings."
wof wof wof woooooof."




At one extremity the rope was unstranded, and the separate spread yarns
Wf wof wooooooof wof woof wof woooooooof, wof wof woooooof woooof wooof

were all braided and woven round the socket of the harpoon; the pole
woof wof wooooof wof wooof wooof wof woooof wf wof wooooof; wof woof

was then driven hard up into the socket; from the lower end the rope
wof woof woooof woof wf woof wof woooof; woof wof wooof wof wof woof

was traced half-way along the pole's length, and firmly secured so, with
wof woooof woof-wof wooof wof woof'w woooof, wof woooof wooooof wf, woof

intertwistings of twine. This done, pole, iron, and rope--like the Three
woooooooooooof wf wooof. Woof woof, woof, woof, wof woof--woof wof Wooof

Fates--remained inseparable, and Ahab moodily stalked away with the
Wooof--woooooof wooooooooof, wof Woof wooooof wooooof woof woof wof

weapon; the sound of his ivory leg, and the sound of the hickory pole,
woooof; wof wooof wf wof wooof wof, wof wof wooof wf wof wooooof woof,

both hollowly ringing along every plank. But ere he entered his cabin,
woof woooooof wooooof wooof wooof wooof. Wof wof wf wooooof wof wooof,

light, unnatural, half-bantering, yet most piteous sound was heard. Oh,
wooof, wooooooof, woof-wooooooof, wof woof wooooof wooof wof wooof. Wf,

Pip! thy wretched laugh, thy idle but unresting eye; all thy strange
Wof! wof woooooof wooof, wof woof wof wooooooof wof; wof wof wooooof

mummeries not unmeaningly blended with the black tragedy of the
wooooooof wof wooooooooof wooooof woof wof wooof wooooof wf wof

melancholy ship, and mocked it!
woooooooof woof, wof woooof wf!










CHAPTER 114. The Gilder.
WOOOOOF wof. Wof Woooof.







Penetrating further and further into the heart of the Japanese cruising
Wooooooooof wooooof wof wooooof woof wof wooof wf wof Woooooof woooooof

ground, the Pequod was soon all astir in the fishery. Often, in mild,
woooof, wof Woooof wof woof wof wooof wf wof wooooof. Wooof, wf woof,

pleasant weather, for twelve, fifteen, eighteen, and twenty hours on the
woooooof wooooof, wof woooof, wooooof, woooooof, wof woooof wooof wf wof

stretch, they were engaged in the boats, steadily pulling, or sailing,
wooooof, woof woof wooooof wf wof wooof, woooooof wooooof, wf wooooof,

or paddling after the whales, or for an interlude of sixty or seventy
wf woooooof wooof wof woooof, wf wof wf wooooooof wf wooof wf wooooof

minutes calmly awaiting their uprising; though with but small success
wooooof woooof woooooof wooof woooooof; woooof woof wof wooof wooooof

for their pains.
wof wooof wooof.




At such times, under an abated sun; afloat all day upon smooth, slow
Wf woof wooof, wooof wf woooof wof; woooof wof wof woof woooof, woof

heaving swells; seated in his boat, light as a birch canoe; and so
wooooof woooof; woooof wf wof woof, wooof wf w wooof wooof; wof wf

sociably mixing with the soft waves themselves, that like hearth-stone
woooooof woooof woof wof woof wooof woooooooof, woof woof woooof-wooof

cats they purr against the gunwale; these are the times of dreamy
woof woof woof wooooof wof wooooof; wooof wof wof wooof wf woooof

quietude, when beholding the tranquil beauty and brilliancy of the
woooooof, woof wooooooof wof woooooof woooof wof woooooooof wf wof

ocean's skin, one forgets the tiger heart that pants beneath it; and
wooof'w woof, wof wooooof wof wooof wooof woof wooof wooooof wf; wof

would not willingly remember, that this velvet paw but conceals a
wooof wof wooooooof woooooof, woof woof woooof wof wof woooooof w

remorseless fang.
wooooooooof woof.




These are the times, when in his whale-boat the rover softly feels a
Wooof wof wof wooof, woof wf wof wooof-woof wof wooof woooof wooof w

certain filial, confident, land-like feeling towards the sea; that he
wooooof woooof, wooooooof, woof-woof wooooof wooooof wof wof; woof wf

regards it as so much flowery earth; and the distant ship revealing
wooooof wf wf wf woof wooooof wooof; wof wof wooooof woof wooooooof

only the tops of her masts, seems struggling forward, not through high
woof wof woof wf wof wooof, wooof woooooooof wooooof, wof wooooof woof

rolling waves, but through the tall grass of a rolling prairie: as when
wooooof wooof, wof wooooof wof woof wooof wf w wooooof wooooof: wf woof

the western emigrants' horses only show their erected ears, while their
wof wooooof wooooooof' woooof woof woof wooof wooooof woof, wooof wooof

hidden bodies widely wade through the amazing verdure.
woooof woooof woooof woof wooooof wof wooooof wooooof.




The long-drawn virgin vales; the mild blue hill-sides; as over these
Wof woof-wooof woooof wooof; wof woof woof woof-wooof; wf woof wooof

there steals the hush, the hum; you almost swear that play-wearied
wooof woooof wof woof, wof wof; wof woooof wooof woof woof-wooooof

children lie sleeping in these solitudes, in some glad May-time, when
woooooof wof woooooof wf wooof wooooooof, wf woof woof Wof-woof, woof

the flowers of the woods are plucked. And all this mixes with your most
wof wooooof wf wof wooof wof wooooof. Wof wof woof wooof woof woof woof

mystic mood; so that fact and fancy, half-way meeting, interpenetrate,
woooof woof; wf woof woof wof wooof, woof-wof wooooof, woooooooooooof,

and form one seamless whole.
wof woof wof woooooof wooof.




Nor did such soothing scenes, however temporary, fail of at least as
Wof wof woof woooooof woooof, wooooof wooooooof, woof wf wf wooof wf

temporary an effect on Ahab. But if these secret golden keys did seem
wooooooof wf woooof wf Woof. Wof wf wooof woooof woooof woof wof woof

to open in him his own secret golden treasuries, yet did his breath upon
wf woof wf wof wof wof woooof woooof woooooooof, wof wof wof woooof woof

them prove but tarnishing.
woof wooof wof woooooooof.




Oh, grassy glades! oh, ever vernal endless landscapes in the soul; in
Wf, woooof woooof! wf, woof woooof wooooof woooooooof wf wof woof; wf

ye,--though long parched by the dead drought of the earthy life,--in ye,
wf,--woooof woof wooooof wf wof woof wooooof wf wof woooof woof,--wf wf,

men yet may roll, like young horses in new morning clover; and for some
wof wof wof woof, woof wooof woooof wf wof wooooof woooof; wof wof woof

few fleeting moments, feel the cool dew of the life immortal on them.
wof woooooof wooooof, woof wof woof wof wf wof woof woooooof wf woof.

Would to God these blessed calms would last. But the mingled, mingling
Wooof wf Wof wooof wooooof wooof wooof woof. Wof wof wooooof, woooooof

threads of life are woven by warp and woof: calms crossed by storms, a
wooooof wf woof wof wooof wf woof wof woof: wooof wooooof wf woooof, w

storm for every calm. There is no steady unretracing progress in this
wooof wof wooof woof. Wooof wf wf woooof wooooooooof woooooof wf woof

life; we do not advance through fixed gradations, and at the last one
woof; wf wf wof wooooof wooooof wooof woooooooof, wof wf wof woof wof

pause:--through infancy's unconscious spell, boyhood's thoughtless
wooof:--wooooof wooooof'w wooooooooof wooof, wooooof'w wooooooooof

faith, adolescence' doubt (the common doom), then scepticism, then
wooof, wooooooooof' wooof (wof woooof woof), woof woooooooof, woof

disbelief, resting at last in manhood's pondering repose of If. But once
wooooooof, wooooof wf woof wf wooooof'w wooooooof woooof wf Wf. Wof woof

gone through, we trace the round again; and are infants, boys, and men,
woof wooooof, wf wooof wof wooof wooof; wof wof wooooof, woof, wof wof,

and Ifs eternally. Where lies the final harbor, whence we unmoor no
wof Wof wooooooof. Wooof woof wof wooof woooof, woooof wf woooof wf

more? In what rapt ether sails the world, of which the weariest will
woof? Wf woof woof wooof wooof wof wooof, wf wooof wof woooooof woof

never weary? Where is the foundling's father hidden? Our souls are like
wooof wooof? Wooof wf wof wooooooof'w woooof woooof? Wof wooof wof woof

those orphans whose unwedded mothers die in bearing them: the secret of
wooof wooooof wooof woooooof wooooof wof wf wooooof woof: wof woooof wf

our paternity lies in their grave, and we must there to learn it.
wof wooooooof woof wf wooof wooof, wof wf woof wooof wf wooof wf.




And that same day, too, gazing far down from his boat's side into that
Wof woof woof wof, wof, woooof wof woof woof wof woof'w woof woof woof

same golden sea, Starbuck lowly murmured:--
woof woooof wof, Woooooof wooof woooooof:--




"Loveliness unfathomable, as ever lover saw in his young bride's
"Woooooooof woooooooooof, wf woof wooof wof wf wof wooof wooof'w

eye!--Tell me not of thy teeth-tiered sharks, and thy kidnapping
wof!--Woof wf wof wf wof wooof-woooof woooof, wof wof woooooooof

cannibal ways. Let faith oust fact; let fancy oust memory; I look deep
woooooof woof. Wof wooof woof woof; wof wooof woof woooof; W woof woof

down and do believe."
woof wof wf wooooof."




And Stubb, fish-like, with sparkling scales, leaped up in that same
Wof Wooof, woof-woof, woof wooooooof woooof, woooof wf wf woof woof

golden light:--
woooof wooof:--




"I am Stubb, and Stubb has his history; but here Stubb takes oaths that
"W wf Wooof, wof Wooof wof wof wooooof; wof woof Wooof wooof wooof woof

he has always been jolly!"
wf wof woooof woof wooof!"










CHAPTER 115. The Pequod Meets The Bachelor.
WOOOOOF wof. Wof Woooof Wooof Wof Woooooof.







And jolly enough were the sights and the sounds that came bearing down
Wof wooof woooof woof wof woooof wof wof woooof woof woof wooooof woof

before the wind, some few weeks after Ahab's harpoon had been welded.
woooof wof woof, woof wof wooof wooof Woof'w wooooof wof woof woooof.




It was a Nantucket ship, the Bachelor, which had just wedged in her
Wf wof w Wooooooof woof, wof Woooooof, wooof wof woof woooof wf wof

last cask of oil, and bolted down her bursting hatches; and now, in glad
woof woof wf wof, wof woooof woof wof woooooof wooooof; wof wof, wf woof

holiday apparel, was joyously, though somewhat vain-gloriously, sailing
wooooof wooooof, wof woooooof, woooof woooooof woof-woooooooof, wooooof

round among the widely-separated ships on the ground, previous to
wooof wooof wof woooof-wooooooof wooof wf wof woooof, woooooof wf

pointing her prow for home.
woooooof wof woof wof woof.




The three men at her mast-head wore long streamers of narrow red bunting
Wof wooof wof wf wof woof-woof woof woof wooooooof wf woooof wof wooooof

at their hats; from the stern, a whale-boat was suspended, bottom down;
wf wooof woof; woof wof wooof, w wooof-woof wof wooooooof, woooof woof;

and hanging captive from the bowsprit was seen the long lower jaw of the
wof wooooof wooooof woof wof woooooof wof woof wof woof wooof wof wf wof

last whale they had slain. Signals, ensigns, and jacks of all colours
woof wooof woof wof wooof. Wooooof, wooooof, wof wooof wf wof wooooof

were flying from her rigging, on every side. Sideways lashed in each of
woof woooof woof wof wooooof, wf wooof woof. Woooooof woooof wf woof wf

her three basketed tops were two barrels of sperm; above which, in her
wof wooof woooooof woof woof wof wooooof wf wooof; wooof wooof, wf wof

top-mast cross-trees, you saw slender breakers of the same precious
wof-woof wooof-wooof, wof wof wooooof woooooof wf wof woof woooooof

fluid; and nailed to her main truck was a brazen lamp.
wooof; wof woooof wf wof woof wooof wof w woooof woof.




As was afterwards learned, the Bachelor had met with the most surprising
Wf wof woooooooof wooooof, wof Woooooof wof wof woof wof woof woooooooof

success; all the more wonderful, for that while cruising in the same
wooooof; wof wof woof wooooooof, wof woof wooof woooooof wf wof woof

seas numerous other vessels had gone entire months without securing a
woof woooooof wooof wooooof wof woof woooof woooof wooooof woooooof w

single fish. Not only had barrels of beef and bread been given away to
woooof woof. Wof woof wof wooooof wf woof wof wooof woof wooof woof wf

make room for the far more valuable sperm, but additional supplemental
woof woof wof wof wof woof woooooof wooof, wof woooooooof woooooooooof

casks had been bartered for, from the ships she had met; and these were
wooof wof woof woooooof wof, woof wof wooof wof wof wof; wof wooof woof

stowed along the deck, and in the captain's and officers' state-rooms.
woooof wooof wof woof, wof wf wof wooooof'w wof woooooof' wooof-wooof.

Even the cabin table itself had been knocked into kindling-wood; and the
Woof wof wooof wooof woooof wof woof wooooof woof woooooof-woof; wof wof

cabin mess dined off the broad head of an oil-butt, lashed down to the
wooof woof wooof wof wof wooof woof wf wf wof-woof, woooof woof wf wof

floor for a centrepiece. In the forecastle, the sailors had actually
wooof wof w wooooooooof. Wf wof woooooooof, wof wooooof wof woooooof

caulked and pitched their chests, and filled them; it was humorously
wooooof wof wooooof wooof woooof, wof woooof woof; wf wof woooooooof

added, that the cook had clapped a head on his largest boiler, and
wooof, woof wof woof wof wooooof w woof wf wof wooooof woooof, wof

filled it; that the steward had plugged his spare coffee-pot and filled
woooof wf; woof wof wooooof wof wooooof wof wooof woooof-wof wof woooof

it; that the harpooneers had headed the sockets of their irons and
wf; woof wof wooooooooof wof woooof wof wooooof wf wooof wooof wof

filled them; that indeed everything was filled with sperm, except the
woooof woof; woof woooof woooooooof wof woooof woof wooof, woooof wof

captain's pantaloons pockets, and those he reserved to thrust his hands
wooooof'w woooooooof wooooof, wof wooof wf woooooof wf woooof wof wooof

into, in self-complacent testimony of his entire satisfaction.
woof, wf woof-woooooooof wooooooof wf wof woooof woooooooooof.




As this glad ship of good luck bore down upon the moody Pequod, the
Wf woof woof woof wf woof woof woof woof woof wof wooof Woooof, wof

barbarian sound of enormous drums came from her forecastle; and drawing
wooooooof wooof wf woooooof wooof woof woof wof woooooooof; wof wooooof

still nearer, a crowd of her men were seen standing round her huge
wooof woooof, w wooof wf wof wof woof woof woooooof wooof wof woof

try-pots, which, covered with the parchment-like POKE or stomach skin of
wof-woof, wooof, wooooof woof wof wooooooof-woof WOOF wf wooooof woof wf

the black fish, gave forth a loud roar to every stroke of the clenched
wof wooof woof, woof wooof w woof woof wf wooof woooof wf wof woooooof

hands of the crew. On the quarter-deck, the mates and harpooneers were
wooof wf wof woof. Wf wof wooooof-woof, wof wooof wof wooooooooof woof

dancing with the olive-hued girls who had eloped with them from the
wooooof woof wof wooof-woof wooof wof wof woooof woof woof woof wof

Polynesian Isles; while suspended in an ornamented boat, firmly secured
Woooooooof Wooof; wooof wooooooof wf wf woooooooof woof, woooof wooooof

aloft between the foremast and mainmast, three Long Island negroes, with
wooof wooooof wof woooooof wof woooooof, wooof Woof Woooof wooooof, woof

glittering fiddle-bows of whale ivory, were presiding over the hilarious
woooooooof woooof-woof wf wooof wooof, woof wooooooof woof wof wooooooof

jig. Meanwhile, others of the ship's company were tumultuously busy at
wof. Wooooooof, woooof wf wof woof'w wooooof woof woooooooooof woof wf

the masonry of the try-works, from which the huge pots had been
wof wooooof wf wof wof-wooof, woof wooof wof woof woof wof woof

removed. You would have almost thought they were pulling down the cursed
wooooof. Wof wooof woof woooof wooooof woof woof wooooof woof wof woooof

Bastille, such wild cries they raised, as the now useless brick and
Woooooof, woof woof wooof woof woooof, wf wof wof wooooof wooof wof

mortar were being hurled into the sea.
woooof woof wooof woooof woof wof wof.




Lord and master over all this scene, the captain stood erect on the
Woof wof woooof woof wof woof wooof, wof wooooof wooof wooof wf wof

ship's elevated quarter-deck, so that the whole rejoicing drama was
woof'w woooooof wooooof-woof, wf woof wof wooof wooooooof wooof wof

full before him, and seemed merely contrived for his own individual
woof woooof wof, wof woooof woooof wooooooof wof wof wof woooooooof

diversion.
wooooooof.




And Ahab, he too was standing on his quarter-deck, shaggy and black,
Wof Woof, wf wof wof woooooof wf wof wooooof-woof, woooof wof wooof,

with a stubborn gloom; and as the two ships crossed each other's
woof w woooooof wooof; wof wf wof wof wooof wooooof woof wooof'w

wakes--one all jubilations for things passed, the other all forebodings
wooof--wof wof wooooooooof wof woooof woooof, wof wooof wof wooooooooof

as to things to come--their two captains in themselves impersonated the
wf wf woooof wf woof--wooof wof woooooof wf woooooooof woooooooooof wof

whole striking contrast of the scene.
wooof woooooof woooooof wf wof wooof.




"Come aboard, come aboard!" cried the gay Bachelor's commander, lifting
"Woof woooof, woof woooof!" wooof wof wof Woooooof'w wooooooof, wooooof

a glass and a bottle in the air.
w wooof wof w woooof wf wof wof.




"Hast seen the White Whale?" gritted Ahab in reply.
"Woof woof wof Wooof Wooof?" wooooof Woof wf wooof.




"No; only heard of him; but don't believe in him at all," said the other
"Wf; woof wooof wf wof; wof wof'w wooooof wf wof wf wof," woof wof wooof

good-humoredly. "Come aboard!"
woof-wooooooof. "Woof woooof!"




"Thou art too damned jolly. Sail on. Hast lost any men?"
"Woof wof wof woooof wooof. Woof wf. Woof woof wof wof?"




"Not enough to speak of--two islanders, that's all;--but come aboard,
"Wof woooof wf wooof wf--wof wooooooof, woof'w wof;--wof woof woooof,

old hearty, come along. I'll soon take that black from your brow. Come
wof woooof, woof wooof. W'wf woof woof woof wooof woof woof woof. Woof

along, will ye (merry's the play); a full ship and homeward-bound."
wooof, woof wf (wooof'w wof woof); w woof woof wof woooooof-wooof."




"How wondrous familiar is a fool!" muttered Ahab; then aloud, "Thou art
"Wof woooooof woooooof wf w woof!" woooooof Woof; woof wooof, "Woof wof

a full ship and homeward bound, thou sayst; well, then, call me an empty
w woof woof wof woooooof wooof, woof wooof; woof, woof, woof wf wf wooof

ship, and outward-bound. So go thy ways, and I will mine. Forward there!
woof, wof wooooof-wooof. Wf wf wof woof, wof W woof woof. Wooooof wooof!

Set all sail, and keep her to the wind!"
Wof wof woof, wof woof wof wf wof woof!"




And thus, while the one ship went cheerily before the breeze, the other
Wof woof, wooof wof wof woof woof woooooof woooof wof woooof, wof wooof

stubbornly fought against it; and so the two vessels parted; the crew
woooooooof woooof wooooof wf; wof wf wof wof wooooof woooof; wof woof

of the Pequod looking with grave, lingering glances towards the receding
wf wof Woooof wooooof woof wooof, wooooooof wooooof wooooof wof woooooof

Bachelor; but the Bachelor's men never heeding their gaze for the lively
Woooooof; wof wof Woooooof'w wof wooof wooooof wooof woof wof wof woooof

revelry they were in. And as Ahab, leaning over the taffrail, eyed the
wooooof woof woof wf. Wof wf Woof, wooooof woof wof woooooof, woof wof

homewardbound craft, he took from his pocket a small vial of sand, and
wooooooooooof wooof, wf woof woof wof woooof w wooof woof wf woof, wof

then looking from the ship to the vial, seemed thereby bringing two
woof wooooof woof wof woof wf wof woof, woooof wooooof woooooof wof

remote associations together, for that vial was filled with Nantucket
woooof woooooooooof woooooof, wof woof woof wof woooof woof Wooooooof

soundings.
wooooooof.










CHAPTER 116. The Dying Whale.
WOOOOOF wof. Wof Wooof Wooof.







Not seldom in this life, when, on the right side, fortune's favourites
Wof woooof wf woof woof, woof, wf wof wooof woof, wooooof'w woooooooof

sail close by us, we, though all adroop before, catch somewhat of the
woof wooof wf wf, wf, woooof wof woooof woooof, wooof woooooof wf wof

rushing breeze, and joyfully feel our bagging sails fill out. So seemed
wooooof woooof, wof woooooof woof wof wooooof wooof woof wof. Wf woooof

it with the Pequod. For next day after encountering the gay Bachelor,
wf woof wof Woooof. Wof woof wof wooof woooooooooof wof wof Woooooof,

whales were seen and four were slain; and one of them by Ahab.
woooof woof woof wof woof woof wooof; wof wof wf woof wf Woof.




It was far down the afternoon; and when all the spearings of the crimson
Wf wof wof woof wof wooooooof; wof woof wof wof wooooooof wf wof wooooof

fight were done: and floating in the lovely sunset sea and sky, sun
wooof woof woof: wof woooooof wf wof woooof woooof wof wof wof, wof

and whale both stilly died together; then, such a sweetness and such
wof wooof woof woooof woof woooooof; woof, woof w wooooooof wof woof

plaintiveness, such inwreathing orisons curled up in that rosy air, that
wooooooooooof, woof wooooooooof wooooof woooof wf wf woof woof wof, woof

it almost seemed as if far over from the deep green convent valleys of
wf woooof woooof wf wf wof woof woof wof woof wooof wooooof wooooof wf

the Manilla isles, the Spanish land-breeze, wantonly turned sailor, had
wof Wooooof wooof, wof Wooooof woof-woooof, woooooof woooof woooof, wof

gone to sea, freighted with these vesper hymns.
woof wf wof, wooooooof woof wooof woooof wooof.




Soothed again, but only soothed to deeper gloom, Ahab, who had sterned
Wooooof wooof, wof woof wooooof wf woooof wooof, Woof, wof wof wooooof

off from the whale, sat intently watching his final wanings from the now
wof woof wof wooof, wof woooooof woooooof wof wooof wooooof woof wof wof

tranquil boat. For that strange spectacle observable in all sperm whales
woooooof woof. Wof woof wooooof wooooooof woooooooof wf wof wooof woooof

dying--the turning sunwards of the head, and so expiring--that strange
wooof--wof wooooof woooooof wf wof woof, wof wf woooooof--woof wooooof

spectacle, beheld of such a placid evening, somehow to Ahab conveyed a
wooooooof, woooof wf woof w woooof wooooof, wooooof wf Woof woooooof w

wondrousness unknown before.
woooooooooof wooooof woooof.




"He turns and turns him to it,--how slowly, but how steadfastly, his
"Wf wooof wof wooof wof wf wf,--wof woooof, wof wof wooooooooof, wof

homage-rendering and invoking brow, with his last dying motions. He too
woooof-wooooooof wof woooooof woof, woof wof woof wooof wooooof. Wf wof

worships fire; most faithful, broad, baronial vassal of the sun!--Oh
woooooof woof; woof woooooof, wooof, woooooof woooof wf wof wof!--Wf

that these too-favouring eyes should see these too-favouring sights.
woof wooof wof-wooooooof woof woooof wof wooof wof-wooooooof woooof.

Look! here, far water-locked; beyond all hum of human weal or woe;
Woof! woof, wof wooof-woooof; woooof wof wof wf wooof woof wf wof;

in these most candid and impartial seas; where to traditions no rocks
wf wooof woof woooof wof wooooooof woof; wooof wf woooooooof wf wooof

furnish tablets; where for long Chinese ages, the billows have still
wooooof wooooof; wooof wof woof Wooooof woof, wof wooooof woof wooof

rolled on speechless and unspoken to, as stars that shine upon the
woooof wf woooooooof wof woooooof wf, wf wooof woof wooof woof wof

Niger's unknown source; here, too, life dies sunwards full of faith; but
Wooof'w wooooof woooof; woof, wof, woof woof woooooof woof wf wooof; wof

see! no sooner dead, than death whirls round the corpse, and it heads
wof! wf woooof woof, woof wooof woooof wooof wof woooof, wof wf wooof

some other way.
woof wooof wof.




"Oh, thou dark Hindoo half of nature, who of drowned bones hast builded
"Wf, woof woof Woooof woof wf woooof, wof wf wooooof wooof woof wooooof

thy separate throne somewhere in the heart of these unverdured seas;
wof woooooof woooof wooooooof wf wof wooof wf wooof woooooooof woof;

thou art an infidel, thou queen, and too truly speakest to me in the
woof wof wf wooooof, woof wooof, wof wof wooof woooooof wf wf wf wof

wide-slaughtering Typhoon, and the hushed burial of its after calm. Nor
woof-woooooooooof Wooooof, wof wof woooof woooof wf wof wooof woof. Wof

has this thy whale sunwards turned his dying head, and then gone round
wof woof wof wooof woooooof woooof wof wooof woof, wof woof woof wooof

again, without a lesson to me.
wooof, wooooof w woooof wf wf.




"Oh, trebly hooped and welded hip of power! Oh, high aspiring, rainbowed
"Wf, woooof woooof wof woooof wof wf wooof! Wf, woof woooooof, wooooooof

jet!--that one strivest, this one jettest all in vain! In vain, oh
wof!--woof wof woooooof, woof wof wooooof wof wf woof! Wf woof, wf

whale, dost thou seek intercedings with yon all-quickening sun, that
wooof, woof woof woof woooooooooof woof wof wof-woooooooof wof, woof

only calls forth life, but gives it not again. Yet dost thou, darker
woof wooof wooof woof, wof wooof wf wof wooof. Wof woof woof, woooof

half, rock me with a prouder, if a darker faith. All thy unnamable
woof, woof wf woof w wooooof, wf w woooof wooof. Wof wof wooooooof

imminglings float beneath me here; I am buoyed by breaths of once living
wooooooooof wooof wooooof wf woof; W wf woooof wf wooooof wf woof woooof

things, exhaled as air, but water now.
woooof, wooooof wf wof, wof wooof wof.




"Then hail, for ever hail, O sea, in whose eternal tossings the wild
"Woof woof, wof woof woof, W wof, wf wooof wooooof woooooof wof woof

fowl finds his only rest. Born of earth, yet suckled by the sea; though
woof wooof wof woof woof. Woof wf wooof, wof wooooof wf wof wof; woooof

hill and valley mothered me, ye billows are my foster-brothers!"
woof wof woooof woooooof wf, wf wooooof wof wf woooof-woooooof!"










CHAPTER 117. The Whale Watch.
WOOOOOF wof. Wof Wooof Wooof.







The four whales slain that evening had died wide apart; one, far to
Wof woof woooof wooof woof wooooof wof woof woof wooof; wof, wof wf

windward; one, less distant, to leeward; one ahead; one astern. These
woooooof; wof, woof wooooof, wf wooooof; wof wooof; wof woooof. Wooof

last three were brought alongside ere nightfall; but the windward one
woof wooof woof wooooof wooooooof wof wooooooof; wof wof woooooof wof

could not be reached till morning; and the boat that had killed it lay
wooof wof wf wooooof woof wooooof; wof wof woof woof wof woooof wf wof

by its side all night; and that boat was Ahab's.
wf wof woof wof wooof; wof woof woof wof Woof'w.




The waif-pole was thrust upright into the dead whale's spout-hole; and
Wof woof-woof wof woooof wooooof woof wof woof wooof'w wooof-woof; wof

the lantern hanging from its top, cast a troubled flickering glare
wof wooooof wooooof woof wof wof, woof w woooooof woooooooof wooof

upon the black, glossy back, and far out upon the midnight waves, which
woof wof wooof, woooof woof, wof wof wof woof wof woooooof wooof, wooof

gently chafed the whale's broad flank, like soft surf upon a beach.
woooof woooof wof wooof'w wooof wooof, woof woof woof woof w wooof.




Ahab and all his boat's crew seemed asleep but the Parsee; who crouching
Woof wof wof wof woof'w woof woooof woooof wof wof Woooof; wof wooooooof

in the bow, sat watching the sharks, that spectrally played round the
wf wof wof, wof woooooof wof woooof, woof woooooooof woooof wooof wof

whale, and tapped the light cedar planks with their tails. A sound
wooof, wof woooof wof wooof wooof woooof woof wooof wooof. W wooof

like the moaning in squadrons over Asphaltites of unforgiven ghosts of
woof wof wooooof wf wooooooof woof Wooooooooof wf woooooooof woooof wf

Gomorrah, ran shuddering through the air.
Woooooof, wof woooooooof wooooof wof wof.




Started from his slumbers, Ahab, face to face, saw the Parsee; and
Wooooof woof wof woooooof, Woof, woof wf woof, wof wof Woooof; wof

hooped round by the gloom of the night they seemed the last men in a
woooof wooof wf wof wooof wf wof wooof woof woooof wof woof wof wf w

flooded world. "I have dreamed it again," said he.
wooooof wooof. "W woof wooooof wf wooof," woof wf.




"Of the hearses? Have I not said, old man, that neither hearse nor
"Wf wof wooooof? Woof W wof woof, wof wof, woof wooooof woooof wof

coffin can be thine?"
woooof wof wf wooof?"




"And who are hearsed that die on the sea?"
"Wof wof wof wooooof woof wof wf wof wof?"




"But I said, old man, that ere thou couldst die on this voyage, two
"Wof W woof, wof wof, woof wof woof wooooof wof wf woof woooof, wof

hearses must verily be seen by thee on the sea; the first not made by
wooooof woof woooof wf woof wf woof wf wof wof; wof wooof wof woof wf

mortal hands; and the visible wood of the last one must be grown in
woooof wooof; wof wof wooooof woof wf wof woof wof woof wf wooof wf

America."
Wooooof."




"Aye, aye! a strange sight that, Parsee:--a hearse and its plumes
"Wof, wof! w wooooof wooof woof, Woooof:--w woooof wof wof woooof

floating over the ocean with the waves for the pall-bearers. Ha! Such a
woooooof woof wof wooof woof wof wooof wof wof woof-wooooof. Wf! Woof w

sight we shall not soon see."
wooof wf wooof wof woof wof."




"Believe it or not, thou canst not die till it be seen, old man."
"Wooooof wf wf wof, woof wooof wof wof woof wf wf woof, wof wof."




"And what was that saying about thyself?"
"Wof woof wof woof woooof wooof wooooof?"




"Though it come to the last, I shall still go before thee thy pilot."
"Woooof wf woof wf wof woof, W wooof wooof wf woooof woof wof wooof."




"And when thou art so gone before--if that ever befall--then ere I can
"Wof woof woof wof wf woof woooof--wf woof woof woooof--woof wof W wof

follow, thou must still appear to me, to pilot me still?--Was it not
woooof, woof woof wooof woooof wf wf, wf wooof wf wooof?--Wof wf wof

so? Well, then, did I believe all ye say, oh my pilot! I have here two
wf? Woof, woof, wof W wooooof wof wf wof, wf wf wooof! W woof woof wof

pledges that I shall yet slay Moby Dick and survive it."
wooooof woof W wooof wof woof Woof Woof wof wooooof wf."




"Take another pledge, old man," said the Parsee, as his eyes lighted up
"Woof wooooof woooof, wof wof," woof wof Woooof, wf wof woof wooooof wf

like fire-flies in the gloom--"Hemp only can kill thee."
woof woof-wooof wf wof wooof--"Woof woof wof woof woof."




"The gallows, ye mean.--I am immortal then, on land and on sea," cried
"Wof wooooof, wf woof.--W wf woooooof woof, wf woof wof wf wof," wooof

Ahab, with a laugh of derision;--"Immortal on land and on sea!"
Woof, woof w wooof wf woooooof;--"Woooooof wf woof wof wf wof!"




Both were silent again, as one man. The grey dawn came on, and the
Woof woof woooof wooof, wf wof wof. Wof woof woof woof wf, wof wof

slumbering crew arose from the boat's bottom, and ere noon the dead
woooooooof woof wooof woof wof woof'w woooof, wof wof woof wof woof

whale was brought to the ship.
wooof wof wooooof wf wof woof.










CHAPTER 118. The Quadrant.
WOOOOOF wof. Wof Woooooof.







The season for the Line at length drew near; and every day when Ahab,
Wof woooof wof wof Woof wf woooof woof woof; wof wooof wof woof Woof,

coming from his cabin, cast his eyes aloft, the vigilant helmsman would
woooof woof wof wooof, woof wof woof wooof, wof woooooof woooooof wooof

ostentatiously handle his spokes, and the eager mariners quickly run to
woooooooooooof woooof wof woooof, wof wof wooof woooooof wooooof wof wf

the braces, and would stand there with all their eyes centrally fixed
wof woooof, wof wooof wooof wooof woof wof wooof woof wooooooof wooof

on the nailed doubloon; impatient for the order to point the ship's
wf wof woooof woooooof; wooooooof wof wof wooof wf wooof wof woof'w

prow for the equator. In good time the order came. It was hard upon high
woof wof wof wooooof. Wf woof woof wof wooof woof. Wf wof woof woof woof

noon; and Ahab, seated in the bows of his high-hoisted boat, was
woof; wof Woof, woooof wf wof woof wf wof woof-wooooof woof, wof

about taking his wonted daily observation of the sun to determine his
wooof woooof wof woooof wooof wooooooooof wf wof wof wf wooooooof wof

latitude.
woooooof.




Now, in that Japanese sea, the days in summer are as freshets of
Wof, wf woof Woooooof wof, wof woof wf woooof wof wf woooooof wf

effulgences. That unblinkingly vivid Japanese sun seems the blazing
wooooooooof. Woof woooooooooof wooof Woooooof wof wooof wof wooooof

focus of the glassy ocean's immeasurable burning-glass. The sky looks
wooof wf wof woooof wooof'w woooooooooof wooooof-wooof. Wof wof wooof

lacquered; clouds there are none; the horizon floats; and this nakedness
wooooooof; woooof wooof wof woof; wof wooooof woooof; wof woof wooooooof

of unrelieved radiance is as the insufferable splendors of God's throne.
wf woooooooof woooooof wf wf wof woooooooooof wooooooof wf Wof'w woooof.

Well that Ahab's quadrant was furnished with coloured glasses, through
Woof woof Woof'w woooooof wof wooooooof woof woooooof wooooof, wooooof

which to take sight of that solar fire. So, swinging his seated form
wooof wf woof wooof wf woof wooof woof. Wf, woooooof wof woooof woof

to the roll of the ship, and with his astrological-looking instrument
wf wof woof wf wof woof, wof woof wof woooooooooof-wooooof woooooooof

placed to his eye, he remained in that posture for some moments to
woooof wf wof wof, wf woooooof wf woof wooooof wof woof wooooof wf

catch the precise instant when the sun should gain its precise meridian.
wooof wof wooooof wooooof woof wof wof woooof woof wof wooooof woooooof.

Meantime while his whole attention was absorbed, the Parsee was kneeling
Woooooof wooof wof wooof wooooooof wof woooooof, wof Woooof wof woooooof

beneath him on the ship's deck, and with face thrown up like Ahab's,
wooooof wof wf wof woof'w woof, wof woof woof woooof wf woof Woof'w,

was eyeing the same sun with him; only the lids of his eyes half hooded
wof woooof wof woof wof woof wof; woof wof woof wf wof woof woof woooof

their orbs, and his wild face was subdued to an earthly passionlessness.
wooof woof, wof wof woof woof wof wooooof wf wf wooooof wooooooooooooof.

At length the desired observation was taken; and with his pencil upon
Wf woooof wof wooooof wooooooooof wof wooof; wof woof wof woooof woof

his ivory leg, Ahab soon calculated what his latitude must be at that
wof wooof wof, Woof woof woooooooof woof wof woooooof woof wf wf woof

precise instant. Then falling into a moment's revery, he again looked up
wooooof wooooof. Woof wooooof woof w woooof'w woooof, wf wooof woooof wf

towards the sun and murmured to himself: "Thou sea-mark! thou high and
wooooof wof wof wof woooooof wf wooooof: "Woof wof-woof! woof woof wof

mighty Pilot! thou tellest me truly where I AM--but canst thou cast the
woooof Wooof! woof wooooof wf wooof wooof W WF--wof wooof woof woof wof

least hint where I SHALL be? Or canst thou tell where some other thing
wooof woof wooof W WOOOF wf? Wf wooof woof woof wooof woof wooof wooof

besides me is this moment living? Where is Moby Dick? This instant thou
wooooof wf wf woof woooof woooof? Wooof wf Woof Woof? Woof wooooof woof

must be eyeing him. These eyes of mine look into the very eye that is
woof wf woooof wof. Wooof woof wf woof woof woof wof woof wof woof wf

even now beholding him; aye, and into the eye that is even now equally
woof wof wooooooof wof; wof, wof woof wof wof woof wf woof wof wooooof

beholding the objects on the unknown, thither side of thee, thou sun!"
wooooooof wof wooooof wf wof wooooof, wooooof woof wf woof, woof wof!"




Then gazing at his quadrant, and handling, one after the other, its
Woof woooof wf wof woooooof, wof woooooof, wof wooof wof wooof, wof

numerous cabalistical contrivances, he pondered again, and muttered:
woooooof woooooooooof woooooooooof, wf woooooof wooof, wof woooooof:

"Foolish toy! babies' plaything of haughty Admirals, and Commodores, and
"Wooooof wof! woooof' wooooooof wf wooooof Woooooof, wof Woooooooof, wof

Captains; the world brags of thee, of thy cunning and might; but what
Woooooof; wof wooof wooof wf woof, wf wof wooooof wof wooof; wof woof

after all canst thou do, but tell the poor, pitiful point, where thou
wooof wof wooof woof wf, wof woof wof woof, wooooof wooof, wooof woof

thyself happenest to be on this wide planet, and the hand that holds
wooooof wooooooof wf wf wf woof woof woooof, wof wof woof woof wooof

thee: no! not one jot more! Thou canst not tell where one drop of water
woof: wf! wof wof wof woof! Woof wooof wof woof wooof wof woof wf wooof

or one grain of sand will be to-morrow noon; and yet with thy impotence
wf wof wooof wf woof woof wf wf-woooof woof; wof wof woof wof wooooooof

thou insultest the sun! Science! Curse thee, thou vain toy; and cursed
woof wooooooof wof wof! Wooooof! Wooof woof, woof woof wof; wof woooof

be all the things that cast man's eyes aloft to that heaven, whose live
wf wof wof woooof woof woof wof'w woof wooof wf woof woooof, wooof woof

vividness but scorches him, as these old eyes are even now scorched
wooooooof wof woooooof wof, wf wooof wof woof wof woof wof woooooof

with thy light, O sun! Level by nature to this earth's horizon are the
woof wof wooof, W wof! Wooof wf woooof wf woof wooof'w wooooof wof wof

glances of man's eyes; not shot from the crown of his head, as if God
wooooof wf wof'w woof; wof woof woof wof wooof wf wof woof, wf wf Wof

had meant him to gaze on his firmament. Curse thee, thou quadrant!"
wof wooof wof wf woof wf wof wooooooof. Wooof woof, woof woooooof!"

dashing it to the deck, "no longer will I guide my earthly way by thee;
wooooof wf wf wof woof, "wf woooof woof W wooof wf wooooof wof wf woof;

the level ship's compass, and the level deadreckoning, by log and by
wof wooof woof'w wooooof, wof wof wooof wooooooooooof, wf wof wof wf

line; THESE shall conduct me, and show me my place on the sea. Aye,"
woof; WOOOF wooof wooooof wf, wof woof wf wf wooof wf wof wof. Wof,"

lighting from the boat to the deck, "thus I trample on thee, thou paltry
woooooof woof wof woof wf wof woof, "woof W wooooof wf woof, woof woooof

thing that feebly pointest on high; thus I split and destroy thee!"
wooof woof woooof woooooof wf woof; woof W wooof wof wooooof woof!"




As the frantic old man thus spoke and thus trampled with his live
Wf wof wooooof wof wof woof wooof wof woof woooooof woof wof woof

and dead feet, a sneering triumph that seemed meant for Ahab, and a
wof woof woof, w woooooof wooooof woof woooof wooof wof Woof, wof w

fatalistic despair that seemed meant for himself--these passed over
woooooooof wooooof woof woooof wooof wof wooooof--wooof woooof woof

the mute, motionless Parsee's face. Unobserved he rose and glided away;
wof woof, woooooooof Woooof'w woof. Woooooooof wf woof wof woooof woof;

while, awestruck by the aspect of their commander, the seamen clustered
wooof, wooooooof wf wof woooof wf wooof wooooooof, wof woooof wooooooof

together on the forecastle, till Ahab, troubledly pacing the deck,
woooooof wf wof woooooooof, woof Woof, woooooooof woooof wof woof,

shouted out--"To the braces! Up helm!--square in!"
wooooof wof--"Wf wof woooof! Wf woof!--woooof wf!"




In an instant the yards swung round; and as the ship half-wheeled upon
Wf wf wooooof wof wooof wooof wooof; wof wf wof woof woof-wooooof woof

her heel, her three firm-seated graceful masts erectly poised upon
wof woof, wof wooof woof-woooof woooooof wooof wooooof woooof woof

her long, ribbed hull, seemed as the three Horatii pirouetting on one
wof woof, woooof woof, woooof wf wof wooof Wooooof wooooooooof wf wof

sufficient steed.
woooooooof wooof.




Standing between the knight-heads, Starbuck watched the Pequod's
Woooooof wooooof wof woooof-wooof, Woooooof wooooof wof Woooof'w

tumultuous way, and Ahab's also, as he went lurching along the deck.
woooooooof wof, wof Woof'w woof, wf wf woof woooooof wooof wof woof.




"I have sat before the dense coal fire and watched it all aglow, full of
"W woof wof woooof wof wooof woof woof wof wooooof wf wof wooof, woof wf

its tormented flaming life; and I have seen it wane at last, down, down,
wof wooooooof wooooof woof; wof W woof woof wf woof wf woof, woof, woof,

to dumbest dust. Old man of oceans! of all this fiery life of thine,
wf wooooof woof. Wof wof wf woooof! wf wof woof wooof woof wf wooof,

what will at length remain but one little heap of ashes!"
woof woof wf woooof woooof wof wof woooof woof wf wooof!"




"Aye," cried Stubb, "but sea-coal ashes--mind ye that, Mr.
"Wof," wooof Wooof, "wof wof-woof wooof--woof wf woof, Wf.

Starbuck--sea-coal, not your common charcoal. Well, well; I heard Ahab
Woooooof--wof-woof, wof woof woooof woooooof. Woof, woof; W wooof Woof

mutter, 'Here some one thrusts these cards into these old hands of mine;
woooof, 'Woof woof wof wooooof wooof wooof woof wooof wof wooof wf woof;

swears that I must play them, and no others.' And damn me, Ahab, but
woooof woof W woof woof woof, wof wf woooof.' Wof woof wf, Woof, wof

thou actest right; live in the game, and die in it!"
woof woooof wooof; woof wf wof woof, wof wof wf wf!"










CHAPTER 119. The Candles.
WOOOOOF wof. Wof Wooooof.







Warmest climes but nurse the cruellest fangs: the tiger of Bengal
Wooooof woooof wof wooof wof wooooooof wooof: wof wooof wf Woooof

crouches in spiced groves of ceaseless verdure. Skies the most effulgent
woooooof wf woooof woooof wf wooooooof wooooof. Wooof wof woof wooooooof

but basket the deadliest thunders: gorgeous Cuba knows tornadoes
wof woooof wof wooooooof woooooof: woooooof Woof wooof wooooooof

that never swept tame northern lands. So, too, it is, that in these
woof wooof wooof woof woooooof wooof. Wf, wof, wf wf, woof wf wooof

resplendent Japanese seas the mariner encounters the direst of all
wooooooooof Woooooof woof wof wooooof woooooooof wof woooof wf wof

storms, the Typhoon. It will sometimes burst from out that cloudless
woooof, wof Wooooof. Wf woof wooooooof wooof woof wof woof wooooooof

sky, like an exploding bomb upon a dazed and sleepy town.
wof, woof wf wooooooof woof woof w wooof wof woooof woof.




Towards evening of that day, the Pequod was torn of her canvas, and
Wooooof wooooof wf woof wof, wof Woooof wof woof wf wof woooof, wof

bare-poled was left to fight a Typhoon which had struck her directly
woof-wooof wof woof wf wooof w Wooooof wooof wof woooof wof woooooof

ahead. When darkness came on, sky and sea roared and split with the
wooof. Woof woooooof woof wf, wof wof wof woooof wof wooof woof wof

thunder, and blazed with the lightning, that showed the disabled masts
wooooof, wof woooof woof wof wooooooof, woof woooof wof woooooof wooof

fluttering here and there with the rags which the first fury of the
woooooooof woof wof wooof woof wof woof wooof wof wooof woof wf wof

tempest had left for its after sport.
wooooof wof woof wof wof wooof wooof.




Holding by a shroud, Starbuck was standing on the quarter-deck; at every
Wooooof wf w woooof, Woooooof wof woooooof wf wof wooooof-woof; wf wooof

flash of the lightning glancing aloft, to see what additional disaster
wooof wf wof wooooooof woooooof wooof, wf wof woof woooooooof woooooof

might have befallen the intricate hamper there; while Stubb and Flask
wooof woof woooooof wof wooooooof woooof wooof; wooof Wooof wof Wooof

were directing the men in the higher hoisting and firmer lashing of the
woof wooooooof wof wof wf wof woooof woooooof wof woooof wooooof wf wof

boats. But all their pains seemed naught. Though lifted to the very
wooof. Wof wof wooof wooof woooof woooof. Woooof woooof wf wof woof

top of the cranes, the windward quarter boat (Ahab's) did not escape.
wof wf wof woooof, wof woooooof wooooof woof (Woof'w) wof wof woooof.

A great rolling sea, dashing high up against the reeling ship's high
W wooof wooooof wof, wooooof woof wf wooooof wof wooooof woof'w woof

teetering side, stove in the boat's bottom at the stern, and left it
wooooooof woof, wooof wf wof woof'w woooof wf wof wooof, wof woof wf

again, all dripping through like a sieve.
wooof, wof woooooof wooooof woof w wooof.




"Bad work, bad work! Mr. Starbuck," said Stubb, regarding the wreck,
"Wof woof, wof woof! Wf. Woooooof," woof Wooof, wooooooof wof wooof,

"but the sea will have its way. Stubb, for one, can't fight it. You see,
"wof wof wof woof woof wof wof. Wooof, wof wof, wof'w wooof wf. Wof wof,

Mr. Starbuck, a wave has such a great long start before it leaps, all
Wf. Woooooof, w woof wof woof w wooof woof wooof woooof wf wooof, wof

round the world it runs, and then comes the spring! But as for me, all
wooof wof wooof wf woof, wof woof wooof wof woooof! Wof wf wof wf, wof

the start I have to meet it, is just across the deck here. But never
wof wooof W woof wf woof wf, wf woof woooof wof woof woof. Wof wooof

mind; it's all in fun: so the old song says;"--(SINGS.)
woof; wf'w wof wf wof: wf wof wof woof woof;"--(WOOOF.)




  Oh! jolly is the gale,
  Wf! wooof wf wof woof,

  And a joker is the whale,
  Wof w wooof wf wof wooof,

  A' flourishin' his tail,--
  W' woooooooof' wof woof,--

  Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, is the Ocean, oh!
  Woof w wooof, woooof, woof, wooof, woof, woof-woof wof, wf wof Wooof, wf!




  The scud all a flyin',
  Wof woof wof w wooof',

  That's his flip only foamin';
  Woof'w wof woof woof woooof';

  When he stirs in the spicin',--
  Woof wf wooof wf wof woooof',--

  Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, is the Ocean, oh!
  Woof w wooof, woooof, woof, wooof, woof, woof-woof wof, wf wof Wooof, wf!




  Thunder splits the ships,
  Wooooof woooof wof wooof,

  But he only smacks his lips,
  Wof wf woof woooof wof woof,

  A tastin' of this flip,--
  W woooof' wf woof woof,--

  Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, is the Ocean, oh!
  Woof w wooof, woooof, woof, wooof, woof, woof-woof wof, wf wof Wooof, wf!







"Avast Stubb," cried Starbuck, "let the Typhoon sing, and strike his
"Wooof Wooof," wooof Woooooof, "wof wof Wooooof woof, wof woooof wof

harp here in our rigging; but if thou art a brave man thou wilt hold thy
woof woof wf wof wooooof; wof wf woof wof w wooof wof woof woof woof wof

peace."
wooof."




"But I am not a brave man; never said I was a brave man; I am a coward;
"Wof W wf wof w wooof wof; wooof woof W wof w wooof wof; W wf w woooof;

and I sing to keep up my spirits. And I tell you what it is, Mr.
wof W woof wf woof wf wf wooooof. Wof W woof wof woof wf wf, Wf.

Starbuck, there's no way to stop my singing in this world but to cut my
Woooooof, wooof'w wf wof wf woof wf wooooof wf woof wooof wof wf wof wf

throat. And when that's done, ten to one I sing ye the doxology for a
woooof. Wof woof woof'w woof, wof wf wof W woof wf wof woooooof wof w

wind-up."
woof-wf."




"Madman! look through my eyes if thou hast none of thine own."
"Woooof! woof wooooof wf woof wf woof woof woof wf wooof wof."




"What! how can you see better of a dark night than anybody else, never
"Woof! wof wof wof wof woooof wf w woof wooof woof wooooof woof, wooof

mind how foolish?"
woof wof wooooof?"




"Here!" cried Starbuck, seizing Stubb by the shoulder, and pointing his
"Woof!" wooof Woooooof, wooooof Wooof wf wof woooooof, wof woooooof wof

hand towards the weather bow, "markest thou not that the gale comes from
woof wooooof wof wooooof wof, "wooooof woof wof woof wof woof wooof woof

the eastward, the very course Ahab is to run for Moby Dick? the very
wof woooooof, wof woof woooof Woof wf wf wof wof Woof Woof? wof woof

course he swung to this day noon? now mark his boat there; where is
woooof wf wooof wf woof wof woof? wof woof wof woof wooof; wooof wf

that stove? In the stern-sheets, man; where he is wont to stand--his
woof wooof? Wf wof wooof-woooof, wof; wooof wf wf woof wf wooof--wof

stand-point is stove, man! Now jump overboard, and sing away, if thou
wooof-wooof wf wooof, wof! Wof woof wooooooof, wof woof woof, wf woof

must!
woof!




"I don't half understand ye: what's in the wind?"
"W wof'w woof woooooooof wf: woof'w wf wof woof?"




"Yes, yes, round the Cape of Good Hope is the shortest way to
"Wof, wof, wooof wof Woof wf Woof Woof wf wof woooooof wof wf

Nantucket," soliloquized Starbuck suddenly, heedless of Stubb's
Wooooooof," woooooooooof Woooooof woooooof, woooooof wf Wooof'w

question. "The gale that now hammers at us to stave us, we can turn it
woooooof. "Wof woof woof wof wooooof wf wf wf wooof wf, wf wof woof wf

into a fair wind that will drive us towards home. Yonder, to windward,
woof w woof woof woof woof wooof wf wooooof woof. Woooof, wf woooooof,

all is blackness of doom; but to leeward, homeward--I see it lightens up
wof wf wooooooof wf woof; wof wf wooooof, woooooof--W wof wf woooooof wf

there; but not with the lightning."
wooof; wof wof woof wof wooooooof."




At that moment in one of the intervals of profound darkness, following
Wf woof woooof wf wof wf wof wooooooof wf woooooof woooooof, wooooooof

the flashes, a voice was heard at his side; and almost at the same
wof wooooof, w wooof wof wooof wf wof woof; wof woooof wf wof woof

instant a volley of thunder peals rolled overhead.
wooooof w woooof wf wooooof wooof woooof woooooof.




"Who's there?"
"Wof'w wooof?"




"Old Thunder!" said Ahab, groping his way along the bulwarks to his
"Wof Wooooof!" woof Woof, wooooof wof wof wooof wof woooooof wf wof

pivot-hole; but suddenly finding his path made plain to him by elbowed
wooof-woof; wof woooooof wooooof wof woof woof wooof wf wof wf wooooof

lances of fire.
woooof wf woof.




Now, as the lightning rod to a spire on shore is intended to carry off
Wof, wf wof wooooooof wof wf w wooof wf wooof wf woooooof wf wooof wof

the perilous fluid into the soil; so the kindred rod which at sea some
wof woooooof wooof woof wof woof; wf wof wooooof wof wooof wf wof woof

ships carry to each mast, is intended to conduct it into the water. But
wooof wooof wf woof woof, wf woooooof wf wooooof wf woof wof wooof. Wof

as this conductor must descend to considerable depth, that its end may
wf woof wooooooof woof wooooof wf woooooooooof wooof, woof wof wof wof

avoid all contact with the hull; and as moreover, if kept constantly
wooof wof wooooof woof wof woof; wof wf woooooof, wf woof woooooooof

towing there, it would be liable to many mishaps, besides interfering
woooof wooof, wf wooof wf woooof wf woof wooooof, wooooof wooooooooof

not a little with some of the rigging, and more or less impeding the
wof w woooof woof woof wf wof wooooof, wof woof wf woof woooooof wof

vessel's way in the water; because of all this, the lower parts of a
woooof'w wof wf wof wooof; wooooof wf wof woof, wof wooof wooof wf w

ship's lightning-rods are not always overboard; but are generally made
woof'w wooooooof-woof wof wof woooof wooooooof; wof wof wooooooof woof

in long slender links, so as to be the more readily hauled up into the
wf woof wooooof wooof, wf wf wf wf wof woof wooooof woooof wf woof wof

chains outside, or thrown down into the sea, as occasion may require.
woooof wooooof, wf woooof woof woof wof wof, wf woooooof wof wooooof.




"The rods! the rods!" cried Starbuck to the crew, suddenly admonished to
"Wof woof! wof woof!" wooof Woooooof wf wof woof, woooooof woooooooof wf

vigilance by the vivid lightning that had just been darting flambeaux,
wooooooof wf wof wooof wooooooof woof wof woof woof wooooof wooooooof,

to light Ahab to his post. "Are they overboard? drop them over, fore and
wf wooof Woof wf wof woof. "Wof woof wooooooof? woof woof woof, woof wof

aft. Quick!"
wof. Wooof!"




"Avast!" cried Ahab; "let's have fair play here, though we be the weaker
"Wooof!" wooof Woof; "wof'w woof woof woof woof, woooof wf wf wof woooof

side. Yet I'll contribute to raise rods on the Himmalehs and Andes, that
woof. Wof W'wf woooooooof wf wooof woof wf wof Wooooooof wof Wooof, woof

all the world may be secured; but out on privileges! Let them be, sir."
wof wof wooof wof wf wooooof; wof wof wf woooooooof! Wof woof wf, wof."




"Look aloft!" cried Starbuck. "The corpusants! the corpusants!"
"Woof wooof!" wooof Woooooof. "Wof woooooooof! wof woooooooof!"




All the yard-arms were tipped with a pallid fire; and touched at each
Wof wof woof-woof woof woooof woof w woooof woof; wof wooooof wf woof

tri-pointed lightning-rod-end with three tapering white flames, each of
wof-wooooof wooooooof-wof-wof woof wooof woooooof wooof woooof, woof wf

the three tall masts was silently burning in that sulphurous air, like
wof wooof woof wooof wof woooooof wooooof wf woof woooooooof wof, woof

three gigantic wax tapers before an altar.
wooof woooooof wof woooof woooof wf wooof.




"Blast the boat! let it go!" cried Stubb at this instant, as a swashing
"Wooof wof woof! wof wf wf!" wooof Wooof wf woof wooooof, wf w woooooof

sea heaved up under his own little craft, so that its gunwale violently
wof woooof wf wooof wof wof woooof wooof, wf woof wof wooooof wooooooof

jammed his hand, as he was passing a lashing. "Blast it!"--but
woooof wof woof, wf wf wof wooooof w wooooof. "Wooof wf!"--wof

slipping backward on the deck, his uplifted eyes caught the flames; and
woooooof woooooof wf wof woof, wof woooooof woof woooof wof woooof; wof

immediately shifting his tone he cried--"The corpusants have mercy on us
wooooooooof woooooof wof woof wf wooof--"Wof woooooooof woof wooof wf wf

all!"
wof!"




To sailors, oaths are household words; they will swear in the trance of
Wf wooooof, wooof wof wooooooof wooof; woof woof wooof wf wof woooof wf

the calm, and in the teeth of the tempest; they will imprecate curses
wof woof, wof wf wof wooof wf wof wooooof; woof woof wooooooof woooof

from the topsail-yard-arms, when most they teeter over to a seething
woof wof wooooof-woof-woof, woof woof woof woooof woof wf w woooooof

sea; but in all my voyagings, seldom have I heard a common oath when
wof; wof wf wof wf wooooooof, woooof woof W wooof w woooof woof woof

God's burning finger has been laid on the ship; when His "Mene, Mene,
Wof'w wooooof woooof wof woof woof wf wof woof; woof Wof "Woof, Woof,

Tekel Upharsin" has been woven into the shrouds and the cordage.
Wooof Woooooof" wof woof wooof woof wof wooooof wof wof wooooof.




While this pallidness was burning aloft, few words were heard from the
Wooof woof woooooooof wof wooooof wooof, wof wooof woof wooof woof wof

enchanted crew; who in one thick cluster stood on the forecastle,
wooooooof woof; wof wf wof wooof wooooof wooof wf wof woooooooof,

all their eyes gleaming in that pale phosphorescence, like a far away
wof wooof woof woooooof wf woof woof wooooooooooooof, woof w wof woof

constellation of stars. Relieved against the ghostly light, the gigantic
wooooooooooof wf wooof. Woooooof wooooof wof wooooof wooof, wof woooooof

jet negro, Daggoo, loomed up to thrice his real stature, and seemed
wof wooof, Woooof, woooof wf wf woooof wof woof wooooof, wof woooof

the black cloud from which the thunder had come. The parted mouth of
wof wooof wooof woof wooof wof wooooof wof woof. Wof woooof wooof wf

Tashtego revealed his shark-white teeth, which strangely gleamed as
Woooooof woooooof wof wooof-wooof wooof, wooof wooooooof wooooof wf

if they too had been tipped by corpusants; while lit up by the
wf woof wof wof woof woooof wf woooooooof; wooof wof wf wf wof

preternatural light, Queequeg's tattooing burned like Satanic blue
wooooooooooof wooof, Woooooof'w wooooooof woooof woof Wooooof woof

flames on his body.
woooof wf wof woof.




The tableau all waned at last with the pallidness aloft; and once more
Wof wooooof wof wooof wf woof woof wof woooooooof wooof; wof woof woof

the Pequod and every soul on her decks were wrapped in a pall. A moment
wof Woooof wof wooof woof wf wof wooof woof wooooof wf w woof. W woooof

or two passed, when Starbuck, going forward, pushed against some one. It
wf wof woooof, woof Woooooof, wooof wooooof, woooof wooooof woof wof. Wf

was Stubb. "What thinkest thou now, man; I heard thy cry; it was not the
wof Wooof. "Woof woooooof woof wof, wof; W wooof wof wof; wf wof wof wof

same in the song."
woof wf wof woof."




"No, no, it wasn't; I said the corpusants have mercy on us all; and I
"Wf, wf, wf woof'w; W woof wof woooooooof woof wooof wf wf wof; wof W

hope they will, still. But do they only have mercy on long faces?--have
woof woof woof, wooof. Wof wf woof woof woof wooof wf woof wooof?--woof

they no bowels for a laugh? And look ye, Mr. Starbuck--but it's too dark
woof wf woooof wof w wooof? Wof woof wf, Wf. Woooooof--wof wf'w wof woof

to look. Hear me, then: I take that mast-head flame we saw for a sign
wf woof. Woof wf, woof: W woof woof woof-woof wooof wf wof wof w woof

of good luck; for those masts are rooted in a hold that is going to be
wf woof woof; wof wooof wooof wof woooof wf w woof woof wf wooof wf wf

chock a' block with sperm-oil, d'ye see; and so, all that sperm will
wooof w' wooof woof wooof-wof, w'wf wof; wof wf, wof woof wooof woof

work up into the masts, like sap in a tree. Yes, our three masts will
woof wf woof wof wooof, woof wof wf w woof. Wof, wof wooof wooof woof

yet be as three spermaceti candles--that's the good promise we saw."
wof wf wf wooof woooooooof wooooof--woof'w wof woof wooooof wf wof."




At that moment Starbuck caught sight of Stubb's face slowly beginning
Wf woof woooof Woooooof woooof wooof wf Wooof'w woof woooof wooooooof

to glimmer into sight. Glancing upwards, he cried: "See! see!" and once
wf wooooof woof wooof. Woooooof wooooof, wf wooof: "Wof! wof!" wof woof

more the high tapering flames were beheld with what seemed redoubled
woof wof woof woooooof woooof woof woooof woof woof woooof wooooooof

supernaturalness in their pallor.
woooooooooooooof wf wooof woooof.




"The corpusants have mercy on us all," cried Stubb, again.
"Wof woooooooof woof wooof wf wf wof," wooof Wooof, wooof.




At the base of the mainmast, full beneath the doubloon and the flame,
Wf wof woof wf wof woooooof, woof wooooof wof woooooof wof wof wooof,

the Parsee was kneeling in Ahab's front, but with his head bowed away
wof Woooof wof woooooof wf Woof'w wooof, wof woof wof woof wooof woof

from him; while near by, from the arched and overhanging rigging, where
woof wof; wooof woof wf, woof wof woooof wof wooooooooof wooooof, wooof

they had just been engaged securing a spar, a number of the seamen,
woof wof woof woof wooooof woooooof w woof, w woooof wf wof woooof,

arrested by the glare, now cohered together, and hung pendulous, like a
woooooof wf wof wooof, wof wooooof woooooof, wof woof wooooooof, woof w

knot of numbed wasps from a drooping, orchard twig. In various enchanted
woof wf woooof wooof woof w woooooof, wooooof woof. Wf wooooof wooooooof

attitudes, like the standing, or stepping, or running skeletons in
wooooooof, woof wof woooooof, wf woooooof, wf wooooof wooooooof wf

Herculaneum, others remained rooted to the deck; but all their eyes
Wooooooooof, woooof woooooof woooof wf wof woof; wof wof wooof woof

upcast.
woooof.




"Aye, aye, men!" cried Ahab. "Look up at it; mark it well; the white
"Wof, wof, wof!" wooof Woof. "Woof wf wf wf; woof wf woof; wof wooof

flame but lights the way to the White Whale! Hand me those mainmast
wooof wof woooof wof wof wf wof Wooof Wooof! Woof wf wooof woooooof

links there; I would fain feel this pulse, and let mine beat against it;
wooof wooof; W wooof woof woof woof wooof, wof wof woof woof wooooof wf;

blood against fire! So."
wooof wooooof woof! Wf."




Then turning--the last link held fast in his left hand, he put his foot
Woof wooooof--wof woof woof woof woof wf wof woof woof, wf wof wof woof

upon the Parsee; and with fixed upward eye, and high-flung right arm, he
woof wof Woooof; wof woof wooof woooof wof, wof woof-wooof wooof wof, wf

stood erect before the lofty tri-pointed trinity of flames.
wooof wooof woooof wof wooof wof-wooooof wooooof wf woooof.




"Oh! thou clear spirit of clear fire, whom on these seas I as Persian
"Wf! woof wooof woooof wf wooof woof, woof wf wooof woof W wf Wooooof

once did worship, till in the sacramental act so burned by thee, that to
woof wof wooooof, woof wf wof wooooooooof wof wf woooof wf woof, woof wf

this hour I bear the scar; I now know thee, thou clear spirit, and I now
woof woof W woof wof woof; W wof woof woof, woof wooof woooof, wof W wof

know that thy right worship is defiance. To neither love nor reverence
woof woof wof wooof wooooof wf woooooof. Wf wooooof woof wof wooooooof

wilt thou be kind; and e'en for hate thou canst but kill; and all
woof woof wf woof; wof w'wf wof woof woof wooof wof woof; wof wof

are killed. No fearless fool now fronts thee. I own thy speechless,
wof woooof. Wf woooooof woof wof woooof woof. W wof wof woooooooof,

placeless power; but to the last gasp of my earthquake life will
wooooooof wooof; wof wf wof woof woof wf wf woooooooof woof woof

dispute its unconditional, unintegral mastery in me. In the midst of the
wooooof wof wooooooooooof, woooooooof wooooof wf wf. Wf wof wooof wf wof

personified impersonal, a personality stands here. Though but a point at
wooooooooof woooooooof, w wooooooooof woooof woof. Woooof wof w wooof wf

best; whencesoe'er I came; wheresoe'er I go; yet while I earthly live,
woof; wooooooof'wf W woof; woooooof'wf W wf; wof wooof W wooooof woof,

the queenly personality lives in me, and feels her royal rights. But war
wof wooooof wooooooooof wooof wf wf, wof wooof wof wooof woooof. Wof wof

is pain, and hate is woe. Come in thy lowest form of love, and I will
wf woof, wof woof wf wof. Woof wf wof woooof woof wf woof, wof W woof

kneel and kiss thee; but at thy highest, come as mere supernal power;
wooof wof woof woof; wof wf wof wooooof, woof wf woof woooooof wooof;

and though thou launchest navies of full-freighted worlds, there's that
wof woooof woof wooooooof woooof wf woof-wooooooof woooof, wooof'w woof

in here that still remains indifferent. Oh, thou clear spirit, of thy
wf woof woof wooof wooooof wooooooooof. Wf, woof wooof woooof, wf wof

fire thou madest me, and like a true child of fire, I breathe it back to
woof woof woooof wf, wof woof w woof wooof wf woof, W wooooof wf woof wf

thee."
woof."




[SUDDEN, REPEATED FLASHES OF LIGHTNING; THE NINE FLAMES LEAP LENGTHWISE
[WOOOOF, WOOOOOOF WOOOOOF WF WOOOOOOOF; WOF WOOF WOOOOF WOOF WOOOOOOOOF

TO THRICE THEIR PREVIOUS HEIGHT; AHAB, WITH THE REST, CLOSES HIS EYES,
WF WOOOOF WOOOF WOOOOOOF WOOOOF; WOOF, WOOF WOF WOOF, WOOOOF WOF WOOF,

HIS RIGHT HAND PRESSED HARD UPON THEM.]
WOF WOOOF WOOF WOOOOOF WOOF WOOF WOOF.]




"I own thy speechless, placeless power; said I not so? Nor was it wrung
"W wof wof woooooooof, wooooooof wooof; woof W wof wf? Wof wof wf wooof

from me; nor do I now drop these links. Thou canst blind; but I can then
woof wf; wof wf W wof woof wooof wooof. Woof wooof wooof; wof W wof woof

grope. Thou canst consume; but I can then be ashes. Take the homage of
wooof. Woof wooof wooooof; wof W wof woof wf wooof. Woof wof woooof wf

these poor eyes, and shutter-hands. I would not take it. The lightning
wooof woof woof, wof wooooof-wooof. W wooof wof woof wf. Wof wooooooof

flashes through my skull; mine eye-balls ache and ache; my whole beaten
wooooof wooooof wf wooof; woof wof-wooof woof wof woof; wf wooof woooof

brain seems as beheaded, and rolling on some stunning ground. Oh, oh!
wooof wooof wf woooooof, wof wooooof wf woof woooooof woooof. Wf, wf!

Yet blindfold, yet will I talk to thee. Light though thou be, thou
Wof wooooooof, wof woof W woof wf woof. Wooof woooof woof wf, woof

leapest out of darkness; but I am darkness leaping out of light, leaping
wooooof wof wf woooooof; wof W wf woooooof wooooof wof wf wooof, wooooof

out of thee! The javelins cease; open eyes; see, or not? There burn the
wof wf woof! Wof woooooof wooof; woof woof; wof, wf wof? Wooof woof wof

flames! Oh, thou magnanimous! now I do glory in my genealogy. But thou
woooof! Wf, woof wooooooooof! wof W wf wooof wf wf wooooooof. Wof woof

art but my fiery father; my sweet mother, I know not. Oh, cruel! what
wof wof wf wooof woooof; wf wooof woooof, W woof wof. Wf, wooof! woof

hast thou done with her? There lies my puzzle; but thine is greater.
woof woof woof woof wof? Wooof woof wf woooof; wof wooof wf wooooof.

Thou knowest not how came ye, hence callest thyself unbegotten;
Woof wooooof wof wof woof wf, wooof wooooof wooooof woooooooof;

certainly knowest not thy beginning, hence callest thyself unbegun. I
wooooooof wooooof wof wof wooooooof, wooof wooooof wooooof wooooof. W

know that of me, which thou knowest not of thyself, oh, thou omnipotent.
woof woof wf wf, wooof woof wooooof wof wf wooooof, wf, woof woooooooof.

There is some unsuffusing thing beyond thee, thou clear spirit, to whom
Wooof wf woof wooooooooof wooof woooof woof, woof wooof woooof, wf woof

all thy eternity is but time, all thy creativeness mechanical. Through
wof wof woooooof wf wof woof, wof wof woooooooooof woooooooof. Wooooof

thee, thy flaming self, my scorched eyes do dimly see it. Oh, thou
woof, wof wooooof woof, wf woooooof woof wf wooof wof wf. Wf, woof

foundling fire, thou hermit immemorial, thou too hast thy incommunicable
wooooooof woof, woof woooof woooooooof, woof wof woof wof woooooooooooof

riddle, thy unparticipated grief. Here again with haughty agony, I read
woooof, wof woooooooooooof wooof. Woof wooof woof wooooof wooof, W woof

my sire. Leap! leap up, and lick the sky! I leap with thee; I burn with
wf woof. Woof! woof wf, wof woof wof wof! W woof woof woof; W woof woof

thee; would fain be welded with thee; defyingly I worship thee!"
woof; wooof woof wf woooof woof woof; wooooooof W wooooof woof!"




"The boat! the boat!" cried Starbuck, "look at thy boat, old man!"
"Wof woof! wof woof!" wooof Woooooof, "woof wf wof woof, wof wof!"




Ahab's harpoon, the one forged at Perth's fire, remained firmly lashed
Woof'w wooooof, wof wof woooof wf Wooof'w woof, woooooof woooof woooof

in its conspicuous crotch, so that it projected beyond his whale-boat's
wf wof wooooooooof woooof, wf woof wf wooooooof woooof wof wooof-woof'w

bow; but the sea that had stove its bottom had caused the loose leather
wof; wof wof wof woof wof wooof wof woooof wof woooof wof wooof wooooof

sheath to drop off; and from the keen steel barb there now came a
woooof wf woof wof; wof woof wof woof wooof woof wooof wof woof w

levelled flame of pale, forked fire. As the silent harpoon burned there
woooooof wooof wf woof, woooof woof. Wf wof woooof wooooof woooof wooof

like a serpent's tongue, Starbuck grasped Ahab by the arm--"God, God
woof w wooooof'w woooof, Woooooof wooooof Woof wf wof wof--"Wof, Wof

is against thee, old man; forbear! 'tis an ill voyage! ill begun, ill
wf wooooof woof, wof wof; wooooof! 'wof wf wof woooof! wof wooof, wof

continued; let me square the yards, while we may, old man, and make a
wooooooof; wof wf woooof wof wooof, wooof wf wof, wof wof, wof woof w

fair wind of it homewards, to go on a better voyage than this."
woof woof wf wf wooooooof, wf wf wf w woooof woooof woof woof."




Overhearing Starbuck, the panic-stricken crew instantly ran to the
Wooooooooof Woooooof, wof wooof-woooooof woof wooooooof wof wf wof

braces--though not a sail was left aloft. For the moment all the aghast
woooof--woooof wof w woof wof woof wooof. Wof wof woooof wof wof woooof

mate's thoughts seemed theirs; they raised a half mutinous cry. But
woof'w woooooof woooof woooof; woof woooof w woof woooooof wof. Wof

dashing the rattling lightning links to the deck, and snatching the
wooooof wof woooooof wooooooof wooof wf wof woof, wof wooooooof wof

burning harpoon, Ahab waved it like a torch among them; swearing to
wooooof wooooof, Woof wooof wf woof w wooof wooof woof; woooooof wf

transfix with it the first sailor that but cast loose a rope's end.
woooooof woof wf wof wooof woooof woof wof woof wooof w woof'w wof.

Petrified by his aspect, and still more shrinking from the fiery dart
Wooooooof wf wof woooof, wof wooof woof wooooooof woof wof wooof woof

that he held, the men fell back in dismay, and Ahab again spoke:--
woof wf woof, wof wof woof woof wf woooof, wof Woof wooof wooof:--




"All your oaths to hunt the White Whale are as binding as mine; and
"Wof woof wooof wf woof wof Wooof Wooof wof wf wooooof wf woof; wof

heart, soul, and body, lungs and life, old Ahab is bound. And that ye
wooof, woof, wof woof, wooof wof woof, wof Woof wf wooof. Wof woof wf

may know to what tune this heart beats; look ye here; thus I blow out
wof woof wf woof woof woof wooof wooof; woof wf woof; woof W woof wof

the last fear!" And with one blast of his breath he extinguished the
wof woof woof!" Wof woof wof wooof wf wof woooof wf woooooooooof wof

flame.
wooof.




As in the hurricane that sweeps the plain, men fly the neighborhood of
Wf wf wof wooooooof woof woooof wof wooof, wof wof wof woooooooooof wf

some lone, gigantic elm, whose very height and strength but render it so
woof woof, woooooof wof, wooof woof woooof wof woooooof wof woooof wf wf

much the more unsafe, because so much the more a mark for thunderbolts;
woof wof woof woooof, wooooof wf woof wof woof w woof wof woooooooooof;

so at those last words of Ahab's many of the mariners did run from him
wf wf wooof woof wooof wf Woof'w woof wf wof woooooof wof wof woof wof

in a terror of dismay.
wf w woooof wf woooof.










CHAPTER 120. The Deck Towards the End of the First Night Watch.
WOOOOOF wof. Wof Woof Wooooof wof Wof wf wof Wooof Wooof Wooof.




AHAB STANDING BY THE HELM. STARBUCK APPROACHING HIM.
WOOF WOOOOOOF WF WOF WOOF. WOOOOOOF WOOOOOOOOOF WOF.







"We must send down the main-top-sail yard, sir. The band is working loose
"Wf woof woof woof wof woof-wof-woof woof, wof. Wof woof wf wooooof wooof

and the lee lift is half-stranded. Shall I strike it, sir?"
wof wof wof woof wf woof-woooooof. Wooof W woooof wf, wof?"




"Strike nothing; lash it. If I had sky-sail poles, I'd sway them up
"Woooof wooooof; woof wf. Wf W wof wof-woof wooof, W'w woof woof wf

now."
wof."




"Sir!--in God's name!--sir?"
"Wof!--wf Wof'w woof!--wof?"




"Well."
"Woof."




"The anchors are working, sir. Shall I get them inboard?"
"Wof wooooof wof wooooof, wof. Wooof W wof woof wooooof?"




"Strike nothing, and stir nothing, but lash everything. The wind rises,
"Woooof wooooof, wof woof wooooof, wof woof woooooooof. Wof woof wooof,

but it has not got up to my table-lands yet. Quick, and see to it.--By
wof wf wof wof wof wf wf wf wooof-wooof wof. Wooof, wof wof wf wf.--Wf

masts and keels! he takes me for the hunch-backed skipper of some
wooof wof wooof! wf wooof wf wof wof wooof-woooof wooooof wf woof

coasting smack. Send down my main-top-sail yard! Ho, gluepots! Loftiest
woooooof wooof. Woof woof wf woof-wof-woof woof! Wf, woooooof! Woooooof

trucks were made for wildest winds, and this brain-truck of mine now
woooof woof woof wof wooooof wooof, wof woof wooof-wooof wf woof wof

sails amid the cloud-scud. Shall I strike that? Oh, none but cowards
wooof woof wof wooof-woof. Wooof W woooof woof? Wf, woof wof wooooof

send down their brain-trucks in tempest time. What a hooroosh aloft
woof woof wooof wooof-woooof wf wooooof woof. Woof w woooooof wooof

there! I would e'en take it for sublime, did I not know that the colic
wooof! W wooof w'wf woof wf wof wooooof, wof W wof woof woof wof wooof

is a noisy malady. Oh, take medicine, take medicine!"
wf w wooof woooof. Wf, woof woooooof, woof woooooof!"










CHAPTER 121. Midnight.--The Forecastle Bulwarks.
WOOOOOF wof. Woooooof.--Wof Woooooooof Woooooof.







STUBB AND FLASK MOUNTED ON THEM, AND PASSING ADDITIONAL LASHINGS OVER
WOOOF WOF WOOOF WOOOOOF WF WOOF, WOF WOOOOOF WOOOOOOOOF WOOOOOOF WOOF

THE ANCHORS THERE HANGING.
WOF WOOOOOF WOOOF WOOOOOF.







"No, Stubb; you may pound that knot there as much as you please, but you
"Wf, Wooof; wof wof wooof woof woof wooof wf woof wf wof woooof, wof wof

will never pound into me what you were just now saying. And how long
woof wooof wooof woof wf woof wof woof woof wof woooof. Wof wof woof

ago is it since you said the very contrary? Didn't you once say that
wof wf wf wooof wof woof wof woof woooooof? Woof'w wof woof wof woof

whatever ship Ahab sails in, that ship should pay something extra on its
woooooof woof Woof wooof wf, woof woof woooof wof wooooooof wooof wf wof

insurance policy, just as though it were loaded with powder barrels aft
wooooooof woooof, woof wf woooof wf woof woooof woof woooof wooooof wof

and boxes of lucifers forward? Stop, now; didn't you say so?"
wof wooof wf woooooof wooooof? Woof, wof; woof'w wof wof wf?"




"Well, suppose I did? What then? I've part changed my flesh since that
"Woof, wooooof W wof? Woof woof? W'wf woof wooooof wf wooof wooof woof

time, why not my mind? Besides, supposing we ARE loaded with powder
woof, wof wof wf woof? Wooooof, wooooooof wf WOF woooof woof woooof

barrels aft and lucifers forward; how the devil could the lucifers get
wooooof wof wof woooooof wooooof; wof wof wooof wooof wof woooooof wof

afire in this drenching spray here? Why, my little man, you have
wooof wf woof wooooooof wooof woof? Wof, wf woooof wof, wof woof

pretty red hair, but you couldn't get afire now. Shake yourself; you're
woooof wof woof, wof wof woooof'w wof wooof wof. Wooof woooooof; wof'wf

Aquarius, or the water-bearer, Flask; might fill pitchers at your coat
Woooooof, wf wof wooof-woooof, Wooof; wooof woof woooooof wf woof woof

collar. Don't you see, then, that for these extra risks the Marine
woooof. Wof'w wof wof, woof, woof wof wooof wooof wooof wof Woooof

Insurance companies have extra guarantees? Here are hydrants, Flask. But
Wooooooof wooooooof woof wooof woooooooof? Woof wof woooooof, Wooof. Wof

hark, again, and I'll answer ye the other thing. First take your leg off
woof, wooof, wof W'wf woooof wf wof wooof wooof. Wooof woof woof wof wof

from the crown of the anchor here, though, so I can pass the rope;
woof wof wooof wf wof woooof woof, woooof, wf W wof woof wof woof;

now listen. What's the mighty difference between holding a mast's
wof woooof. Woof'w wof woooof woooooooof wooooof wooooof w woof'w

lightning-rod in the storm, and standing close by a mast that hasn't
wooooooof-wof wf wof wooof, wof woooooof wooof wf w woof woof woof'w

got any lightning-rod at all in a storm? Don't you see, you timber-head,
wof wof wooooooof-wof wf wof wf w wooof? Wof'w wof wof, wof woooof-woof,

that no harm can come to the holder of the rod, unless the mast is first
woof wf woof wof woof wf wof woooof wf wof wof, woooof wof woof wf wooof

struck? What are you talking about, then? Not one ship in a hundred
woooof? Woof wof wof wooooof wooof, woof? Wof wof woof wf w wooooof

carries rods, and Ahab,--aye, man, and all of us,--were in no more
wooooof woof, wof Woof,--wof, wof, wof wof wf wf,--woof wf wf woof

danger then, in my poor opinion, than all the crews in ten thousand
woooof woof, wf wf woof wooooof, woof wof wof wooof wf wof woooooof

ships now sailing the seas. Why, you King-Post, you, I suppose you would
wooof wof wooooof wof woof. Wof, wof Woof-Woof, wof, W wooooof wof wooof

have every man in the world go about with a small lightning-rod running
woof wooof wof wf wof wooof wf wooof woof w wooof wooooooof-wof wooooof

up the corner of his hat, like a militia officer's skewered feather,
wf wof woooof wf wof wof, woof w wooooof wooooof'w woooooof wooooof,

and trailing behind like his sash. Why don't ye be sensible, Flask? it's
wof woooooof woooof woof wof woof. Wof wof'w wf wf woooooof, Wooof? wf'w

easy to be sensible; why don't ye, then? any man with half an eye can be
woof wf wf woooooof; wof wof'w wf, woof? wof wof woof woof wf wof wof wf

sensible."
woooooof."




"I don't know that, Stubb. You sometimes find it rather hard."
"W wof'w woof woof, Wooof. Wof wooooooof woof wf woooof woof."




"Yes, when a fellow's soaked through, it's hard to be sensible, that's
"Wof, woof w woooof'w woooof wooooof, wf'w woof wf wf woooooof, woof'w

a fact. And I am about drenched with this spray. Never mind; catch the
w woof. Wof W wf wooof woooooof woof woof wooof. Wooof woof; wooof wof

turn there, and pass it. Seems to me we are lashing down these anchors
woof wooof, wof woof wf. Wooof wf wf wf wof wooooof woof wooof wooooof

now as if they were never going to be used again. Tying these two
wof wf wf woof woof wooof wooof wf wf woof wooof. Wooof wooof wof

anchors here, Flask, seems like tying a man's hands behind him. And what
wooooof woof, Wooof, wooof woof wooof w wof'w wooof woooof wof. Wof woof

big generous hands they are, to be sure. These are your iron fists,
wof woooooof wooof woof wof, wf wf woof. Wooof wof woof woof wooof,

hey? What a hold they have, too! I wonder, Flask, whether the world is
wof? Woof w woof woof woof, wof! W woooof, Wooof, wooooof wof wooof wf

anchored anywhere; if she is, she swings with an uncommon long cable,
woooooof woooooof; wf wof wf, wof woooof woof wf woooooof woof wooof,

though. There, hammer that knot down, and we've done. So; next to
woooof. Wooof, woooof woof woof woof, wof wf'wf woof. Wf; woof wf

touching land, lighting on deck is the most satisfactory. I say, just
woooooof woof, woooooof wf woof wf wof woof woooooooooof. W wof, woof

wring out my jacket skirts, will ye? Thank ye. They laugh at long-togs
wooof wof wf woooof woooof, woof wf? Wooof wf. Woof wooof wf woof-woof

so, Flask; but seems to me, a Long tailed coat ought always to be worn
wf, Wooof; wof wooof wf wf, w Woof woooof woof wooof woooof wf wf woof

in all storms afloat. The tails tapering down that way, serve to carry
wf wof woooof woooof. Wof wooof woooooof woof woof wof, wooof wf wooof

off the water, d'ye see. Same with cocked hats; the cocks form gable-end
wof wof wooof, w'wf wof. Woof woof woooof woof; wof wooof woof wooof-wof

eave-troughs, Flask. No more monkey-jackets and tarpaulins for me; I
woof-wooooof, Wooof. Wf woof woooof-wooooof wof woooooooof wof wf; W

must mount a swallow-tail, and drive down a beaver; so. Halloa! whew!
woof wooof w wooooof-woof, wof wooof woof w woooof; wf. Woooof! woof!

there goes my tarpaulin overboard; Lord, Lord, that the winds that come
wooof woof wf wooooooof wooooooof; Woof, Woof, woof wof wooof woof woof

from heaven should be so unmannerly! This is a nasty night, lad."
woof woooof woooof wf wf woooooooof! Woof wf w wooof wooof, wof."










CHAPTER 122. Midnight Aloft.--Thunder and Lightning.
WOOOOOF wof. Woooooof Wooof.--Wooooof wof Wooooooof.







THE MAIN-TOP-SAIL YARD.--TASHTEGO PASSING NEW LASHINGS AROUND IT.
WOF WOOF-WOF-WOOF WOOF.--WOOOOOOF WOOOOOF WOF WOOOOOOF WOOOOF WF.







"Um, um, um. Stop that thunder! Plenty too much thunder up here. What's
"Wf, wf, wf. Woof woof wooooof! Woooof wof woof wooooof wf woof. Woof'w

the use of thunder? Um, um, um. We don't want thunder; we want rum; give
wof wof wf wooooof? Wf, wf, wf. Wf wof'w woof wooooof; wf woof wof; woof

us a glass of rum. Um, um, um!"
wf w wooof wf wof. Wf, wf, wf!"










CHAPTER 123. The Musket.
WOOOOOF wof. Wof Woooof.







During the most violent shocks of the Typhoon, the man at the Pequod's
Woooof wof woof wooooof woooof wf wof Wooooof, wof wof wf wof Woooof'w

jaw-bone tiller had several times been reelingly hurled to the deck by
wof-woof woooof wof wooooof wooof woof wooooooof woooof wf wof woof wf

its spasmodic motions, even though preventer tackles had been attached
wof wooooooof wooooof, woof woooof wooooooof wooooof wof woof woooooof

to it--for they were slack--because some play to the tiller was
wf wf--wof woof woof wooof--wooooof woof woof wf wof woooof wof

indispensable.
wooooooooooof.




In a severe gale like this, while the ship is but a tossed shuttlecock
Wf w woooof woof woof woof, wooof wof woof wf wof w woooof wooooooooof

to the blast, it is by no means uncommon to see the needles in the
wf wof wooof, wf wf wf wf wooof woooooof wf wof wof wooooof wf wof

compasses, at intervals, go round and round. It was thus with the
wooooooof, wf wooooooof, wf wooof wof wooof. Wf wof woof woof wof

Pequod's; at almost every shock the helmsman had not failed to notice
Woooof'w; wf woooof wooof wooof wof woooooof wof wof woooof wf woooof

the whirling velocity with which they revolved upon the cards; it is
wof woooooof woooooof woof wooof woof woooooof woof wof wooof; wf wf

a sight that hardly anyone can behold without some sort of unwonted
w wooof woof woooof woooof wof woooof wooooof woof woof wf woooooof

emotion.
wooooof.




Some hours after midnight, the Typhoon abated so much, that through the
Woof wooof wooof woooooof, wof Wooooof woooof wf woof, woof wooooof wof

strenuous exertions of Starbuck and Stubb--one engaged forward and the
wooooooof wooooooof wf Woooooof wof Wooof--wof wooooof wooooof wof wof

other aft--the shivered remnants of the jib and fore and main-top-sails
wooof wof--wof woooooof woooooof wf wof wof wof woof wof woof-wof-wooof

were cut adrift from the spars, and went eddying away to leeward, like
woof wof woooof woof wof wooof, wof woof wooooof woof wf wooooof, woof

the feathers of an albatross, which sometimes are cast to the winds when
wof woooooof wf wf wooooooof, wooof wooooooof wof woof wf wof wooof woof

that storm-tossed bird is on the wing.
woof wooof-woooof woof wf wf wof woof.




The three corresponding new sails were now bent and reefed, and a
Wof wooof wooooooooooof wof wooof woof wof woof wof woooof, wof w

storm-trysail was set further aft; so that the ship soon went through
wooof-wooooof wof wof wooooof wof; wf woof wof woof woof woof wooooof

the water with some precision again; and the course--for the present,
wof wooof woof woof wooooooof wooof; wof wof woooof--wof wof wooooof,

East-south-east--which he was to steer, if practicable, was once more
Woof-wooof-woof--wooof wf wof wf wooof, wf wooooooooof, wof woof woof

given to the helmsman. For during the violence of the gale, he had only
wooof wf wof woooooof. Wof woooof wof woooooof wf wof woof, wf wof woof

steered according to its vicissitudes. But as he was now bringing the
wooooof wooooooof wf wof woooooooooof. Wof wf wf wof wof woooooof wof

ship as near her course as possible, watching the compass meanwhile, lo!
woof wf woof wof woooof wf woooooof, woooooof wof wooooof wooooooof, wf!

a good sign! the wind seemed coming round astern; aye, the foul breeze
w woof woof! wof woof woooof woooof wooof woooof; wof, wof woof woooof

became fair!
woooof woof!




Instantly the yards were squared, to the lively song of "HO! THE
Wooooooof wof wooof woof wooooof, wf wof woooof woof wf "WF! WOF

FAIR WIND! OH-YE-HO, CHEERLY MEN!" the crew singing for joy, that so
WOOF WOOF! WF-WF-WF, WOOOOOF WOF!" wof woof wooooof wof wof, woof wf

promising an event should so soon have falsified the evil portents
wooooooof wf wooof woooof wf woof woof wooooooof wof woof woooooof

preceding it.
wooooooof wf.




In compliance with the standing order of his commander--to report
Wf woooooooof woof wof woooooof wooof wf wof wooooooof--wf woooof

immediately, and at any one of the twenty-four hours, any decided change
wooooooooof, wof wf wof wof wf wof woooof-woof wooof, wof wooooof woooof

in the affairs of the deck,--Starbuck had no sooner trimmed the yards to
wf wof wooooof wf wof woof,--Woooooof wof wf woooof wooooof wof wooof wf

the breeze--however reluctantly and gloomily,--than he mechanically went
wof woooof--wooooof wooooooooof wof woooooof,--woof wf woooooooooof woof

below to apprise Captain Ahab of the circumstance.
wooof wf wooooof Wooooof Woof wf wof woooooooooof.




Ere knocking at his state-room, he involuntarily paused before it
Wof woooooof wf wof wooof-woof, wf wooooooooooof woooof woooof wf

a moment. The cabin lamp--taking long swings this way and that--was
w woooof. Wof wooof woof--woooof woof woooof woof wof wof woof--wof

burning fitfully, and casting fitful shadows upon the old man's bolted
wooooof woooooof, wof wooooof woooof wooooof woof wof wof wof'w woooof

door,--a thin one, with fixed blinds inserted, in place of upper panels.
woof,--w woof wof, woof wooof woooof woooooof, wf wooof wf wooof woooof.

The isolated subterraneousness of the cabin made a certain humming
Wof woooooof wooooooooooooooof wf wof wooof woof w wooooof wooooof

silence to reign there, though it was hooped round by all the roar of
wooooof wf wooof wooof, woooof wf wof woooof wooof wf wof wof woof wf

the elements. The loaded muskets in the rack were shiningly revealed, as
wof woooooof. Wof woooof wooooof wf wof woof woof wooooooof woooooof, wf

they stood upright against the forward bulkhead. Starbuck was an honest,
woof wooof wooooof wooooof wof wooooof woooooof. Woooooof wof wf woooof,

upright man; but out of Starbuck's heart, at that instant when he saw
wooooof wof; wof wof wf Woooooof'w wooof, wf woof wooooof woof wf wof

the muskets, there strangely evolved an evil thought; but so blent with
wof wooooof, wooof wooooooof wooooof wf woof wooooof; wof wf wooof woof

its neutral or good accompaniments that for the instant he hardly knew
wof wooooof wf woof woooooooooooof woof wof wof wooooof wf woooof woof

it for itself.
wf wof woooof.




"He would have shot me once," he murmured, "yes, there's the very musket
"Wf wooof woof woof wf woof," wf woooooof, "wof, wooof'w wof woof woooof

that he pointed at me;--that one with the studded stock; let me touch
woof wf wooooof wf wf;--woof wof woof wof wooooof wooof; wof wf wooof

it--lift it. Strange, that I, who have handled so many deadly lances,
wf--woof wf. Wooooof, woof W, wof woof wooooof wf woof woooof woooof,

strange, that I should shake so now. Loaded? I must see. Aye, aye; and
wooooof, woof W woooof wooof wf wof. Woooof? W woof wof. Wof, wof; wof

powder in the pan;--that's not good. Best spill it?--wait. I'll cure
woooof wf wof wof;--woof'w wof woof. Woof wooof wf?--woof. W'wf woof

myself of this. I'll hold the musket boldly while I think.--I come
woooof wf woof. W'wf woof wof woooof woooof wooof W wooof.--W woof

to report a fair wind to him. But how fair? Fair for death and
wf woooof w woof woof wf wof. Wof wof woof? Woof wof wooof wof

doom,--THAT'S fair for Moby Dick. It's a fair wind that's only fair for
woof,--WOOF'W woof wof Woof Woof. Wf'w w woof woof woof'w woof woof wof

that accursed fish.--The very tube he pointed at me!--the very one;
woof woooooof woof.--Wof woof woof wf wooooof wf wf!--wof woof wof;

THIS one--I hold it here; he would have killed me with the very thing I
WOOF wof--W woof wf woof; wf wooof woof woooof wf woof wof woof wooof W

handle now.--Aye and he would fain kill all his crew. Does he not say
woooof wof.--Wof wof wf wooof woof woof wof wof woof. Woof wf wof wof

he will not strike his spars to any gale? Has he not dashed his heavenly
wf woof wof woooof wof wooof wf wof woof? Wof wf wof woooof wof woooooof

quadrant? and in these same perilous seas, gropes he not his way by mere
woooooof? wof wf wooof woof woooooof woof, woooof wf wof wof wof wf woof

dead reckoning of the error-abounding log? and in this very Typhoon, did
woof wooooooof wf wof wooof-wooooooof wof? wof wf woof woof Wooooof, wof

he not swear that he would have no lightning-rods? But shall this crazed
wf wof wooof woof wf wooof woof wf wooooooof-woof? Wof wooof woof woooof

old man be tamely suffered to drag a whole ship's company down to doom
wof wof wf woooof woooooof wf woof w wooof woof'w wooooof woof wf woof

with him?--Yes, it would make him the wilful murderer of thirty men and
woof wof?--Wof, wf wooof woof wof wof woooof woooooof wf woooof wof wof

more, if this ship come to any deadly harm; and come to deadly harm, my
woof, wf woof woof woof wf wof woooof woof; wof woof wf woooof woof, wf

soul swears this ship will, if Ahab have his way. If, then, he were this
woof woooof woof woof woof, wf Woof woof wof wof. Wf, woof, wf woof woof

instant--put aside, that crime would not be his. Ha! is he muttering in
wooooof--wof wooof, woof wooof wooof wof wf wof. Wf! wf wf wooooooof wf

his sleep? Yes, just there,--in there, he's sleeping. Sleeping? aye,
wof wooof? Wof, woof wooof,--wf wooof, wf'w woooooof. Woooooof? wof,

but still alive, and soon awake again. I can't withstand thee, then, old
wof wooof wooof, wof woof wooof wooof. W wof'w wooooooof woof, woof, wof

man. Not reasoning; not remonstrance; not entreaty wilt thou hearken to;
wof. Wof wooooooof; wof woooooooooof; wof woooooof woof woof wooooof wf;

all this thou scornest. Flat obedience to thy own flat commands, this is
wof woof woof woooooof. Woof wooooooof wf wof wof woof woooooof, woof wf

all thou breathest. Aye, and say'st the men have vow'd thy vow; say'st
wof woof wooooooof. Wof, wof wof'wf wof wof woof wof'w wof wof; wof'wf

all of us are Ahabs. Great God forbid!--But is there no other way? no
wof wf wf wof Wooof. Wooof Wof woooof!--Wof wf wooof wf wooof wof? wf

lawful way?--Make him a prisoner to be taken home? What! hope to wrest
woooof wof?--Woof wof w woooooof wf wf wooof woof? Woof! woof wf wooof

this old man's living power from his own living hands? Only a fool
woof wof wof'w woooof wooof woof wof wof woooof wooof? Woof w woof

would try it. Say he were pinioned even; knotted all over with ropes
wooof wof wf. Wof wf woof woooooof woof; wooooof wof woof woof wooof

and hawsers; chained down to ring-bolts on this cabin floor; he would
wof wooooof; wooooof woof wf woof-wooof wf woof wooof wooof; wf wooof

be more hideous than a caged tiger, then. I could not endure the
wf woof wooooof woof w wooof wooof, woof. W wooof wof woooof wof

sight; could not possibly fly his howlings; all comfort, sleep itself,
wooof; wooof wof woooooof wof wof woooooof; wof wooooof, wooof woooof,

inestimable reason would leave me on the long intolerable voyage. What,
wooooooooof woooof wooof wooof wf wf wof woof wooooooooof woooof. Woof,

then, remains? The land is hundreds of leagues away, and locked Japan
woof, wooooof? Wof woof wf woooooof wf wooooof woof, wof woooof Wooof

the nearest. I stand alone here upon an open sea, with two oceans and
wof wooooof. W wooof wooof woof woof wf woof wof, woof wof woooof wof

a whole continent between me and law.--Aye, aye, 'tis so.--Is heaven
w wooof wooooooof wooooof wf wof wof.--Wof, wof, 'wof wf.--Wf woooof

a murderer when its lightning strikes a would-be murderer in his bed,
w woooooof woof wof wooooooof wooooof w wooof-wf woooooof wf wof wof,

tindering sheets and skin together?--And would I be a murderer, then,
wooooooof woooof wof woof woooooof?--Wof wooof W wf w woooooof, woof,

if"--and slowly, stealthily, and half sideways looking, he placed the
wf"--wof woooof, woooooooof, wof woof woooooof wooooof, wf woooof wof

loaded musket's end against the door.
woooof woooof'w wof wooooof wof woof.




"On this level, Ahab's hammock swings within; his head this way. A
"Wf woof wooof, Woof'w wooooof woooof woooof; wof woof woof wof. W

touch, and Starbuck may survive to hug his wife and child again.--Oh
wooof, wof Woooooof wof wooooof wf wof wof woof wof wooof wooof.--Wf

Mary! Mary!--boy! boy! boy!--But if I wake thee not to death, old man,
Woof! Woof!--wof! wof! wof!--Wof wf W woof woof wof wf wooof, wof wof,

who can tell to what unsounded deeps Starbuck's body this day week
wof wof woof wf woof wooooooof wooof Woooooof'w woof woof wof woof

may sink, with all the crew! Great God, where art Thou? Shall I? shall
wof woof, woof wof wof woof! Wooof Wof, wooof wof Woof? Wooof W? wooof

I?--The wind has gone down and shifted, sir; the fore and main topsails
W?--Wof woof wof woof woof wof wooooof, wof; wof woof wof woof woooooof

are reefed and set; she heads her course."
wof woooof wof wof; wof wooof wof woooof."




"Stern all! Oh Moby Dick, I clutch thy heart at last!"
"Wooof wof! Wf Woof Woof, W woooof wof wooof wf woof!"




Such were the sounds that now came hurtling from out the old man's
Woof woof wof woooof woof wof woof woooooof woof wof wof wof wof'w

tormented sleep, as if Starbuck's voice had caused the long dumb dream
wooooooof wooof, wf wf Woooooof'w wooof wof woooof wof woof woof wooof

to speak.
wf wooof.




The yet levelled musket shook like a drunkard's arm against the panel;
Wof wof woooooof woooof wooof woof w woooooof'w wof wooooof wof wooof;

Starbuck seemed wrestling with an angel; but turning from the door, he
Woooooof woooof wooooooof woof wf wooof; wof wooooof woof wof woof, wf

placed the death-tube in its rack, and left the place.
woooof wof wooof-woof wf wof woof, wof woof wof wooof.




"He's too sound asleep, Mr. Stubb; go thou down, and wake him, and tell
"Wf'w wof wooof woooof, Wf. Wooof; wf woof woof, wof woof wof, wof woof

him. I must see to the deck here. Thou know'st what to say."
wof. W woof wof wf wof woof woof. Woof woof'wf woof wf wof."










CHAPTER 124. The Needle.
WOOOOOF wof. Wof Woooof.







Next morning the not-yet-subsided sea rolled in long slow billows of
Woof wooooof wof wof-wof-woooooof wof woooof wf woof woof wooooof wf

mighty bulk, and striving in the Pequod's gurgling track, pushed her on
woooof woof, wof woooooof wf wof Woooof'w woooooof wooof, woooof wof wf

like giants' palms outspread. The strong, unstaggering breeze abounded
woof woooof' wooof wooooooof. Wof woooof, woooooooooof woooof woooooof

so, that sky and air seemed vast outbellying sails; the whole world
wf, woof wof wof wof woooof woof wooooooooof wooof; wof wooof wooof

boomed before the wind. Muffled in the full morning light, the invisible
woooof woooof wof woof. Wooooof wf wof woof wooooof wooof, wof wooooooof

sun was only known by the spread intensity of his place; where his
wof wof woof wooof wf wof woooof wooooooof wf wof wooof; wooof wof

bayonet rays moved on in stacks. Emblazonings, as of crowned Babylonian
wooooof woof wooof wf wf woooof. Woooooooooof, wf wf wooooof Woooooooof

kings and queens, reigned over everything. The sea was as a crucible of
wooof wof woooof, wooooof woof woooooooof. Wof wof wof wf w woooooof wf

molten gold, that bubblingly leaps with light and heat.
woooof woof, woof woooooooof wooof woof wooof wof woof.




Long maintaining an enchanted silence, Ahab stood apart; and every time
Woof wooooooooof wf wooooooof wooooof, Woof wooof wooof; wof wooof woof

the tetering ship loweringly pitched down her bowsprit, he turned to eye
wof woooooof woof woooooooof wooooof woof wof woooooof, wf woooof wf wof

the bright sun's rays produced ahead; and when she profoundly settled by
wof woooof wof'w woof woooooof wooof; wof woof wof woooooooof wooooof wf

the stern, he turned behind, and saw the sun's rearward place, and how
wof wooof, wf woooof woooof, wof wof wof wof'w woooooof wooof, wof wof

the same yellow rays were blending with his undeviating wake.
wof woof woooof woof woof woooooof woof wof wooooooooof woof.




"Ha, ha, my ship! thou mightest well be taken now for the sea-chariot of
"Wf, wf, wf woof! woof woooooof woof wf wooof wof wof wof wof-wooooof wf

the sun. Ho, ho! all ye nations before my prow, I bring the sun to ye!
wof wof. Wf, wf! wof wf wooooof woooof wf woof, W wooof wof wof wf wf!

Yoke on the further billows; hallo! a tandem, I drive the sea!"
Woof wf wof wooooof wooooof; wooof! w woooof, W wooof wof wof!"




But suddenly reined back by some counter thought, he hurried towards the
Wof woooooof woooof woof wf woof wooooof wooooof, wf wooooof wooooof wof

helm, huskily demanding how the ship was heading.
woof, wooooof wooooooof wof wof woof wof wooooof.




"East-sou-east, sir," said the frightened steersman.
"Woof-wof-woof, wof," woof wof woooooooof wooooooof.




"Thou liest!" smiting him with his clenched fist. "Heading East at this
"Woof wooof!" wooooof wof woof wof woooooof woof. "Wooooof Woof wf woof

hour in the morning, and the sun astern?"
woof wf wof wooooof, wof wof wof woooof?"




Upon this every soul was confounded; for the phenomenon just then
Woof woof wooof woof wof woooooooof; wof wof woooooooof woof woof

observed by Ahab had unaccountably escaped every one else; but its very
woooooof wf Woof wof wooooooooooof wooooof wooof wof woof; wof wof woof

blinding palpableness must have been the cause.
woooooof woooooooooof woof woof woof wof wooof.




Thrusting his head half way into the binnacle, Ahab caught one glimpse
Wooooooof wof woof woof wof woof wof woooooof, Woof woooof wof wooooof

of the compasses; his uplifted arm slowly fell; for a moment he almost
wf wof wooooooof; wof woooooof wof woooof woof; wof w woooof wf woooof

seemed to stagger. Standing behind him Starbuck looked, and lo! the two
woooof wf wooooof. Woooooof woooof wof Woooooof woooof, wof wf! wof wof

compasses pointed East, and the Pequod was as infallibly going West.
wooooooof wooooof Woof, wof wof Woooof wof wf woooooooof wooof Woof.




But ere the first wild alarm could get out abroad among the crew,
Wof wof wof wooof woof wooof wooof wof wof woooof wooof wof woof,

the old man with a rigid laugh exclaimed, "I have it! It has happened
wof wof wof woof w wooof wooof wooooooof, "W woof wf! Wf wof woooooof

before. Mr. Starbuck, last night's thunder turned our compasses--that's
woooof. Wf. Woooooof, woof wooof'w wooooof woooof wof wooooooof--woof'w

all. Thou hast before now heard of such a thing, I take it."
wof. Woof woof woooof wof wooof wf woof w wooof, W woof wf."




"Aye; but never before has it happened to me, sir," said the pale mate,
"Wof; wof wooof woooof wof wf woooooof wf wf, wof," woof wof woof woof,

gloomily.
woooooof.




Here, it must needs be said, that accidents like this have in more than
Woof, wf woof wooof wf woof, woof wooooooof woof woof woof wf woof woof

one case occurred to ships in violent storms. The magnetic energy, as
wof woof woooooof wf wooof wf wooooof woooof. Wof woooooof woooof, wf

developed in the mariner's needle, is, as all know, essentially one with
wooooooof wf wof wooooof'w woooof, wf, wf wof woof, wooooooooof wof woof

the electricity beheld in heaven; hence it is not to be much marvelled
wof wooooooooof woooof wf woooof; wooof wf wf wof wf wf woof wooooooof

at, that such things should be. Instances where the lightning has
wf, woof woof woooof woooof wf. Wooooooof wooof wof wooooooof wof

actually struck the vessel, so as to smite down some of the spars and
woooooof woooof wof woooof, wf wf wf wooof woof woof wf wof wooof wof

rigging, the effect upon the needle has at times been still more fatal;
wooooof, wof woooof woof wof woooof wof wf wooof woof wooof woof wooof;

all its loadstone virtue being annihilated, so that the before magnetic
wof wof wooooooof woooof wooof wooooooooof, wf woof wof woooof woooooof

steel was of no more use than an old wife's knitting needle. But in
wooof wof wf wf woof wof woof wf wof woof'w woooooof woooof. Wof wf

either case, the needle never again, of itself, recovers the original
woooof woof, wof woooof wooof wooof, wf woooof, woooooof wof woooooof

virtue thus marred or lost; and if the binnacle compasses be affected,
woooof woof woooof wf woof; wof wf wof woooooof wooooooof wf woooooof,

the same fate reaches all the others that may be in the ship; even were
wof woof woof wooooof wof wof woooof woof wof wf wf wof woof; woof woof

the lowermost one inserted into the kelson.
wof wooooooof wof woooooof woof wof woooof.




Deliberately standing before the binnacle, and eyeing the transpointed
Woooooooooof woooooof woooof wof woooooof, wof woooof wof woooooooooof

compasses, the old man, with the sharp of his extended hand, now took
wooooooof, wof wof wof, woof wof wooof wf wof woooooof woof, wof woof

the precise bearing of the sun, and satisfied that the needles were
wof wooooof wooooof wf wof wof, wof wooooooof woof wof wooooof woof

exactly inverted, shouted out his orders for the ship's course to be
wooooof woooooof, wooooof wof wof woooof wof wof woof'w woooof wf wf

changed accordingly. The yards were hard up; and once more the Pequod
wooooof wooooooooof. Wof wooof woof woof wf; wof woof woof wof Woooof

thrust her undaunted bows into the opposing wind, for the supposed fair
woooof wof wooooooof woof woof wof woooooof woof, wof wof woooooof woof

one had only been juggling her.
wof wof woof woof woooooof wof.




Meanwhile, whatever were his own secret thoughts, Starbuck said nothing,
Wooooooof, woooooof woof wof wof woooof woooooof, Woooooof woof wooooof,

but quietly he issued all requisite orders; while Stubb and Flask--who
wof wooooof wf woooof wof wooooooof woooof; wooof Wooof wof Wooof--wof

in some small degree seemed then to be sharing his feelings--likewise
wf woof wooof woooof woooof woof wf wf wooooof wof woooooof--woooooof

unmurmuringly acquiesced. As for the men, though some of them lowly
wooooooooooof woooooooof. Wf wof wof wof, woooof woof wf woof wooof

rumbled, their fear of Ahab was greater than their fear of Fate. But as
wooooof, wooof woof wf Woof wof wooooof woof wooof woof wf Woof. Wof wf

ever before, the pagan harpooneers remained almost wholly unimpressed;
woof woooof, wof wooof wooooooooof woooooof woooof woooof wooooooooof;

or if impressed, it was only with a certain magnetism shot into their
wf wf wooooooof, wf wof woof woof w wooooof wooooooof woof woof wooof

congenial hearts from inflexible Ahab's.
wooooooof woooof woof woooooooof Woof'w.




For a space the old man walked the deck in rolling reveries. But
Wof w wooof wof wof wof woooof wof woof wf wooooof woooooof. Wof

chancing to slip with his ivory heel, he saw the crushed copper
woooooof wf woof woof wof wooof woof, wf wof wof wooooof woooof

sight-tubes of the quadrant he had the day before dashed to the deck.
wooof-wooof wf wof woooooof wf wof wof wof woooof woooof wf wof woof.




"Thou poor, proud heaven-gazer and sun's pilot! yesterday I wrecked
"Woof woof, wooof woooof-wooof wof wof'w wooof! wooooooof W wooooof

thee, and to-day the compasses would fain have wrecked me. So, so. But
woof, wof wf-wof wof wooooooof wooof woof woof wooooof wf. Wf, wf. Wof

Ahab is lord over the level loadstone yet. Mr. Starbuck--a lance without
Woof wf woof woof wof wooof wooooooof wof. Wf. Woooooof--w wooof wooooof

a pole; a top-maul, and the smallest of the sail-maker's needles.
w woof; w wof-woof, wof wof woooooof wf wof woof-wooof'w wooooof.

Quick!"
Wooof!"




Accessory, perhaps, to the impulse dictating the thing he was now about
Wooooooof, wooooof, wf wof wooooof wooooooof wof wooof wf wof wof wooof

to do, were certain prudential motives, whose object might have been to
wf wf, woof wooooof woooooooof wooooof, wooof woooof wooof woof woof wf

revive the spirits of his crew by a stroke of his subtile skill, in a
woooof wof wooooof wf wof woof wf w woooof wf wof wooooof wooof, wf w

matter so wondrous as that of the inverted compasses. Besides, the old
woooof wf woooooof wf woof wf wof woooooof wooooooof. Wooooof, wof wof

man well knew that to steer by transpointed needles, though clumsily
wof woof woof woof wf wooof wf woooooooooof wooooof, woooof woooooof

practicable, was not a thing to be passed over by superstitious sailors,
wooooooooof, wof wof w wooof wf wf woooof woof wf wooooooooooof wooooof,

without some shudderings and evil portents.
wooooof woof wooooooooof wof woof woooooof.




"Men," said he, steadily turning upon the crew, as the mate handed
"Wof," woof wf, woooooof wooooof woof wof woof, wf wof woof woooof

him the things he had demanded, "my men, the thunder turned old Ahab's
wof wof woooof wf wof woooooof, "wf wof, wof wooooof woooof wof Woof'w

needles; but out of this bit of steel Ahab can make one of his own, that
wooooof; wof wof wf woof wof wf wooof Woof wof woof wof wf wof wof, woof

will point as true as any."
woof wooof wf woof wf wof."




Abashed glances of servile wonder were exchanged by the sailors, as this
Wooooof wooooof wf wooooof woooof woof wooooooof wf wof wooooof, wf woof

was said; and with fascinated eyes they awaited whatever magic might
wof woof; wof woof woooooooof woof woof wooooof woooooof wooof wooof

follow. But Starbuck looked away.
woooof. Wof Woooooof woooof woof.




With a blow from the top-maul Ahab knocked off the steel head of the
Woof w woof woof wof wof-woof Woof wooooof wof wof wooof woof wf wof

lance, and then handing to the mate the long iron rod remaining, bade
wooof, wof woof wooooof wf wof woof wof woof woof wof wooooooof, woof

him hold it upright, without its touching the deck. Then, with the maul,
wof woof wf wooooof, wooooof wof woooooof wof woof. Woof, woof wof woof,

after repeatedly smiting the upper end of this iron rod, he placed the
wooof woooooooof wooooof wof wooof wof wf woof woof wof, wf woooof wof

blunted needle endwise on the top of it, and less strongly hammered
wooooof woooof wooooof wf wof wof wf wf, wof woof woooooof woooooof

that, several times, the mate still holding the rod as before. Then
woof, wooooof wooof, wof woof wooof wooooof wof wof wf woooof. Woof

going through some small strange motions with it--whether indispensable
wooof wooooof woof wooof wooooof wooooof woof wf--wooooof wooooooooooof

to the magnetizing of the steel, or merely intended to augment the awe
wf wof wooooooooof wf wof wooof, wf woooof woooooof wf wooooof wof wof

of the crew, is uncertain--he called for linen thread; and moving to the
wf wof woof, wf wooooooof--wf woooof wof wooof woooof; wof woooof wf wof

binnacle, slipped out the two reversed needles there, and horizontally
woooooof, wooooof wof wof wof woooooof wooooof wooof, wof woooooooooof

suspended the sail-needle by its middle, over one of the compass-cards.
wooooooof wof woof-woooof wf wof woooof, woof wof wf wof wooooof-wooof.

At first, the steel went round and round, quivering and vibrating at
Wf wooof, wof wooof woof wooof wof wooof, wooooooof wof wooooooof wf

either end; but at last it settled to its place, when Ahab, who had
woooof wof; wof wf woof wf wooooof wf wof wooof, woof Woof, wof wof

been intently watching for this result, stepped frankly back from the
woof woooooof woooooof wof woof woooof, wooooof wooooof woof woof wof

binnacle, and pointing his stretched arm towards it, exclaimed,--"Look
woooooof, wof woooooof wof wooooooof wof wooooof wf, wooooooof,--"Woof

ye, for yourselves, if Ahab be not lord of the level loadstone! The sun
wf, wof woooooooof, wf Woof wf wof woof wf wof wooof wooooooof! Wof wof

is East, and that compass swears it!"
wf Woof, wof woof wooooof woooof wf!"




One after another they peered in, for nothing but their own eyes could
Wof wooof wooooof woof woooof wf, wof wooooof wof wooof wof woof wooof

persuade such ignorance as theirs, and one after another they slunk
woooooof woof wooooooof wf woooof, wof wof wooof wooooof woof wooof

away.
woof.




In his fiery eyes of scorn and triumph, you then saw Ahab in all his
Wf wof wooof woof wf wooof wof wooooof, wof woof wof Woof wf wof wof

fatal pride.
wooof wooof.










CHAPTER 125. The Log and Line.
WOOOOOF wof. Wof Wof wof Woof.







While now the fated Pequod had been so long afloat this voyage, the log
Wooof wof wof wooof Woooof wof woof wf woof woooof woof woooof, wof wof

and line had but very seldom been in use. Owing to a confident reliance
wof woof wof wof woof woooof woof wf wof. Wooof wf w wooooooof woooooof

upon other means of determining the vessel's place, some merchantmen,
woof wooof wooof wf wooooooooof wof woooof'w wooof, woof wooooooooof,

and many whalemen, especially when cruising, wholly neglect to heave the
wof woof woooooof, woooooooof woof woooooof, woooof wooooof wf wooof wof

log; though at the same time, and frequently more for form's sake than
wof; woooof wf wof woof woof, wof woooooooof woof wof woof'w woof woof

anything else, regularly putting down upon the customary slate the
woooooof woof, wooooooof wooooof woof woof wof wooooooof wooof wof

course steered by the ship, as well as the presumed average rate of
woooof wooooof wf wof woof, wf woof wf wof woooooof wooooof woof wf

progression every hour. It had been thus with the Pequod. The wooden
wooooooooof wooof woof. Wf wof woof woof woof wof Woooof. Wof woooof

reel and angular log attached hung, long untouched, just beneath the
woof wof wooooof wof woooooof woof, woof wooooooof, woof wooooof wof

railing of the after bulwarks. Rains and spray had damped it; sun and
wooooof wf wof wooof woooooof. Wooof wof wooof wof woooof wf; wof wof

wind had warped it; all the elements had combined to rot a thing that
woof wof woooof wf; wof wof woooooof wof woooooof wf wof w wooof woof

hung so idly. But heedless of all this, his mood seized Ahab, as he
woof wf woof. Wof woooooof wf wof woof, wof woof woooof Woof, wf wf

happened to glance upon the reel, not many hours after the magnet scene,
woooooof wf woooof woof wof woof, wof woof wooof wooof wof woooof wooof,

and he remembered how his quadrant was no more, and recalled his frantic
wof wf woooooooof wof wof woooooof wof wf woof, wof woooooof wof wooooof

oath about the level log and line. The ship was sailing plungingly;
woof wooof wof wooof wof wof woof. Wof woof wof wooooof woooooooof;

astern the billows rolled in riots.
woooof wof wooooof woooof wf wooof.




"Forward, there! Heave the log!"
"Wooooof, wooof! Wooof wof wof!"




Two seamen came. The golden-hued Tahitian and the grizzly Manxman. "Take
Wof woooof woof. Wof woooof-woof Woooooof wof wof wooooof Wooooof. "Woof

the reel, one of ye, I'll heave."
wof woof, wof wf wf, W'wf wooof."




They went towards the extreme stern, on the ship's lee side, where the
Woof woof wooooof wof wooooof wooof, wf wof woof'w wof woof, wooof wof

deck, with the oblique energy of the wind, was now almost dipping into
woof, woof wof wooooof woooof wf wof woof, wof wof woooof wooooof woof

the creamy, sidelong-rushing sea.
wof woooof, woooooof-wooooof wof.




The Manxman took the reel, and holding it high up, by the projecting
Wof Wooooof woof wof woof, wof wooooof wf woof wf, wf wof woooooooof

handle-ends of the spindle, round which the spool of line revolved, so
woooof-woof wf wof wooooof, wooof wooof wof wooof wf woof woooooof, wf

stood with the angular log hanging downwards, till Ahab advanced to him.
wooof woof wof wooooof wof wooooof wooooooof, woof Woof woooooof wf wof.




Ahab stood before him, and was lightly unwinding some thirty or forty
Woof wooof woooof wof, wof wof wooooof wooooooof woof woooof wf wooof

turns to form a preliminary hand-coil to toss overboard, when the old
wooof wf woof w wooooooooof woof-woof wf woof wooooooof, woof wof wof

Manxman, who was intently eyeing both him and the line, made bold to
Wooooof, wof wof woooooof woooof woof wof wof wof woof, woof woof wf

speak.
wooof.




"Sir, I mistrust it; this line looks far gone, long heat and wet have
"Wof, W woooooof wf; woof woof wooof wof woof, woof woof wof wof woof

spoiled it."
wooooof wf."




"'Twill hold, old gentleman. Long heat and wet, have they spoiled thee?
"'Wooof woof, wof wooooooof. Woof woof wof wof, woof woof wooooof woof?

Thou seem'st to hold. Or, truer perhaps, life holds thee; not thou it."
Woof woof'wf wf woof. Wf, wooof wooooof, woof wooof woof; wof woof wf."




"I hold the spool, sir. But just as my captain says. With these
"W woof wof wooof, wof. Wof woof wf wf wooooof woof. Woof wooof

grey hairs of mine 'tis not worth while disputing, 'specially with a
woof wooof wf woof 'wof wof wooof wooof wooooooof, 'wooooooof woof w

superior, who'll ne'er confess."
woooooof, wof'wf wf'wf wooooof."




"What's that? There now's a patched professor in Queen Nature's
"Woof'w woof? Wooof wof'w w wooooof wooooooof wf Wooof Woooof'w

granite-founded College; but methinks he's too subservient. Where wert
wooooof-wooooof Wooooof; wof woooooof wf'w wof wooooooooof. Wooof woof

thou born?"
woof woof?"




"In the little rocky Isle of Man, sir."
"Wf wof woooof wooof Woof wf Wof, wof."




"Excellent! Thou'st hit the world by that."
"Wooooooof! Woof'wf wof wof wooof wf woof."




"I know not, sir, but I was born there."
"W woof wof, wof, wof W wof woof wooof."




"In the Isle of Man, hey? Well, the other way, it's good. Here's a man
"Wf wof Woof wf Wof, wof? Woof, wof wooof wof, wf'w woof. Woof'w w wof

from Man; a man born in once independent Man, and now unmanned of Man;
woof Wof; w wof woof wf woof wooooooooof Wof, wof wof woooooof wf Wof;

which is sucked in--by what? Up with the reel! The dead, blind wall
wooof wf woooof wf--wf woof? Wf woof wof woof! Wof woof, wooof woof

butts all inquiring heads at last. Up with it! So."
wooof wof wooooooof wooof wf woof. Wf woof wf! Wf."




The log was heaved. The loose coils rapidly straightened out in a long
Wof wof wof woooof. Wof wooof wooof wooooof woooooooooof wof wf w woof

dragging line astern, and then, instantly, the reel began to whirl. In
woooooof woof woooof, wof woof, wooooooof, wof woof wooof wf wooof. Wf

turn, jerkingly raised and lowered by the rolling billows, the towing
woof, wooooooof woooof wof wooooof wf wof wooooof wooooof, wof woooof

resistance of the log caused the old reelman to stagger strangely.
woooooooof wf wof wof woooof wof wof wooooof wf wooooof wooooooof.




"Hold hard!"
"Woof woof!"




Snap! the overstrained line sagged down in one long festoon; the tugging
Woof! wof woooooooooof woof woooof woof wf wof woof wooooof; wof wooooof

log was gone.
wof wof woof.




"I crush the quadrant, the thunder turns the needles, and now the mad
"W wooof wof woooooof, wof wooooof wooof wof wooooof, wof wof wof wof

sea parts the log-line. But Ahab can mend all. Haul in here, Tahitian;
wof wooof wof wof-woof. Wof Woof wof woof wof. Woof wf woof, Woooooof;

reel up, Manxman. And look ye, let the carpenter make another log, and
woof wf, Wooooof. Wof woof wf, wof wof wooooooof woof wooooof wof, wof

mend thou the line. See to it."
woof woof wof woof. Wof wf wf."




"There he goes now; to him nothing's happened; but to me, the skewer
"Wooof wf woof wof; wf wof wooooof'w woooooof; wof wf wf, wof woooof

seems loosening out of the middle of the world. Haul in, haul in,
wooof wooooooof wof wf wof woooof wf wof wooof. Woof wf, woof wf,

Tahitian! These lines run whole, and whirling out: come in broken, and
Woooooof! Wooof wooof wof wooof, wof woooooof wof: woof wf woooof, wof

dragging slow. Ha, Pip? come to help; eh, Pip?"
woooooof woof. Wf, Wof? woof wf woof; wf, Wof?"




"Pip? whom call ye Pip? Pip jumped from the whale-boat. Pip's missing.
"Wof? woof woof wf Wof? Wof woooof woof wof wooof-woof. Wof'w wooooof.

Let's see now if ye haven't fished him up here, fisherman. It drags
Wof'w wof wof wf wf wooof'w woooof wof wf woof, wooooooof. Wf wooof

hard; I guess he's holding on. Jerk him, Tahiti! Jerk him off; we haul
woof; W wooof wf'w wooooof wf. Woof wof, Woooof! Woof wof wof; wf woof

in no cowards here. Ho! there's his arm just breaking water. A hatchet!
wf wf wooooof woof. Wf! wooof'w wof wof woof woooooof wooof. W wooooof!

a hatchet! cut it off--we haul in no cowards here. Captain Ahab! sir,
w wooooof! wof wf wof--wf woof wf wf wooooof woof. Wooooof Woof! wof,

sir! here's Pip, trying to get on board again."
wof! woof'w Wof, woooof wf wof wf wooof wooof."




"Peace, thou crazy loon," cried the Manxman, seizing him by the arm.
"Wooof, woof wooof woof," wooof wof Wooooof, wooooof wof wf wof wof.

"Away from the quarter-deck!"
"Woof woof wof wooooof-woof!"




"The greater idiot ever scolds the lesser," muttered Ahab, advancing.
"Wof wooooof wooof woof woooof wof woooof," woooooof Woof, wooooooof.

"Hands off from that holiness! Where sayest thou Pip was, boy?
"Wooof wof woof woof woooooof! Wooof woooof woof Wof wof, wof?




"Astern there, sir, astern! Lo! lo!"
"Woooof wooof, wof, woooof! Wf! wf!"




"And who art thou, boy? I see not my reflection in the vacant pupils of
"Wof wof wof woof, wof? W wof wof wf woooooooof wf wof woooof woooof wf

thy eyes. Oh God! that man should be a thing for immortal souls to sieve
wof woof. Wf Wof! woof wof woooof wf w wooof wof woooooof wooof wf wooof

through! Who art thou, boy?"
wooooof! Wof wof woof, wof?"




"Bell-boy, sir; ship's-crier; ding, dong, ding! Pip! Pip! Pip!
"Woof-wof, wof; woof'w-wooof; woof, woof, woof! Wof! Wof! Wof!

One hundred pounds of clay reward for Pip; five feet high--looks
Wof wooooof woooof wf woof woooof wof Wof; woof woof woof--wooof

cowardly--quickest known by that! Ding, dong, ding! Who's seen Pip the
woooooof--woooooof wooof wf woof! Woof, woof, woof! Wof'w woof Wof wof

coward?"
woooof?"




"There can be no hearts above the snow-line. Oh, ye frozen heavens! look
"Wooof wof wf wf woooof wooof wof woof-woof. Wf, wf woooof wooooof! woof

down here. Ye did beget this luckless child, and have abandoned him,
woof woof. Wf wof wooof woof woooooof wooof, wof woof wooooooof wof,

ye creative libertines. Here, boy; Ahab's cabin shall be Pip's home
wf woooooof woooooooof. Woof, wof; Woof'w wooof wooof wf Wof'w woof

henceforth, while Ahab lives. Thou touchest my inmost centre, boy; thou
woooooooof, wooof Woof wooof. Woof woooooof wf woooof woooof, wof; woof

art tied to me by cords woven of my heart-strings. Come, let's down."
wof woof wf wf wf wooof wooof wf wf wooof-wooooof. Woof, wof'w woof."




"What's this? here's velvet shark-skin," intently gazing at Ahab's hand,
"Woof'w woof? woof'w woooof wooof-woof," woooooof woooof wf Woof'w woof,

and feeling it. "Ah, now, had poor Pip but felt so kind a thing as this,
wof wooooof wf. "Wf, wof, wof woof Wof wof woof wf woof w wooof wf woof,

perhaps he had ne'er been lost! This seems to me, sir, as a man-rope;
wooooof wf wof wf'wf woof woof! Woof wooof wf wf, wof, wf w wof-woof;

something that weak souls may hold by. Oh, sir, let old Perth now come
wooooooof woof woof wooof wof woof wf. Wf, wof, wof wof Wooof wof woof

and rivet these two hands together; the black one with the white, for I
wof wooof wooof wof wooof woooooof; wof wooof wof woof wof wooof, wof W

will not let this go."
woof wof wof woof wf."




"Oh, boy, nor will I thee, unless I should thereby drag thee to worse
"Wf, wof, wof woof W woof, woooof W woooof wooooof woof woof wf wooof

horrors than are here. Come, then, to my cabin. Lo! ye believers in
wooooof woof wof woof. Woof, woof, wf wf wooof. Wf! wf wooooooof wf

gods all goodness, and in man all ill, lo you! see the omniscient gods
woof wof woooooof, wof wf wof wof wof, wf wof! wof wof woooooooof woof

oblivious of suffering man; and man, though idiotic, and knowing not
wooooooof wf wooooooof wof; wof wof, woooof wooooof, wof wooooof wof

what he does, yet full of the sweet things of love and gratitude. Come!
woof wf woof, wof woof wf wof wooof woooof wf woof wof wooooooof. Woof!

I feel prouder leading thee by thy black hand, than though I grasped an
W woof wooooof wooooof woof wf wof wooof woof, woof woooof W wooooof wf

Emperor's!"
Wooooof'w!"




"There go two daft ones now," muttered the old Manxman. "One daft with
"Wooof wf wof woof woof wof," woooooof wof wof Wooooof. "Wof woof woof

strength, the other daft with weakness. But here's the end of the rotten
woooooof, wof wooof woof woof woooooof. Wof woof'w wof wof wf wof woooof

line--all dripping, too. Mend it, eh? I think we had best have a new
woof--wof woooooof, wof. Woof wf, wf? W wooof wf wof woof woof w wof

line altogether. I'll see Mr. Stubb about it."
woof woooooooof. W'wf wof Wf. Wooof wooof wf."










CHAPTER 126. The Life-Buoy.
WOOOOOF wof. Wof Woof-Woof.







Steering now south-eastward by Ahab's levelled steel, and her progress
Woooooof wof wooof-woooooof wf Woof'w woooooof wooof, wof wof woooooof

solely determined by Ahab's level log and line; the Pequod held on
woooof woooooooof wf Woof'w wooof wof wof woof; wof Woooof woof wf

her path towards the Equator. Making so long a passage through such
wof woof wooooof wof Wooooof. Woooof wf woof w wooooof wooooof woof

unfrequented waters, descrying no ships, and ere long, sideways impelled
woooooooooof woooof, wooooooof wf wooof, wof wof woof, woooooof woooooof

by unvarying trade winds, over waves monotonously mild; all these seemed
wf wooooooof wooof wooof, woof wooof woooooooooof woof; wof wooof woooof

the strange calm things preluding some riotous and desperate scene.
wof wooooof woof woooof wooooooof woof wooooof wof wooooooof wooof.




At last, when the ship drew near to the outskirts, as it were, of the
Wf woof, woof wof woof woof woof wf wof wooooooof, wf wf woof, wf wof

Equatorial fishing-ground, and in the deep darkness that goes before the
Woooooooof wooooof-woooof, wof wf wof woof woooooof woof woof woooof wof

dawn, was sailing by a cluster of rocky islets; the watch--then headed
woof, wof wooooof wf w wooooof wf wooof woooof; wof wooof--woof woooof

by Flask--was startled by a cry so plaintively wild and unearthly--like
wf Wooof--wof woooooof wf w wof wf wooooooooof woof wof wooooooof--woof

half-articulated wailings of the ghosts of all Herod's murdered
woof-wooooooooof woooooof wf wof woooof wf wof Wooof'w woooooof

Innocents--that one and all, they started from their reveries, and for
Wooooooof--woof wof wof wof, woof wooooof woof wooof woooooof, wof wof

the space of some moments stood, or sat, or leaned all transfixedly
wof wooof wf woof wooooof wooof, wf wof, wf woooof wof woooooooooof

listening, like the carved Roman slave, while that wild cry remained
wooooooof, woof wof woooof Wooof wooof, wooof woof woof wof woooooof

within hearing. The Christian or civilized part of the crew said it was
woooof wooooof. Wof Wooooooof wf wooooooof woof wf wof woof woof wf wof

mermaids, and shuddered; but the pagan harpooneers remained unappalled.
woooooof, wof wooooooof; wof wof wooof wooooooooof woooooof woooooooof.

Yet the grey Manxman--the oldest mariner of all--declared that the wild
Wof wof woof Wooooof--wof woooof wooooof wf wof--woooooof woof wof woof

thrilling sounds that were heard, were the voices of newly drowned men
wooooooof woooof woof woof wooof, woof wof woooof wf wooof wooooof wof

in the sea.
wf wof wof.




Below in his hammock, Ahab did not hear of this till grey dawn, when
Wooof wf wof wooooof, Woof wof wof woof wf woof woof woof woof, woof

he came to the deck; it was then recounted to him by Flask, not
wf woof wf wof woof; wf wof woof wooooooof wf wof wf Wooof, wof

unaccompanied with hinted dark meanings. He hollowly laughed, and thus
wooooooooooof woof woooof woof woooooof. Wf woooooof wooooof, wof woof

explained the wonder.
wooooooof wof woooof.




Those rocky islands the ship had passed were the resort of great numbers
Wooof wooof wooooof wof woof wof woooof woof wof woooof wf wooof wooooof

of seals, and some young seals that had lost their dams, or some dams
wf wooof, wof woof wooof wooof woof wof woof wooof woof, wf woof woof

that had lost their cubs, must have risen nigh the ship and kept company
woof wof woof wooof woof, woof woof wooof woof wof woof wof woof wooooof

with her, crying and sobbing with their human sort of wail. But this
woof wof, woooof wof wooooof woof wooof wooof woof wf woof. Wof woof

only the more affected some of them, because most mariners cherish a
woof wof woof woooooof woof wf woof, wooooof woof woooooof wooooof w

very superstitious feeling about seals, arising not only from their
woof wooooooooooof wooooof wooof wooof, wooooof wof woof woof wooof

peculiar tones when in distress, but also from the human look of their
woooooof wooof woof wf woooooof, wof woof woof wof wooof woof wf wooof

round heads and semi-intelligent faces, seen peeringly uprising from
wooof wooof wof woof-wooooooooof wooof, woof wooooooof woooooof woof

the water alongside. In the sea, under certain circumstances, seals have
wof wooof wooooooof. Wf wof wof, wooof wooooof wooooooooooof, wooof woof

more than once been mistaken for men.
woof woof woof woof woooooof wof wof.




But the bodings of the crew were destined to receive a most plausible
Wof wof wooooof wf wof woof woof woooooof wf wooooof w woof wooooooof

confirmation in the fate of one of their number that morning. At
woooooooooof wf wof woof wf wof wf wooof woooof woof wooooof. Wf

sun-rise this man went from his hammock to his mast-head at the fore;
wof-woof woof wof woof woof wof wooooof wf wof woof-woof wf wof woof;

and whether it was that he was not yet half waked from his sleep (for
wof wooooof wf wof woof wf wof wof wof woof wooof woof wof wooof (wof

sailors sometimes go aloft in a transition state), whether it was thus
wooooof wooooooof wf wooof wf w woooooooof wooof), wooooof wf wof woof

with the man, there is now no telling; but, be that as it may, he
woof wof wof, wooof wf wof wf wooooof; wof, wf woof wf wf wof, wf

had not been long at his perch, when a cry was heard--a cry and a
wof wof woof woof wf wof wooof, woof w wof wof wooof--w wof wof w

rushing--and looking up, they saw a falling phantom in the air; and
wooooof--wof wooooof wf, woof wof w wooooof wooooof wf wof wof; wof

looking down, a little tossed heap of white bubbles in the blue of the
wooooof woof, w woooof woooof woof wf wooof wooooof wf wof woof wf wof

sea.
wof.




The life-buoy--a long slender cask--was dropped from the stern, where it
Wof woof-woof--w woof wooooof woof--wof wooooof woof wof wooof, wooof wf

always hung obedient to a cunning spring; but no hand rose to seize it,
woooof woof woooooof wf w wooooof woooof; wof wf woof woof wf wooof wf,

and the sun having long beat upon this cask it had shrunken, so that it
wof wof wof woooof woof woof woof woof woof wf wof woooooof, wf woof wf

slowly filled, and that parched wood also filled at its every pore; and
woooof woooof, wof woof wooooof woof woof woooof wf wof wooof woof; wof

the studded iron-bound cask followed the sailor to the bottom, as if to
wof wooooof woof-wooof woof woooooof wof woooof wf wof woooof, wf wf wf

yield him his pillow, though in sooth but a hard one.
wooof wof wof woooof, woooof wf wooof wof w woof wof.




And thus the first man of the Pequod that mounted the mast to look out
Wof woof wof wooof wof wf wof Woooof woof wooooof wof woof wf woof wof

for the White Whale, on the White Whale's own peculiar ground; that man
wof wof Wooof Wooof, wf wof Wooof Wooof'w wof woooooof woooof; woof wof

was swallowed up in the deep. But few, perhaps, thought of that at the
wof wooooooof wf wf wof woof. Wof wof, wooooof, wooooof wf woof wf wof

time. Indeed, in some sort, they were not grieved at this event, at
woof. Woooof, wf woof woof, woof woof wof wooooof wf woof wooof, wf

least as a portent; for they regarded it, not as a foreshadowing of evil
wooof wf w wooooof; wof woof woooooof wf, wof wf w wooooooooooof wf woof

in the future, but as the fulfilment of an evil already presaged. They
wf wof woooof, wof wf wof woooooooof wf wf woof wooooof woooooof. Woof

declared that now they knew the reason of those wild shrieks they had
woooooof woof wof woof woof wof woooof wf wooof woof wooooof woof wof

heard the night before. But again the old Manxman said nay.
wooof wof wooof woooof. Wof wooof wof wof Wooooof woof wof.




The lost life-buoy was now to be replaced; Starbuck was directed to see
Wof woof woof-woof wof wof wf wf woooooof; Woooooof wof woooooof wf wof

to it; but as no cask of sufficient lightness could be found, and as
wf wf; wof wf wf woof wf woooooooof wooooooof wooof wf wooof, wof wf

in the feverish eagerness of what seemed the approaching crisis of
wf wof woooooof wooooooof wf woof woooof wof wooooooooof woooof wf

the voyage, all hands were impatient of any toil but what was directly
wof woooof, wof wooof woof wooooooof wf wof woof wof woof wof woooooof

connected with its final end, whatever that might prove to be;
wooooooof woof wof wooof wof, woooooof woof wooof wooof wf wf;

therefore, they were going to leave the ship's stern unprovided with a
wooooooof, woof woof wooof wf wooof wof woof'w wooof woooooooof woof w

buoy, when by certain strange signs and inuendoes Queequeg hinted a hint
woof, woof wf wooooof wooooof wooof wof wooooooof Woooooof woooof w woof

concerning his coffin.
woooooooof wof woooof.




"A life-buoy of a coffin!" cried Starbuck, starting.
"W woof-woof wf w woooof!" wooof Woooooof, woooooof.




"Rather queer, that, I should say," said Stubb.
"Woooof wooof, woof, W woooof wof," woof Wooof.




"It will make a good enough one," said Flask, "the carpenter here can
"Wf woof woof w woof woooof wof," woof Wooof, "wof wooooooof woof wof

arrange it easily."
wooooof wf woooof."




"Bring it up; there's nothing else for it," said Starbuck, after a
"Wooof wf wf; wooof'w wooooof woof wof wf," woof Woooooof, wooof w

melancholy pause. "Rig it, carpenter; do not look at me so--the coffin,
woooooooof wooof. "Wof wf, wooooooof; wf wof woof wf wf wf--wof woooof,

I mean. Dost thou hear me? Rig it."
W woof. Woof woof woof wf? Wof wf."




"And shall I nail down the lid, sir?" moving his hand as with a hammer.
"Wof wooof W woof woof wof wof, wof?" woooof wof woof wf woof w woooof.




"Aye."
"Wof."




"And shall I caulk the seams, sir?" moving his hand as with a
"Wof wooof W wooof wof wooof, wof?" woooof wof woof wf woof w

caulking-iron.
woooooof-woof.




"Aye."
"Wof."




"And shall I then pay over the same with pitch, sir?" moving his hand as
"Wof wooof W woof wof woof wof woof woof wooof, wof?" woooof wof woof wf

with a pitch-pot.
woof w wooof-wof.




"Away! what possesses thee to this? Make a life-buoy of the coffin, and
"Woof! woof wooooooof woof wf woof? Woof w woof-woof wf wof woooof, wof

no more.--Mr. Stubb, Mr. Flask, come forward with me."
wf woof.--Wf. Wooof, Wf. Wooof, woof wooooof woof wf."




"He goes off in a huff. The whole he can endure; at the parts he baulks.
"Wf woof wof wf w woof. Wof wooof wf wof woooof; wf wof wooof wf woooof.

Now I don't like this. I make a leg for Captain Ahab, and he wears it
Wof W wof'w woof woof. W woof w wof wof Wooooof Woof, wof wf wooof wf

like a gentleman; but I make a bandbox for Queequeg, and he won't put
woof w wooooooof; wof W woof w wooooof wof Woooooof, wof wf wof'w wof

his head into it. Are all my pains to go for nothing with that coffin?
wof woof woof wf. Wof wof wf wooof wf wf wof wooooof woof woof woooof?

And now I'm ordered to make a life-buoy of it. It's like turning an old
Wof wof W'w wooooof wf woof w woof-woof wf wf. Wf'w woof wooooof wf wof

coat; going to bring the flesh on the other side now. I don't like this
woof; wooof wf wooof wof wooof wf wof wooof woof wof. W wof'w woof woof

cobbling sort of business--I don't like it at all; it's undignified;
woooooof woof wf woooooof--W wof'w woof wf wf wof; wf'w wooooooooof;

it's not my place. Let tinkers' brats do tinkerings; we are their
wf'w wof wf wooof. Wof wooooof' wooof wf woooooooof; wf wof wooof

betters. I like to take in hand none but clean, virgin, fair-and-square
wooooof. W woof wf woof wf woof woof wof wooof, woooof, woof-wof-woooof

mathematical jobs, something that regularly begins at the beginning, and
woooooooooof woof, wooooooof woof wooooooof woooof wf wof wooooooof, wof

is at the middle when midway, and comes to an end at the conclusion; not
wf wf wof woooof woof woooof, wof wooof wf wf wof wf wof woooooooof; wof

a cobbler's job, that's at an end in the middle, and at the beginning at
w wooooof'w wof, woof'w wf wf wof wf wof woooof, wof wf wof wooooooof wf

the end. It's the old woman's tricks to be giving cobbling jobs. Lord!
wof wof. Wf'w wof wof wooof'w woooof wf wf woooof woooooof woof. Woof!

what an affection all old women have for tinkers. I know an old woman of
woof wf wooooooof wof wof wooof woof wof wooooof. W woof wf wof wooof wf

sixty-five who ran away with a bald-headed young tinker once. And that's
wooof-woof wof wof woof woof w woof-woooof wooof woooof woof. Wof woof'w

the reason I never would work for lonely widow old women ashore, when
wof woooof W wooof wooof woof wof woooof wooof wof wooof woooof, woof

I kept my job-shop in the Vineyard; they might have taken it into their
W woof wf wof-woof wf wof Woooooof; woof wooof woof wooof wf woof wooof

lonely old heads to run off with me. But heigh-ho! there are no caps at
woooof wof wooof wf wof wof woof wf. Wof wooof-wf! wooof wof wf woof wf

sea but snow-caps. Let me see. Nail down the lid; caulk the seams; pay
wof wof woof-woof. Wof wf wof. Woof woof wof wof; wooof wof wooof; wof

over the same with pitch; batten them down tight, and hang it with the
woof wof woof woof wooof; woooof woof woof wooof, wof woof wf woof wof

snap-spring over the ship's stern. Were ever such things done before
woof-woooof woof wof woof'w wooof. Woof woof woof woooof woof woooof

with a coffin? Some superstitious old carpenters, now, would be tied
woof w woooof? Woof wooooooooooof wof woooooooof, wof, wooof wf woof

up in the rigging, ere they would do the job. But I'm made of knotty
wf wf wof wooooof, wof woof wooof wf wof wof. Wof W'w woof wf woooof

Aroostook hemlock; I don't budge. Cruppered with a coffin! Sailing
Wooooooof wooooof; W wof'w wooof. Wooooooof woof w woooof! Wooooof

about with a grave-yard tray! But never mind. We workers in woods make
wooof woof w wooof-woof woof! Wof wooof woof. Wf wooooof wf wooof woof

bridal-bedsteads and card-tables, as well as coffins and hearses. We
woooof-wooooooof wof woof-woooof, wf woof wf wooooof wof wooooof. Wf

work by the month, or by the job, or by the profit; not for us to ask
woof wf wof wooof, wf wf wof wof, wf wf wof woooof; wof wof wf wf wof

the why and wherefore of our work, unless it be too confounded cobbling,
wof wof wof wooooooof wf wof woof, woooof wf wf wof woooooooof woooooof,

and then we stash it if we can. Hem! I'll do the job, now, tenderly.
wof woof wf wooof wf wf wf wof. Wof! W'wf wf wof wof, wof, woooooof.

I'll have me--let's see--how many in the ship's company, all told? But
W'wf woof wf--wof'w wof--wof woof wf wof woof'w wooooof, wof woof? Wof

I've forgotten. Any way, I'll have me thirty separate, Turk's-headed
W'wf wooooooof. Wof wof, W'wf woof wf woooof woooooof, Woof'w-woooof

life-lines, each three feet long hanging all round to the coffin. Then,
woof-wooof, woof wooof woof woof wooooof wof wooof wf wof woooof. Woof,

if the hull go down, there'll be thirty lively fellows all fighting for
wf wof woof wf woof, wooof'wf wf woooof woooof wooooof wof woooooof wof

one coffin, a sight not seen very often beneath the sun! Come hammer,
wof woooof, w wooof wof woof woof wooof wooooof wof wof! Woof woooof,

caulking-iron, pitch-pot, and marling-spike! Let's to it."
woooooof-woof, wooof-wof, wof wooooof-wooof! Wof'w wf wf."










CHAPTER 127. The Deck.
WOOOOOF wof. Wof Woof.







THE COFFIN LAID UPON TWO LINE-TUBS, BETWEEN THE VICE-BENCH AND THE OPEN
WOF WOOOOF WOOF WOOF WOF WOOF-WOOF, WOOOOOF WOF WOOF-WOOOF WOF WOF WOOF

HATCHWAY; THE CARPENTER CAULKING ITS SEAMS; THE STRING OF TWISTED OAKUM
WOOOOOOF; WOF WOOOOOOOF WOOOOOOF WOF WOOOF; WOF WOOOOF WF WOOOOOF WOOOF

SLOWLY UNWINDING FROM A LARGE ROLL OF IT PLACED IN THE BOSOM OF
WOOOOF WOOOOOOOF WOOF W WOOOF WOOF WF WF WOOOOF WF WOF WOOOF WF

HIS FROCK.--AHAB COMES SLOWLY FROM THE CABIN-GANGWAY, AND HEARS PIP
WOF WOOOF.--WOOF WOOOF WOOOOF WOOF WOF WOOOF-WOOOOOF, WOF WOOOF WOF

FOLLOWING HIM.
WOOOOOOOF WOF.







"Back, lad; I will be with ye again presently. He goes! Not this hand
"Woof, wof; W woof wf woof wf wooof wooooooof. Wf woof! Wof woof woof

complies with my humor more genially than that boy.--Middle aisle of a
woooooof woof wf wooof woof woooooof woof woof wof.--Woooof wooof wf w

church! What's here?"
woooof! Woof'w woof?"




"Life-buoy, sir. Mr. Starbuck's orders. Oh, look, sir! Beware the
"Woof-woof, wof. Wf. Woooooof'w woooof. Wf, woof, wof! Woooof wof

hatchway!"
woooooof!"




"Thank ye, man. Thy coffin lies handy to the vault."
"Wooof wf, wof. Wof woooof woof wooof wf wof wooof."




"Sir? The hatchway? oh! So it does, sir, so it does."
"Wof? Wof woooooof? wf! Wf wf woof, wof, wf wf woof."




"Art not thou the leg-maker? Look, did not this stump come from thy
"Wof wof woof wof wof-wooof? Woof, wof wof woof wooof woof woof wof

shop?"
woof?"




"I believe it did, sir; does the ferrule stand, sir?"
"W wooooof wf wof, wof; woof wof wooooof wooof, wof?"




"Well enough. But art thou not also the undertaker?"
"Woof woooof. Wof wof woof wof woof wof woooooooof?"




"Aye, sir; I patched up this thing here as a coffin for Queequeg; but
"Wof, wof; W wooooof wf woof wooof woof wf w woooof wof Woooooof; wof

they've set me now to turning it into something else."
woof'wf wof wf wof wf wooooof wf woof wooooooof woof."




"Then tell me; art thou not an arrant, all-grasping, intermeddling,
"Woof woof wf; wof woof wof wf woooof, wof-woooooof, wooooooooooof,

monopolising, heathenish old scamp, to be one day making legs, and the
woooooooooof, woooooooof wof wooof, wf wf wof wof woooof woof, wof wof

next day coffins to clap them in, and yet again life-buoys out of those
woof wof wooooof wf woof woof wf, wof wof wooof woof-wooof wof wf wooof

same coffins? Thou art as unprincipled as the gods, and as much of a
woof wooooof? Woof wof wf woooooooooof wf wof woof, wof wf woof wf w

jack-of-all-trades."
woof-wf-wof-woooof."




"But I do not mean anything, sir. I do as I do."
"Wof W wf wof woof woooooof, wof. W wf wf W wf."




"The gods again. Hark ye, dost thou not ever sing working about a
"Wof woof wooof. Woof wf, woof woof wof woof woof wooooof wooof w

coffin? The Titans, they say, hummed snatches when chipping out the
woooof? Wof Woooof, woof wof, woooof woooooof woof woooooof wof wof

craters for volcanoes; and the grave-digger in the play sings, spade in
wooooof wof wooooooof; wof wof wooof-woooof wf wof woof wooof, wooof wf

hand. Dost thou never?"
woof. Woof woof wooof?"




"Sing, sir? Do I sing? Oh, I'm indifferent enough, sir, for that; but
"Woof, wof? Wf W woof? Wf, W'w wooooooooof woooof, wof, wof woof; wof

the reason why the grave-digger made music must have been because there
wof woooof wof wof wooof-woooof woof wooof woof woof woof wooooof wooof

was none in his spade, sir. But the caulking mallet is full of it. Hark
wof woof wf wof wooof, wof. Wof wof woooooof woooof wf woof wf wf. Woof

to it."
wf wf."




"Aye, and that's because the lid there's a sounding-board; and what in
"Wof, wof woof'w wooooof wof wof wooof'w w woooooof-wooof; wof woof wf

all things makes the sounding-board is this--there's naught beneath. And
wof woooof wooof wof woooooof-wooof wf woof--wooof'w woooof wooooof. Wof

yet, a coffin with a body in it rings pretty much the same, Carpenter.
wof, w woooof woof w woof wf wf wooof woooof woof wof woof, Wooooooof.

Hast thou ever helped carry a bier, and heard the coffin knock against
Woof woof woof woooof wooof w woof, wof wooof wof woooof wooof wooooof

the churchyard gate, going in?
wof woooooooof woof, wooof wf?




"Faith, sir, I've--"
"Wooof, wof, W'wf--"




"Faith? What's that?"
"Wooof? Woof'w woof?"




"Why, faith, sir, it's only a sort of exclamation-like--that's all,
"Wof, wooof, wof, wf'w woof w woof wf wooooooooof-woof--woof'w wof,

sir."
wof."




"Um, um; go on."
"Wf, wf; wf wf."




"I was about to say, sir, that--"
"W wof wooof wf wof, wof, woof--"




"Art thou a silk-worm? Dost thou spin thy own shroud out of thyself?
"Wof woof w woof-woof? Woof woof woof wof wof woooof wof wf wooooof?

Look at thy bosom! Despatch! and get these traps out of sight."
Woof wf wof wooof! Woooooof! wof wof wooof wooof wof wf wooof."




"He goes aft. That was sudden, now; but squalls come sudden in hot
"Wf woof wof. Woof wof woooof, wof; wof wooooof woof woooof wf wof

latitudes. I've heard that the Isle of Albemarle, one of the Gallipagos,
wooooooof. W'wf wooof woof wof Woof wf Wooooooof, wof wf wof Woooooooof,

is cut by the Equator right in the middle. Seems to me some sort of
wf wof wf wof Wooooof wooof wf wof woooof. Wooof wf wf woof woof wf

Equator cuts yon old man, too, right in his middle. He's always under
Wooooof woof wof wof wof, wof, wooof wf wof woooof. Wf'w woooof wooof

the Line--fiery hot, I tell ye! He's looking this way--come, oakum;
wof Woof--wooof wof, W woof wf! Wf'w wooooof woof wof--woof, wooof;

quick. Here we go again. This wooden mallet is the cork, and I'm the
wooof. Woof wf wf wooof. Woof woooof woooof wf wof woof, wof W'w wof

professor of musical glasses--tap, tap!"
wooooooof wf wooooof wooooof--wof, wof!"




(AHAB TO HIMSELF.)
(WOOF WF WOOOOOF.)




"There's a sight! There's a sound! The grey-headed woodpecker tapping
"Wooof'w w wooof! Wooof'w w wooof! Wof woof-woooof woooooooof wooooof

the hollow tree! Blind and dumb might well be envied now. See! that
wof woooof woof! Wooof wof woof wooof woof wf woooof wof. Wof! woof

thing rests on two line-tubs, full of tow-lines. A most malicious wag,
wooof wooof wf wof woof-woof, woof wf wof-wooof. W woof wooooooof wof,

that fellow. Rat-tat! So man's seconds tick! Oh! how immaterial are all
woof woooof. Wof-wof! Wf wof'w wooooof woof! Wf! wof woooooooof wof wof

materials! What things real are there, but imponderable thoughts? Here
wooooooof! Woof woooof woof wof wooof, wof woooooooooof woooooof? Woof

now's the very dreaded symbol of grim death, by a mere hap, made
wof'w wof woof wooooof woooof wf woof wooof, wf w woof wof, woof

the expressive sign of the help and hope of most endangered life.
wof woooooooof woof wf wof woof wof woof wf woof woooooooof woof.

A life-buoy of a coffin! Does it go further? Can it be that in some
W woof-woof wf w woooof! Woof wf wf wooooof? Wof wf wf woof wf woof

spiritual sense the coffin is, after all, but an immortality-preserver!
wooooooof wooof wof woooof wf, wooof wof, wof wf wooooooooof-wooooooof!

I'll think of that. But no. So far gone am I in the dark side of earth,
W'wf wooof wf woof. Wof wf. Wf wof woof wf W wf wof woof woof wf wooof,

that its other side, the theoretic bright one, seems but uncertain
woof wof wooof woof, wof wooooooof woooof wof, wooof wof wooooooof

twilight to me. Will ye never have done, Carpenter, with that accursed
woooooof wf wf. Woof wf wooof woof woof, Wooooooof, woof woof woooooof

sound? I go below; let me not see that thing here when I return
wooof? W wf wooof; wof wf wof wof woof wooof woof woof W woooof

again. Now, then, Pip, we'll talk this over; I do suck most wondrous
wooof. Wof, woof, Wof, wf'wf woof woof woof; W wf woof woof woooooof

philosophies from thee! Some unknown conduits from the unknown worlds
woooooooooof woof woof! Woof wooooof woooooof woof wof wooooof woooof

must empty into thee!"
woof wooof woof woof!"










CHAPTER 128. The Pequod Meets The Rachel.
WOOOOOF wof. Wof Woooof Wooof Wof Woooof.







Next day, a large ship, the Rachel, was descried, bearing directly down
Woof wof, w wooof woof, wof Woooof, wof woooooof, wooooof woooooof woof

upon the Pequod, all her spars thickly clustering with men. At the
woof wof Woooof, wof wof wooof wooooof woooooooof woof wof. Wf wof

time the Pequod was making good speed through the water; but as the
woof wof Woooof wof woooof woof wooof wooooof wof wooof; wof wf wof

broad-winged windward stranger shot nigh to her, the boastful sails all
wooof-woooof woooooof woooooof woof woof wf wof, wof woooooof wooof wof

fell together as blank bladders that are burst, and all life fled from
woof woooooof wf wooof woooooof woof wof wooof, wof wof woof woof woof

the smitten hull.
wof wooooof woof.




"Bad news; she brings bad news," muttered the old Manxman. But ere her
"Wof woof; wof woooof wof woof," woooooof wof wof Wooooof. Wof wof wof

commander, who, with trumpet to mouth, stood up in his boat; ere he
wooooooof, wof, woof wooooof wf wooof, wooof wf wf wof woof; wof wf

could hopefully hail, Ahab's voice was heard.
wooof wooooooof woof, Woof'w wooof wof wooof.




"Hast seen the White Whale?"
"Woof woof wof Wooof Wooof?"




"Aye, yesterday. Have ye seen a whale-boat adrift?"
"Wof, wooooooof. Woof wf woof w wooof-woof woooof?"




Throttling his joy, Ahab negatively answered this unexpected question;
Woooooooof wof wof, Woof woooooooof woooooof woof woooooooof woooooof;

and would then have fain boarded the stranger, when the stranger captain
wof wooof woof woof woof wooooof wof woooooof, woof wof woooooof wooooof

himself, having stopped his vessel's way, was seen descending her
wooooof, woooof wooooof wof woooof'w wof, wof woof woooooooof wof

side. A few keen pulls, and his boat-hook soon clinched the Pequod's
woof. W wof woof wooof, wof wof woof-woof woof woooooof wof Woooof'w

main-chains, and he sprang to the deck. Immediately he was recognised by
woof-woooof, wof wf woooof wf wof woof. Wooooooooof wf wof woooooooof wf

Ahab for a Nantucketer he knew. But no formal salutation was exchanged.
Woof wof w Wooooooooof wf woof. Wof wf woooof woooooooof wof wooooooof.




"Where was he?--not killed!--not killed!" cried Ahab, closely advancing.
"Wooof wof wf?--wof woooof!--wof woooof!" wooof Woof, wooooof wooooooof.

"How was it?"
"Wof wof wf?"




It seemed that somewhat late on the afternoon of the day previous, while
Wf woooof woof woooooof woof wf wof wooooooof wf wof wof woooooof, wooof

three of the stranger's boats were engaged with a shoal of whales, which
wooof wf wof woooooof'w wooof woof wooooof woof w wooof wf woooof, wooof

had led them some four or five miles from the ship; and while they were
wof wof woof woof woof wf woof wooof woof wof woof; wof wooof woof woof

yet in swift chase to windward, the white hump and head of Moby Dick had
wof wf wooof wooof wf woooooof, wof wooof woof wof woof wf Woof Woof wof

suddenly loomed up out of the water, not very far to leeward; whereupon,
woooooof woooof wf wof wf wof wooof, wof woof wof wf wooooof; wooooooof,

the fourth rigged boat--a reserved one--had been instantly lowered in
wof woooof woooof woof--w woooooof wof--wof woof wooooooof wooooof wf

chase. After a keen sail before the wind, this fourth boat--the swiftest
wooof. Wooof w woof woof woooof wof woof, woof woooof woof--wof woooooof

keeled of all--seemed to have succeeded in fastening--at least, as
woooof wf wof--woooof wf woof wooooooof wf wooooooof--wf wooof, wf

well as the man at the mast-head could tell anything about it. In the
woof wf wof wof wf wof woof-woof wooof woof woooooof wooof wf. Wf wof

distance he saw the diminished dotted boat; and then a swift gleam
woooooof wf wof wof woooooooof woooof woof; wof woof w wooof wooof

of bubbling white water; and after that nothing more; whence it was
wf woooooof wooof wooof; wof wooof woof wooooof woof; woooof wf wof

concluded that the stricken whale must have indefinitely run away with
wooooooof woof wof woooooof wooof woof woof woooooooooof wof woof woof

his pursuers, as often happens. There was some apprehension, but no
wof woooooof, wf wooof wooooof. Wooof wof woof woooooooooof, wof wf

positive alarm, as yet. The recall signals were placed in the rigging;
woooooof wooof, wf wof. Wof woooof wooooof woof woooof wf wof wooooof;

darkness came on; and forced to pick up her three far to windward
woooooof woof wf; wof woooof wf woof wf wof wooof wof wf woooooof

boats--ere going in quest of the fourth one in the precisely opposite
wooof--wof wooof wf wooof wf wof woooof wof wf wof wooooooof woooooof

direction--the ship had not only been necessitated to leave that boat to
wooooooof--wof woof wof wof woof woof woooooooooof wf wooof woof woof wf

its fate till near midnight, but, for the time, to increase her distance
wof woof woof woof woooooof, wof, wof wof woof, wf woooooof wof woooooof

from it. But the rest of her crew being at last safe aboard, she crowded
woof wf. Wof wof woof wf wof woof wooof wf woof woof woooof, wof wooooof

all sail--stunsail on stunsail--after the missing boat; kindling a fire
wof woof--woooooof wf woooooof--wooof wof wooooof woof; woooooof w woof

in her try-pots for a beacon; and every other man aloft on the look-out.
wf wof wof-woof wof w woooof; wof wooof wooof wof wooof wf wof woof-wof.

But though when she had thus sailed a sufficient distance to gain the
Wof woooof woof wof wof woof woooof w woooooooof woooooof wf woof wof

presumed place of the absent ones when last seen; though she then
woooooof wooof wf wof woooof woof woof woof woof; woooof wof woof

paused to lower her spare boats to pull all around her; and not finding
woooof wf wooof wof wooof wooof wf woof wof woooof wof; wof wof wooooof

anything, had again dashed on; again paused, and lowered her boats; and
woooooof, wof wooof woooof wf; wooof woooof, wof wooooof wof wooof; wof

though she had thus continued doing till daylight; yet not the least
woooof wof wof woof wooooooof wooof woof woooooof; wof wof wof wooof

glimpse of the missing keel had been seen.
wooooof wf wof wooooof woof wof woof woof.




The story told, the stranger Captain immediately went on to reveal his
Wof wooof woof, wof woooooof Wooooof wooooooooof woof wf wf woooof wof

object in boarding the Pequod. He desired that ship to unite with his
woooof wf woooooof wof Woooof. Wf wooooof woof woof wf wooof woof wof

own in the search; by sailing over the sea some four or five miles
wof wf wof woooof; wf wooooof woof wof wof woof woof wf woof wooof

apart, on parallel lines, and so sweeping a double horizon, as it were.
wooof, wf woooooof wooof, wof wf woooooof w woooof wooooof, wf wf woof.




"I will wager something now," whispered Stubb to Flask, "that some one
"W woof wooof wooooooof wof," wooooooof Wooof wf Wooof, "woof woof wof

in that missing boat wore off that Captain's best coat; mayhap, his
wf woof wooooof woof woof wof woof Wooooof'w woof woof; woooof, wof

watch--he's so cursed anxious to get it back. Who ever heard of two
wooof--wf'w wf woooof wooooof wf wof wf woof. Wof woof wooof wf wof

pious whale-ships cruising after one missing whale-boat in the height of
wooof wooof-wooof woooooof wooof wof wooooof wooof-woof wf wof woooof wf

the whaling season? See, Flask, only see how pale he looks--pale in the
wof wooooof woooof? Wof, Wooof, woof wof wof woof wf wooof--woof wf wof

very buttons of his eyes--look--it wasn't the coat--it must have been
woof wooooof wf wof woof--woof--wf woof'w wof woof--wf woof woof woof

the--"
wof--"




"My boy, my own boy is among them. For God's sake--I beg, I
"Wf wof, wf wof wof wf wooof woof. Wof Wof'w woof--W wof, W

conjure"--here exclaimed the stranger Captain to Ahab, who thus far
wooooof"--woof wooooooof wof woooooof Wooooof wf Woof, wof woof wof

had but icily received his petition. "For eight-and-forty hours let me
wof wof wooof woooooof wof woooooof. "Wof wooof-wof-wooof wooof wof wf

charter your ship--I will gladly pay for it, and roundly pay for it--if
wooooof woof woof--W woof woooof wof wof wf, wof wooooof wof wof wf--wf

there be no other way--for eight-and-forty hours only--only that--you
wooof wf wf wooof wof--wof wooof-wof-wooof wooof woof--woof woof--wof

must, oh, you must, and you SHALL do this thing."
woof, wf, wof woof, wof wof WOOOF wf woof wooof."




"His son!" cried Stubb, "oh, it's his son he's lost! I take back the
"Wof wof!" wooof Wooof, "wf, wf'w wof wof wf'w woof! W woof woof wof

coat and watch--what says Ahab? We must save that boy."
woof wof wooof--woof woof Woof? Wf woof woof woof wof."




"He's drowned with the rest on 'em, last night," said the old Manx
"Wf'w wooooof woof wof woof wf 'wf, woof wooof," woof wof wof Woof

sailor standing behind them; "I heard; all of ye heard their spirits."
woooof woooooof woooof woof; "W wooof; wof wf wf wooof wooof wooooof."




Now, as it shortly turned out, what made this incident of the Rachel's
Wof, wf wf wooooof woooof wof, woof woof woof woooooof wf wof Woooof'w

the more melancholy, was the circumstance, that not only was one of the
wof woof woooooooof, wof wof woooooooooof, woof wof woof wof wof wf wof

Captain's sons among the number of the missing boat's crew; but among
Wooooof'w woof wooof wof woooof wf wof wooooof woof'w woof; wof wooof

the number of the other boat's crews, at the same time, but on the other
wof woooof wf wof wooof woof'w wooof, wf wof woof woof, wof wf wof wooof

hand, separated from the ship during the dark vicissitudes of the chase,
woof, wooooooof woof wof woof woooof wof woof woooooooooof wf wof wooof,

there had been still another son; as that for a time, the wretched
wooof wof woof wooof wooooof wof; wf woof wof w woof, wof woooooof

father was plunged to the bottom of the cruellest perplexity; which
woooof wof wooooof wf wof woooof wf wof wooooooof woooooooof; wooof

was only solved for him by his chief mate's instinctively adopting the
wof woof woooof wof wof wf wof wooof woof'w wooooooooooof woooooof wof

ordinary procedure of a whale-ship in such emergencies, that is, when
woooooof wooooooof wf w wooof-woof wf woof wooooooooof, woof wf, woof

placed between jeopardized but divided boats, always to pick up the
woooof wooooof wooooooooof wof wooooof wooof, woooof wf woof wf wof

majority first. But the captain, for some unknown constitutional reason,
woooooof wooof. Wof wof wooooof, wof woof wooooof woooooooooooof woooof,

had refrained from mentioning all this, and not till forced to it by
wof wooooooof woof woooooooof wof woof, wof wof woof woooof wf wf wf

Ahab's iciness did he allude to his one yet missing boy; a little lad,
Woof'w wooooof wof wf woooof wf wof wof wof wooooof wof; w woooof wof,

but twelve years old, whose father with the earnest but unmisgiving
wof woooof wooof wof, wooof woooof woof wof wooooof wof wooooooooof

hardihood of a Nantucketer's paternal love, had thus early sought to
wooooooof wf w Wooooooooof'w woooooof woof, wof woof wooof woooof wf

initiate him in the perils and wonders of a vocation almost immemorially
woooooof wof wf wof woooof wof wooooof wf w woooooof woooof woooooooooof

the destiny of all his race. Nor does it unfrequently occur, that
wof wooooof wf wof wof woof. Wof woof wf woooooooooof wooof, woof

Nantucket captains will send a son of such tender age away from them,
Wooooooof woooooof woof woof w wof wf woof woooof wof woof woof woof,

for a protracted three or four years' voyage in some other ship than
wof w woooooooof wooof wf woof wooof' woooof wf woof wooof woof woof

their own; so that their first knowledge of a whaleman's career shall
wooof wof; wf woof wooof wooof wooooooof wf w woooooof'w woooof wooof

be unenervated by any chance display of a father's natural but untimely
wf wooooooooof wf wof woooof wooooof wf w woooof'w wooooof wof woooooof

partiality, or undue apprehensiveness and concern.
woooooooof, wf wooof woooooooooooooof wof wooooof.




Meantime, now the stranger was still beseeching his poor boon of Ahab;
Woooooof, wof wof woooooof wof wooof woooooooof wof woof woof wf Woof;

and Ahab still stood like an anvil, receiving every shock, but without
wof Woof wooof wooof woof wf wooof, wooooooof wooof wooof, wof wooooof

the least quivering of his own.
wof wooof wooooooof wf wof wof.




"I will not go," said the stranger, "till you say aye to me. Do to me
"W woof wof wf," woof wof woooooof, "woof wof wof wof wf wf. Wf wf wf

as you would have me do to you in the like case. For YOU too have a boy,
wf wof wooof woof wf wf wf wof wf wof woof woof. Wof WOF wof woof w wof,

Captain Ahab--though but a child, and nestling safely at home now--a
Wooooof Woof--woooof wof w wooof, wof woooooof woooof wf woof wof--w

child of your old age too--Yes, yes, you relent; I see it--run, run,
wooof wf woof wof wof wof--Wof, wof, wof woooof; W wof wf--wof, wof,

men, now, and stand by to square in the yards."
wof, wof, wof wooof wf wf woooof wf wof wooof."




"Avast," cried Ahab--"touch not a rope-yarn"; then in a voice that
"Wooof," wooof Woof--"wooof wof w woof-woof"; woof wf w wooof woof

prolongingly moulded every word--"Captain Gardiner, I will not do it.
woooooooooof wooooof wooof woof--"Wooooof Woooooof, W woof wof wf wf.

Even now I lose time. Good-bye, good-bye. God bless ye, man, and may I
Woof wof W woof woof. Woof-wof, woof-wof. Wof wooof wf, wof, wof wof W

forgive myself, but I must go. Mr. Starbuck, look at the binnacle watch,
wooooof woooof, wof W woof wf. Wf. Woooooof, woof wf wof woooooof wooof,

and in three minutes from this present instant warn off all strangers:
wof wf wooof wooooof woof woof wooooof wooooof woof wof wof wooooooof:

then brace forward again, and let the ship sail as before."
woof wooof wooooof wooof, wof wof wof woof woof wf woooof."




Hurriedly turning, with averted face, he descended into his cabin,
Wooooooof wooooof, woof wooooof woof, wf wooooooof woof wof wooof,

leaving the strange captain transfixed at this unconditional and utter
wooooof wof wooooof wooooof woooooooof wf woof wooooooooooof wof wooof

rejection of his so earnest suit. But starting from his enchantment,
wooooooof wf wof wf wooooof woof. Wof woooooof woof wof wooooooooof,

Gardiner silently hurried to the side; more fell than stepped into his
Woooooof woooooof wooooof wf wof woof; woof woof woof wooooof woof wof

boat, and returned to his ship.
woof, wof woooooof wf wof woof.




Soon the two ships diverged their wakes; and long as the strange vessel
Woof wof wof wooof woooooof wooof wooof; wof woof wf wof wooooof woooof

was in view, she was seen to yaw hither and thither at every dark spot,
wof wf woof, wof wof woof wf wof woooof wof wooooof wf wooof woof woof,

however small, on the sea. This way and that her yards were swung round;
wooooof wooof, wf wof wof. Woof wof wof woof wof wooof woof wooof wooof;

starboard and larboard, she continued to tack; now she beat against a
wooooooof wof woooooof, wof wooooooof wf woof; wof wof woof wooooof w

head sea; and again it pushed her before it; while all the while, her
woof wof; wof wooof wf woooof wof woooof wf; wooof wof wof wooof, wof

masts and yards were thickly clustered with men, as three tall cherry
wooof wof wooof woof wooooof wooooooof woof wof, wf wooof woof woooof

trees, when the boys are cherrying among the boughs.
wooof, woof wof woof wof wooooooof wooof wof woooof.




But by her still halting course and winding, woeful way, you plainly saw
Wof wf wof wooof wooooof woooof wof wooooof, woooof wof, wof wooooof wof

that this ship that so wept with spray, still remained without comfort.
woof woof woof woof wf woof woof wooof, wooof woooooof wooooof wooooof.

She was Rachel, weeping for her children, because they were not.
Wof wof Woooof, wooooof wof wof woooooof, wooooof woof woof wof.










CHAPTER 129. The Cabin.
WOOOOOF wof. Wof Wooof.







(AHAB MOVING TO GO ON DECK; PIP CATCHES HIM BY THE HAND TO FOLLOW.)
(WOOF WOOOOF WF WF WF WOOF; WOF WOOOOOF WOF WF WOF WOOF WF WOOOOF.)




"Lad, lad, I tell thee thou must not follow Ahab now. The hour is coming
"Wof, wof, W woof woof woof woof wof woooof Woof wof. Wof woof wf woooof

when Ahab would not scare thee from him, yet would not have thee by him.
woof Woof wooof wof wooof woof woof wof, wof wooof wof woof woof wf wof.

There is that in thee, poor lad, which I feel too curing to my malady.
Wooof wf woof wf woof, woof wof, wooof W woof wof woooof wf wf woooof.

Like cures like; and for this hunt, my malady becomes my most desired
Woof wooof woof; wof wof woof woof, wf woooof wooooof wf woof wooooof

health. Do thou abide below here, where they shall serve thee, as if
woooof. Wf woof wooof wooof woof, wooof woof wooof wooof woof, wf wf

thou wert the captain. Aye, lad, thou shalt sit here in my own screwed
woof woof wof wooooof. Wof, wof, woof wooof wof woof wf wf wof wooooof

chair; another screw to it, thou must be."
wooof; wooooof wooof wf wf, woof woof wf."




"No, no, no! ye have not a whole body, sir; do ye but use poor me for
"Wf, wf, wf! wf woof wof w wooof woof, wof; wf wf wof wof woof wf wof

your one lost leg; only tread upon me, sir; I ask no more, so I remain a
woof wof woof wof; woof wooof woof wf, wof; W wof wf woof, wf W woooof w

part of ye."
woof wf wf."




"Oh! spite of million villains, this makes me a bigot in the fadeless
"Wf! wooof wf wooooof woooooof, woof wooof wf w wooof wf wof woooooof

fidelity of man!--and a black! and crazy!--but methinks like-cures-like
woooooof wf wof!--wof w wooof! wof wooof!--wof woooooof woof-wooof-woof

applies to him too; he grows so sane again."
wooooof wf wof wof; wf wooof wf woof wooof."




"They tell me, sir, that Stubb did once desert poor little Pip, whose
"Woof woof wf, wof, woof Wooof wof woof woooof woof woooof Wof, wooof

drowned bones now show white, for all the blackness of his living skin.
wooooof wooof wof woof wooof, wof wof wof wooooooof wf wof woooof woof.

But I will never desert ye, sir, as Stubb did him. Sir, I must go with
Wof W woof wooof woooof wf, wof, wf Wooof wof wof. Wof, W woof wf woof

ye."
wf."




"If thou speakest thus to me much more, Ahab's purpose keels up in him.
"Wf woof woooooof woof wf wf woof woof, Woof'w wooooof wooof wf wf wof.

I tell thee no; it cannot be."
W woof woof wf; wf woooof wf."




"Oh good master, master, master!
"Wf woof woooof, woooof, woooof!




"Weep so, and I will murder thee! have a care, for Ahab too is mad.
"Woof wf, wof W woof woooof woof! woof w woof, wof Woof wof wf wof.

Listen, and thou wilt often hear my ivory foot upon the deck, and still
Woooof, wof woof woof wooof woof wf wooof woof woof wof woof, wof wooof

know that I am there. And now I quit thee. Thy hand!--Met! True art
woof woof W wf wooof. Wof wof W woof woof. Wof woof!--Wof! Woof wof

thou, lad, as the circumference to its centre. So: God for ever bless
woof, wof, wf wof wooooooooooof wf wof woooof. Wf: Wof wof woof wooof

thee; and if it come to that,--God for ever save thee, let what will
woof; wof wf wf woof wf woof,--Wof wof woof woof woof, wof woof woof

befall."
woooof."




(AHAB GOES; PIP STEPS ONE STEP FORWARD.)
(WOOF WOOF; WOF WOOOF WOF WOOF WOOOOOF.)







"Here he this instant stood; I stand in his air,--but I'm alone. Now
"Woof wf woof wooooof wooof; W wooof wf wof wof,--wof W'w wooof. Wof

were even poor Pip here I could endure it, but he's missing. Pip! Pip!
woof woof woof Wof woof W wooof woooof wf, wof wf'w wooooof. Wof! Wof!

Ding, dong, ding! Who's seen Pip? He must be up here; let's try the
Woof, woof, woof! Wof'w woof Wof? Wf woof wf wf woof; wof'w wof wof

door. What? neither lock, nor bolt, nor bar; and yet there's no opening
woof. Woof? wooooof woof, wof woof, wof wof; wof wof wooof'w wf wooooof

it. It must be the spell; he told me to stay here: Aye, and told me this
wf. Wf woof wf wof wooof; wf woof wf wf woof woof: Wof, wof woof wf woof

screwed chair was mine. Here, then, I'll seat me, against the transom,
wooooof wooof wof woof. Woof, woof, W'wf woof wf, wooooof wof wooooof,

in the ship's full middle, all her keel and her three masts before me.
wf wof woof'w woof woooof, wof wof woof wof wof wooof wooof woooof wf.

Here, our old sailors say, in their black seventy-fours great
Woof, wof wof wooooof wof, wf wooof wooof wooooof-wooof wooof

admirals sometimes sit at table, and lord it over rows of captains and
woooooof wooooooof wof wf wooof, wof woof wf woof woof wf woooooof wof

lieutenants. Ha! what's this? epaulets! epaulets! the epaulets all come
wooooooooof. Wf! woof'w woof? woooooof! woooooof! wof woooooof wof woof

crowding! Pass round the decanters; glad to see ye; fill up, monsieurs!
woooooof! Woof wooof wof wooooooof; woof wf wof wf; woof wf, wooooooof!

What an odd feeling, now, when a black boy's host to white men with gold
Woof wf wof wooooof, wof, woof w wooof wof'w woof wf wooof wof woof woof

lace upon their coats!--Monsieurs, have ye seen one Pip?--a little
woof woof wooof wooof!--Wooooooof, woof wf woof wof Wof?--w woooof

negro lad, five feet high, hang-dog look, and cowardly! Jumped from a
wooof wof, woof woof woof, woof-wof woof, wof woooooof! Woooof woof w

whale-boat once;--seen him? No! Well then, fill up again, captains, and
wooof-woof woof;--woof wof? Wf! Woof woof, woof wf wooof, woooooof, wof

let's drink shame upon all cowards! I name no names. Shame upon them!
wof'w wooof wooof woof wof wooooof! W woof wf wooof. Wooof woof woof!

Put one foot upon the table. Shame upon all cowards.--Hist! above there,
Wof wof woof woof wof wooof. Wooof woof wof wooooof.--Woof! wooof wooof,

I hear ivory--Oh, master! master! I am indeed down-hearted when you walk
W woof wooof--Wf, woooof! woooof! W wf woooof woof-wooooof woof wof woof

over me. But here I'll stay, though this stern strikes rocks; and they
woof wf. Wof woof W'wf woof, woooof woof wooof wooooof wooof; wof woof

bulge through; and oysters come to join me."
wooof wooooof; wof wooooof woof wf woof wf."










CHAPTER 130. The Hat.
WOOOOOF wof. Wof Wof.







And now that at the proper time and place, after so long and wide a
Wof wof woof wf wof woooof woof wof wooof, wooof wf woof wof woof w

preliminary cruise, Ahab,--all other whaling waters swept--seemed to
wooooooooof woooof, Woof,--wof wooof wooooof woooof wooof--woooof wf

have chased his foe into an ocean-fold, to slay him the more securely
woof woooof wof wof woof wf wooof-woof, wf woof wof wof woof woooooof

there; now, that he found himself hard by the very latitude and
wooof; wof, woof wf wooof wooooof woof wf wof woof woooooof wof

longitude where his tormenting wound had been inflicted; now that a
wooooooof wooof wof woooooooof wooof wof woof wooooooof; wof woof w

vessel had been spoken which on the very day preceding had actually
woooof wof woof woooof wooof wf wof woof wof wooooooof wof woooooof

encountered Moby Dick;--and now that all his successive meetings with
wooooooooof Woof Woof;--wof wof woof wof wof woooooooof woooooof woof

various ships contrastingly concurred to show the demoniac indifference
wooooof wooof wooooooooooof wooooooof wf woof wof woooooof woooooooooof

with which the white whale tore his hunters, whether sinning or sinned
woof wooof wof wooof wooof woof wof wooooof, wooooof wooooof wf woooof

against; now it was that there lurked a something in the old man's eyes,
wooooof; wof wf wof woof wooof woooof w wooooooof wf wof wof wof'w woof,

which it was hardly sufferable for feeble souls to see. As the unsetting
wooof wf wof woooof woooooooof wof woooof wooof wf wof. Wf wof wooooooof

polar star, which through the livelong, arctic, six months' night
wooof woof, wooof wooooof wof woooooof, woooof, wof woooof' wooof

sustains its piercing, steady, central gaze; so Ahab's purpose now
woooooof wof woooooof, woooof, wooooof woof; wf Woof'w wooooof wof

fixedly gleamed down upon the constant midnight of the gloomy crew. It
wooooof wooooof woof woof wof woooooof woooooof wf wof woooof woof. Wf

domineered above them so, that all their bodings, doubts, misgivings,
woooooooof wooof woof wf, woof wof wooof wooooof, woooof, woooooooof,

fears, were fain to hide beneath their souls, and not sprout forth a
wooof, woof woof wf woof wooooof wooof wooof, wof wof woooof wooof w

single spear or leaf.
woooof wooof wf woof.




In this foreshadowing interval too, all humor, forced or natural,
Wf woof wooooooooooof woooooof wof, wof wooof, woooof wf wooooof,

vanished. Stubb no more strove to raise a smile; Starbuck no more strove
woooooof. Wooof wf woof woooof wf wooof w wooof; Woooooof wf woof woooof

to check one. Alike, joy and sorrow, hope and fear, seemed ground to
wf wooof wof. Wooof, wof wof woooof, woof wof woof, woooof woooof wf

finest dust, and powdered, for the time, in the clamped mortar of
woooof woof, wof woooooof, wof wof woof, wf wof wooooof woooof wf

Ahab's iron soul. Like machines, they dumbly moved about the deck, ever
Woof'w woof woof. Woof woooooof, woof woooof wooof wooof wof woof, woof

conscious that the old man's despot eye was on them.
wooooooof woof wof wof wof'w woooof wof wof wf woof.




But did you deeply scan him in his more secret confidential hours; when
Wof wof wof woooof woof wof wf wof woof woooof woooooooooof wooof; woof

he thought no glance but one was on him; then you would have seen that
wf wooooof wf woooof wof wof wof wf wof; woof wof wooof woof woof woof

even as Ahab's eyes so awed the crew's, the inscrutable Parsee's glance
woof wf Woof'w woof wf woof wof woof'w, wof wooooooooof Woooof'w woooof

awed his; or somehow, at least, in some wild way, at times affected it.
woof wof; wf wooooof, wf wooof, wf woof woof wof, wf wooof woooooof wf.

Such an added, gliding strangeness began to invest the thin Fedallah
Woof wf wooof, wooooof wooooooooof wooof wf woooof wof woof Woooooof

now; such ceaseless shudderings shook him; that the men looked dubious
wof; woof wooooooof wooooooooof wooof wof; woof wof wof woooof wooooof

at him; half uncertain, as it seemed, whether indeed he were a mortal
wf wof; woof wooooooof, wf wf woooof, wooooof woooof wf woof w woooof

substance, or else a tremulous shadow cast upon the deck by some unseen
wooooooof, wf woof w wooooooof woooof woof woof wof woof wf woof woooof

being's body. And that shadow was always hovering there. For not by
wooof'w woof. Wof woof woooof wof woooof woooooof wooof. Wof wof wf

night, even, had Fedallah ever certainly been known to slumber, or go
wooof, woof, wof Woooooof woof wooooooof woof wooof wf wooooof, wf wf

below. He would stand still for hours: but never sat or leaned; his wan
wooof. Wf wooof wooof wooof wof wooof: wof wooof wof wf woooof; wof wof

but wondrous eyes did plainly say--We two watchmen never rest.
wof woooooof woof wof wooooof wof--Wf wof woooooof wooof woof.




Nor, at any time, by night or day could the mariners now step upon the
Wof, wf wof woof, wf wooof wf wof wooof wof woooooof wof woof woof wof

deck, unless Ahab was before them; either standing in his pivot-hole, or
woof, woooof Woof wof woooof woof; woooof woooooof wf wof wooof-woof, wf

exactly pacing the planks between two undeviating limits,--the main-mast
wooooof woooof wof woooof wooooof wof wooooooooof woooof,--wof woof-woof

and the mizen; or else they saw him standing in the cabin-scuttle,--his
wof wof wooof; wf woof woof wof wof woooooof wf wof wooof-wooooof,--wof

living foot advanced upon the deck, as if to step; his hat slouched
woooof woof woooooof woof wof woof, wf wf wf woof; wof wof woooooof

heavily over his eyes; so that however motionless he stood, however the
wooooof woof wof woof; wf woof wooooof woooooooof wf wooof, wooooof wof

days and nights were added on, that he had not swung in his hammock;
woof wof woooof woof wooof wf, woof wf wof wof wooof wf wof wooooof;

yet hidden beneath that slouching hat, they could never tell unerringly
wof woooof wooooof woof wooooooof wof, woof wooof wooof woof woooooooof

whether, for all this, his eyes were really closed at times; or whether
wooooof, wof wof woof, wof woof woof woooof woooof wf wooof; wf wooooof

he was still intently scanning them; no matter, though he stood so in
wf wof wooof woooooof woooooof woof; wf woooof, woooof wf wooof wf wf

the scuttle for a whole hour on the stretch, and the unheeded night-damp
wof wooooof wof w wooof woof wf wof wooooof, wof wof woooooof wooof-woof

gathered in beads of dew upon that stone-carved coat and hat. The
woooooof wf wooof wf wof woof woof wooof-woooof woof wof wof. Wof

clothes that the night had wet, the next day's sunshine dried upon him;
wooooof woof wof wooof wof wof, wof woof wof'w woooooof wooof woof wof;

and so, day after day, and night after night; he went no more beneath
wof wf, wof wooof wof, wof wooof wooof wooof; wf woof wf woof wooooof

the planks; whatever he wanted from the cabin that thing he sent for.
wof woooof; woooooof wf woooof woof wof wooof woof wooof wf woof wof.




He ate in the same open air; that is, his two only meals,--breakfast and
Wf wof wf wof woof woof wof; woof wf, wof wof woof wooof,--wooooooof wof

dinner: supper he never touched; nor reaped his beard; which darkly grew
woooof: woooof wf wooof wooooof; wof woooof wof wooof; wooof woooof woof

all gnarled, as unearthed roots of trees blown over, which still grow
wof wooooof, wf wooooooof wooof wf wooof wooof woof, wooof wooof woof

idly on at naked base, though perished in the upper verdure. But though
woof wf wf wooof woof, woooof woooooof wf wof wooof wooooof. Wof woooof

his whole life was now become one watch on deck; and though the Parsee's
wof wooof woof wof wof woooof wof wooof wf woof; wof woooof wof Woooof'w

mystic watch was without intermission as his own; yet these two never
woooof wooof wof wooooof woooooooooof wf wof wof; wof wooof wof wooof

seemed to speak--one man to the other--unless at long intervals some
woooof wf wooof--wof wof wf wof wooof--woooof wf woof wooooooof woof

passing unmomentous matter made it necessary. Though such a potent spell
wooooof wooooooooof woooof woof wf wooooooof. Woooof woof w woooof wooof

seemed secretly to join the twain; openly, and to the awe-struck crew,
woooof woooooof wf woof wof wooof; woooof, wof wf wof wof-woooof woof,

they seemed pole-like asunder. If by day they chanced to speak one word;
woof woooof woof-woof wooooof. Wf wf wof woof wooooof wf wooof wof woof;

by night, dumb men were both, so far as concerned the slightest verbal
wf wooof, woof wof woof woof, wf wof wf wooooooof wof wooooooof woooof

interchange. At times, for longest hours, without a single hail, they
wooooooooof. Wf wooof, wof wooooof wooof, wooooof w woooof woof, woof

stood far parted in the starlight; Ahab in his scuttle, the Parsee by
wooof wof woooof wf wof wooooooof; Woof wf wof wooooof, wof Woooof wf

the mainmast; but still fixedly gazing upon each other; as if in the
wof woooooof; wof wooof wooooof woooof woof woof wooof; wf wf wf wof

Parsee Ahab saw his forethrown shadow, in Ahab the Parsee his abandoned
Woooof Woof wof wof woooooooof woooof, wf Woof wof Woooof wof wooooooof

substance.
wooooooof.




And yet, somehow, did Ahab--in his own proper self, as daily, hourly,
Wof wof, wooooof, wof Woof--wf wof wof woooof woof, wf wooof, woooof,

and every instant, commandingly revealed to his subordinates,--Ahab
wof wooof wooooof, woooooooooof woooooof wf wof woooooooooof,--Woof

seemed an independent lord; the Parsee but his slave. Still again both
woooof wf wooooooooof woof; wof Woooof wof wof wooof. Wooof wooof woof

seemed yoked together, and an unseen tyrant driving them; the lean shade
woooof wooof woooooof, wof wf woooof woooof wooooof woof; wof woof wooof

siding the solid rib. For be this Parsee what he may, all rib and keel
woooof wof wooof wof. Wof wf woof Woooof woof wf wof, wof wof wof woof

was solid Ahab.
wof wooof Woof.




At the first faintest glimmering of the dawn, his iron voice was heard
Wf wof wooof woooooof woooooooof wf wof woof, wof woof wooof wof wooof

from aft,--"Man the mast-heads!"--and all through the day, till after
woof wof,--"Wof wof woof-wooof!"--wof wof wooooof wof wof, woof wooof

sunset and after twilight, the same voice every hour, at the striking of
woooof wof wooof woooooof, wof woof wooof wooof woof, wf wof woooooof wf

the helmsman's bell, was heard--"What d'ye see?--sharp! sharp!"
wof woooooof'w woof, wof wooof--"Woof w'wf wof?--wooof! wooof!"




But when three or four days had slided by, after meeting the
Wof woof wooof wf woof woof wof woooof wf, wooof wooooof wof

children-seeking Rachel; and no spout had yet been seen; the monomaniac
woooooof-wooooof Woooof; wof wf wooof wof wof woof woof; wof woooooooof

old man seemed distrustful of his crew's fidelity; at least, of nearly
wof wof woooof wooooooooof wf wof woof'w woooooof; wf wooof, wf woooof

all except the Pagan harpooneers; he seemed to doubt, even, whether
wof woooof wof Wooof wooooooooof; wf woooof wf wooof, woof, wooooof

Stubb and Flask might not willingly overlook the sight he sought. But if
Wooof wof Wooof wooof wof wooooooof woooooof wof wooof wf woooof. Wof wf

these suspicions were really his, he sagaciously refrained from verbally
wooof woooooooof woof woooof wof, wf wooooooooof wooooooof woof woooooof

expressing them, however his actions might seem to hint them.
woooooooof woof, wooooof wof wooooof wooof woof wf woof woof.




"I will have the first sight of the whale myself,"--he said. "Aye!
"W woof woof wof wooof wooof wf wof wooof woooof,"--wf woof. "Wof!

Ahab must have the doubloon! and with his own hands he rigged a nest
Woof woof woof wof woooooof! wof woof wof wof wooof wf woooof w woof

of basketed bowlines; and sending a hand aloft, with a single sheaved
wf woooooof woooooof; wof wooooof w woof wooof, woof w woooof wooooof

block, to secure to the main-mast head, he received the two ends of the
wooof, wf woooof wf wof woof-woof woof, wf woooooof wof wof woof wf wof

downward-reeved rope; and attaching one to his basket prepared a pin for
woooooof-woooof woof; wof wooooooof wof wf wof woooof woooooof w wof wof

the other end, in order to fasten it at the rail. This done, with that
wof wooof wof, wf wooof wf woooof wf wf wof woof. Woof woof, woof woof

end yet in his hand and standing beside the pin, he looked round upon
wof wof wf wof woof wof woooooof woooof wof wof, wf woooof wooof woof

his crew, sweeping from one to the other; pausing his glance long upon
wof woof, woooooof woof wof wf wof wooof; wooooof wof woooof woof woof

Daggoo, Queequeg, Tashtego; but shunning Fedallah; and then settling his
Woooof, Woooooof, Woooooof; wof woooooof Woooooof; wof woof woooooof wof

firm relying eye upon the chief mate, said,--"Take the rope, sir--I give
woof wooooof wof woof wof wooof woof, woof,--"Woof wof woof, wof--W woof

it into thy hands, Starbuck." Then arranging his person in the basket,
wf woof wof wooof, Woooooof." Woof wooooooof wof woooof wf wof woooof,

he gave the word for them to hoist him to his perch, Starbuck being
wf woof wof woof wof woof wf wooof wof wf wof wooof, Woooooof wooof

the one who secured the rope at last; and afterwards stood near it. And
wof wof wof wooooof wof woof wf woof; wof woooooooof wooof woof wf. Wof

thus, with one hand clinging round the royal mast, Ahab gazed abroad
woof, woof wof woof woooooof wooof wof wooof woof, Woof wooof woooof

upon the sea for miles and miles,--ahead, astern, this side, and
woof wof wof wof wooof wof wooof,--wooof, woooof, woof woof, wof

that,--within the wide expanded circle commanded at so great a height.
woof,--woooof wof woof woooooof woooof wooooooof wf wf wooof w woooof.




When in working with his hands at some lofty almost isolated place in
Woof wf wooooof woof wof wooof wf woof wooof woooof woooooof wooof wf

the rigging, which chances to afford no foothold, the sailor at sea is
wof wooooof, wooof wooooof wf woooof wf woooooof, wof woooof wf wof wf

hoisted up to that spot, and sustained there by the rope; under these
wooooof wf wf woof woof, wof wooooooof wooof wf wof woof; wooof wooof

circumstances, its fastened end on deck is always given in strict charge
wooooooooooof, wof woooooof wof wf woof wf woooof wooof wf woooof woooof

to some one man who has the special watch of it. Because in such a
wf woof wof wof wof wof wof wooooof wooof wf wf. Wooooof wf woof w

wilderness of running rigging, whose various different relations aloft
woooooooof wf wooooof wooooof, wooof wooooof wooooooof wooooooof wooof

cannot always be infallibly discerned by what is seen of them at the
woooof woooof wf woooooooof wooooooof wf woof wf woof wf woof wf wof

deck; and when the deck-ends of these ropes are being every few minutes
woof; wof woof wof woof-woof wf wooof wooof wof wooof wooof wof wooooof

cast down from the fastenings, it would be but a natural fatality, if,
woof woof woof wof woooooooof, wf wooof wf wof w wooooof woooooof, wf,

unprovided with a constant watchman, the hoisted sailor should by some
woooooooof woof w woooooof woooooof, wof wooooof woooof woooof wf woof

carelessness of the crew be cast adrift and fall all swooping to the
woooooooooof wf wof woof wf woof woooof wof woof wof woooooof wf wof

sea. So Ahab's proceedings in this matter were not unusual; the only
wof. Wf Woof'w wooooooooof wf woof woooof woof wof wooooof; wof woof

strange thing about them seemed to be, that Starbuck, almost the one
wooooof wooof wooof woof woooof wf wf, woof Woooooof, woooof wof wof

only man who had ever ventured to oppose him with anything in the
woof wof wof wof woof woooooof wf woooof wof woof woooooof wf wof

slightest degree approaching to decision--one of those too, whose
wooooooof woooof wooooooooof wf woooooof--wof wf wooof wof, wooof

faithfulness on the look-out he had seemed to doubt somewhat;--it was
woooooooooof wf wof woof-wof wf wof woooof wf wooof woooooof;--wf wof

strange, that this was the very man he should select for his watchman;
wooooof, woof woof wof wof woof wof wf woooof woooof wof wof woooooof;

freely giving his whole life into such an otherwise distrusted person's
woooof woooof wof wooof woof woof woof wf wooooooof woooooooof woooof'w

hands.
wooof.




Now, the first time Ahab was perched aloft; ere he had been there ten
Wof, wof wooof woof Woof wof wooooof wooof; wof wf wof woof wooof wof

minutes; one of those red-billed savage sea-hawks which so often fly
wooooof; wof wf wooof wof-woooof woooof wof-wooof wooof wf wooof wof

incommodiously close round the manned mast-heads of whalemen in these
woooooooooooof wooof wooof wof woooof woof-wooof wf woooooof wf wooof

latitudes; one of these birds came wheeling and screaming round his head
wooooooof; wof wf wooof wooof woof woooooof wof wooooooof wooof wof woof

in a maze of untrackably swift circlings. Then it darted a thousand feet
wf w woof wf wooooooooof wooof wooooooof. Woof wf woooof w woooooof woof

straight up into the air; then spiralized downwards, and went eddying
woooooof wf woof wof wof; woof woooooooof wooooooof, wof woof wooooof

again round his head.
wooof wooof wof woof.




But with his gaze fixed upon the dim and distant horizon, Ahab seemed
Wof woof wof woof wooof woof wof wof wof wooooof wooooof, Woof woooof

not to mark this wild bird; nor, indeed, would any one else have marked
wof wf woof woof woof woof; wof, woooof, wooof wof wof woof woof woooof

it much, it being no uncommon circumstance; only now almost the least
wf woof, wf wooof wf woooooof woooooooooof; woof wof woooof wof wooof

heedful eye seemed to see some sort of cunning meaning in almost every
wooooof wof woooof wf wof woof woof wf wooooof wooooof wf woooof wooof

sight.
wooof.




"Your hat, your hat, sir!" suddenly cried the Sicilian seaman, who
"Woof wof, woof wof, wof!" woooooof wooof wof Woooooof woooof, wof

being posted at the mizen-mast-head, stood directly behind Ahab, though
wooof woooof wf wof wooof-woof-woof, wooof woooooof woooof Woof, woooof

somewhat lower than his level, and with a deep gulf of air dividing
woooooof wooof woof wof wooof, wof woof w woof woof wf wof woooooof

them.
woof.




But already the sable wing was before the old man's eyes; the long
Wof wooooof wof wooof woof wof woooof wof wof wof'w woof; wof woof

hooked bill at his head: with a scream, the black hawk darted away with
woooof woof wf wof woof: woof w woooof, wof wooof woof woooof woof woof

his prize.
wof wooof.




An eagle flew thrice round Tarquin's head, removing his cap to replace
Wf wooof woof woooof wooof Wooooof'w woof, woooooof wof wof wf wooooof

it, and thereupon Tanaquil, his wife, declared that Tarquin would
wf, wof wooooooof Woooooof, wof woof, woooooof woof Wooooof wooof

be king of Rome. But only by the replacing of the cap was that omen
wf woof wf Woof. Wof woof wf wof wooooooof wf wof wof wof woof woof

accounted good. Ahab's hat was never restored; the wild hawk flew on and
wooooooof woof. Woof'w wof wof wooof woooooof; wof woof woof woof wf wof

on with it; far in advance of the prow: and at last disappeared; while
wf woof wf; wof wf wooooof wf wof woof: wof wf woof wooooooooof; wooof

from the point of that disappearance, a minute black spot was dimly
woof wof wooof wf woof wooooooooooof, w woooof wooof woof wof wooof

discerned, falling from that vast height into the sea.
wooooooof, wooooof woof woof woof woooof woof wof wof.










CHAPTER 131. The Pequod Meets The Delight.
WOOOOOF wof. Wof Woooof Wooof Wof Wooooof.







The intense Pequod sailed on; the rolling waves and days went by; the
Wof wooooof Woooof woooof wf; wof wooooof wooof wof woof woof wf; wof

life-buoy-coffin still lightly swung; and another ship, most miserably
woof-woof-woooof wooof wooooof wooof; wof wooooof woof, woof wooooooof

misnamed the Delight, was descried. As she drew nigh, all eyes were
woooooof wof Wooooof, wof woooooof. Wf wof woof woof, wof woof woof

fixed upon her broad beams, called shears, which, in some whaling-ships,
wooof woof wof wooof wooof, woooof woooof, wooof, wf woof wooooof-wooof,

cross the quarter-deck at the height of eight or nine feet; serving to
wooof wof wooooof-woof wf wof woooof wf wooof wf woof woof; wooooof wf

carry the spare, unrigged, or disabled boats.
wooof wof wooof, woooooof, wf woooooof wooof.




Upon the stranger's shears were beheld the shattered, white ribs, and
Woof wof woooooof'w woooof woof woooof wof wooooooof, wooof woof, wof

some few splintered planks, of what had once been a whale-boat; but you
woof wof woooooooof woooof, wf woof wof woof woof w wooof-woof; wof wof

now saw through this wreck, as plainly as you see through the peeled,
wof wof wooooof woof wooof, wf wooooof wf wof wof wooooof wof woooof,

half-unhinged, and bleaching skeleton of a horse.
woof-woooooof, wof wooooooof woooooof wf w wooof.




"Hast seen the White Whale?"
"Woof woof wof Wooof Wooof?"




"Look!" replied the hollow-cheeked captain from his taffrail; and with
"Woof!" wooooof wof woooof-wooooof wooooof woof wof woooooof; wof woof

his trumpet he pointed to the wreck.
wof wooooof wf wooooof wf wof wooof.




"Hast killed him?"
"Woof woooof wof?"




"The harpoon is not yet forged that ever will do that," answered the
"Wof wooooof wf wof wof woooof woof woof woof wf woof," woooooof wof

other, sadly glancing upon a rounded hammock on the deck, whose gathered
wooof, wooof woooooof woof w wooooof wooooof wf wof woof, wooof woooooof

sides some noiseless sailors were busy in sewing together.
wooof woof wooooooof wooooof woof woof wf woooof woooooof.




"Not forged!" and snatching Perth's levelled iron from the crotch, Ahab
"Wof woooof!" wof wooooooof Wooof'w woooooof woof woof wof woooof, Woof

held it out, exclaiming--"Look ye, Nantucketer; here in this hand I hold
woof wf wof, woooooooof--"Woof wf, Wooooooooof; woof wf woof woof W woof

his death! Tempered in blood, and tempered by lightning are these barbs;
wof wooof! Woooooof wf wooof, wof woooooof wf wooooooof wof wooof wooof;

and I swear to temper them triply in that hot place behind the fin,
wof W wooof wf woooof woof woooof wf woof wof wooof woooof wof wof,

where the White Whale most feels his accursed life!"
wooof wof Wooof Wooof woof wooof wof woooooof woof!"




"Then God keep thee, old man--see'st thou that"--pointing to the
"Woof Wof woof woof, wof wof--wof'wf woof woof"--woooooof wf wof

hammock--"I bury but one of five stout men, who were alive only
wooooof--"W woof wof wof wf woof wooof wof, wof woof wooof woof

yesterday; but were dead ere night. Only THAT one I bury; the rest were
wooooooof; wof woof woof wof wooof. Woof WOOF wof W woof; wof woof woof

buried before they died; you sail upon their tomb." Then turning to his
woooof woooof woof woof; wof woof woof wooof woof." Woof wooooof wf wof

crew--"Are ye ready there? place the plank then on the rail, and
woof--"Wof wf wooof wooof? wooof wof wooof woof wf wof woof, wof

lift the body; so, then--Oh! God"--advancing towards the hammock with
woof wof woof; wf, woof--Wf! Wof"--wooooooof wooooof wof wooooof woof

uplifted hands--"may the resurrection and the life--"
woooooof wooof--"wof wof woooooooooof wof wof woof--"




"Brace forward! Up helm!" cried Ahab like lightning to his men.
"Wooof wooooof! Wf woof!" wooof Woof woof wooooooof wf wof wof.




But the suddenly started Pequod was not quick enough to escape the sound
Wof wof woooooof wooooof Woooof wof wof wooof woooof wf woooof wof wooof

of the splash that the corpse soon made as it struck the sea; not so
wf wof woooof woof wof woooof woof woof wf wf woooof wof wof; wof wf

quick, indeed, but that some of the flying bubbles might have sprinkled
wooof, woooof, wof woof woof wf wof woooof wooooof wooof woof wooooooof

her hull with their ghostly baptism.
wof woof woof wooof wooooof wooooof.




As Ahab now glided from the dejected Delight, the strange life-buoy
Wf Woof wof woooof woof wof woooooof Wooooof, wof wooooof woof-woof

hanging at the Pequod's stern came into conspicuous relief.
wooooof wf wof Woooof'w wooof woof woof wooooooooof woooof.




"Ha! yonder! look yonder, men!" cried a foreboding voice in her wake.
"Wf! woooof! woof woooof, wof!" wooof w woooooooof wooof wf wof woof.

"In vain, oh, ye strangers, ye fly our sad burial; ye but turn us your
"Wf woof, wf, wf wooooooof, wf wof wof wof woooof; wf wof woof wf woof

taffrail to show us your coffin!"
woooooof wf woof wf woof woooof!"










CHAPTER 132. The Symphony.
WOOOOOF wof. Wof Woooooof.







It was a clear steel-blue day. The firmaments of air and sea were
Wf wof w wooof wooof-woof wof. Wof woooooooof wf wof wof wof woof

hardly separable in that all-pervading azure; only, the pensive air was
woooof wooooooof wf woof wof-wooooooof wooof; woof, wof wooooof wof wof

transparently pure and soft, with a woman's look, and the robust and
wooooooooooof woof wof woof, woof w wooof'w woof, wof wof woooof wof

man-like sea heaved with long, strong, lingering swells, as Samson's
wof-woof wof woooof woof woof, woooof, wooooooof woooof, wf Woooof'w

chest in his sleep.
wooof wf wof wooof.




Hither, and thither, on high, glided the snow-white wings of small,
Woooof, wof wooooof, wf woof, woooof wof woof-wooof wooof wf wooof,

unspeckled birds; these were the gentle thoughts of the feminine air;
woooooooof wooof; wooof woof wof woooof woooooof wf wof woooooof wof;

but to and fro in the deeps, far down in the bottomless blue, rushed
wof wf wof wof wf wof wooof, wof woof wf wof woooooooof woof, woooof

mighty leviathans, sword-fish, and sharks; and these were the strong,
woooof woooooooof, wooof-woof, wof woooof; wof wooof woof wof woooof,

troubled, murderous thinkings of the masculine sea.
woooooof, wooooooof wooooooof wf wof wooooooof wof.




But though thus contrasting within, the contrast was only in shades and
Wof woooof woof wooooooooof woooof, wof woooooof wof woof wf woooof wof

shadows without; those two seemed one; it was only the sex, as it were,
wooooof wooooof; wooof wof woooof wof; wf wof woof wof wof, wf wf woof,

that distinguished them.
woof wooooooooooof woof.




Aloft, like a royal czar and king, the sun seemed giving this gentle
Wooof, woof w wooof woof wof woof, wof wof woooof woooof woof woooof

air to this bold and rolling sea; even as bride to groom. And at the
wof wf woof woof wof wooooof wof; woof wf wooof wf wooof. Wof wf wof

girdling line of the horizon, a soft and tremulous motion--most seen
woooooof woof wf wof wooooof, w woof wof wooooooof woooof--woof woof

here at the Equator--denoted the fond, throbbing trust, the loving
woof wf wof Wooooof--wooooof wof woof, wooooooof wooof, wof woooof

alarms, with which the poor bride gave her bosom away.
woooof, woof wooof wof woof wooof woof wof wooof woof.




Tied up and twisted; gnarled and knotted with wrinkles; haggardly firm
Woof wf wof wooooof; wooooof wof wooooof woof woooooof; wooooooof woof

and unyielding; his eyes glowing like coals, that still glow in the
wof woooooooof; wof woof wooooof woof wooof, woof wooof woof wf wof

ashes of ruin; untottering Ahab stood forth in the clearness of the
wooof wf woof; wooooooooof Woof wooof wooof wf wof wooooooof wf wof

morn; lifting his splintered helmet of a brow to the fair girl's
woof; wooooof wof woooooooof woooof wf w woof wf wof woof woof'w

forehead of heaven.
woooooof wf woooof.




Oh, immortal infancy, and innocency of the azure! Invisible winged
Wf, woooooof wooooof, wof wooooooof wf wof wooof! Wooooooof woooof

creatures that frolic all round us! Sweet childhood of air and sky! how
wooooooof woof woooof wof wooof wf! Wooof wooooooof wf wof wof wof! wof

oblivious were ye of old Ahab's close-coiled woe! But so have I seen
wooooooof woof wf wf wof Woof'w wooof-woooof wof! Wof wf woof W woof

little Miriam and Martha, laughing-eyed elves, heedlessly gambol around
woooof Woooof wof Woooof, woooooof-woof wooof, woooooooof woooof woooof

their old sire; sporting with the circle of singed locks which grew on
wooof wof woof; woooooof woof wof woooof wf woooof wooof wooof woof wf

the marge of that burnt-out crater of his brain.
wof wooof wf woof wooof-wof woooof wf wof wooof.




Slowly crossing the deck from the scuttle, Ahab leaned over the side and
Woooof woooooof wof woof woof wof wooooof, Woof woooof woof wof woof wof

watched how his shadow in the water sank and sank to his gaze, the more
wooooof wof wof woooof wf wof wooof woof wof woof wf wof woof, wof woof

and the more that he strove to pierce the profundity. But the lovely
wof wof woof woof wf woooof wf woooof wof woooooooof. Wof wof woooof

aromas in that enchanted air did at last seem to dispel, for a moment,
woooof wf woof wooooooof wof wof wf woof woof wf woooof, wof w woooof,

the cankerous thing in his soul. That glad, happy air, that winsome
wof wooooooof wooof wf wof woof. Woof woof, wooof wof, woof wooooof

sky, did at last stroke and caress him; the step-mother world, so long
wof, wof wf woof woooof wof woooof wof; wof woof-woooof wooof, wf woof

cruel--forbidding--now threw affectionate arms round his stubborn neck,
wooof--woooooooof--wof wooof woooooooooof woof wooof wof woooooof woof,

and did seem to joyously sob over him, as if over one, that however
wof wof woof wf woooooof wof woof wof, wf wf woof wof, woof wooooof

wilful and erring, she could yet find it in her heart to save and to
woooof wof woooof, wof wooof wof woof wf wf wof wooof wf woof wof wf

bless. From beneath his slouched hat Ahab dropped a tear into the sea;
wooof. Woof wooooof wof woooooof wof Woof wooooof w woof woof wof wof;

nor did all the Pacific contain such wealth as that one wee drop.
wof wof wof wof Wooooof wooooof woof woooof wf woof wof wof woof.




Starbuck saw the old man; saw him, how he heavily leaned over the side;
Woooooof wof wof wof wof; wof wof, wof wf wooooof woooof woof wof woof;

and he seemed to hear in his own true heart the measureless sobbing that
wof wf woooof wf woof wf wof wof woof wooof wof wooooooooof wooooof woof

stole out of the centre of the serenity around. Careful not to touch
wooof wof wf wof woooof wf wof woooooof woooof. Wooooof wof wf wooof

him, or be noticed by him, he yet drew near to him, and stood there.
wof, wf wf wooooof wf wof, wf wof woof woof wf wof, wof wooof wooof.




Ahab turned.
Woof woooof.




"Starbuck!"
"Woooooof!"




"Sir."
"Wof."




"Oh, Starbuck! it is a mild, mild wind, and a mild looking sky. On such
"Wf, Woooooof! wf wf w woof, woof woof, wof w woof wooooof wof. Wf woof

a day--very much such a sweetness as this--I struck my first whale--a
w wof--woof woof woof w wooooooof wf woof--W woooof wf wooof wooof--w

boy-harpooneer of eighteen! Forty--forty--forty years ago!--ago! Forty
wof-woooooooof wf woooooof! Wooof--wooof--wooof wooof wof!--wof! Wooof

years of continual whaling! forty years of privation, and peril, and
wooof wf wooooooof wooooof! wooof wooof wf wooooooof, wof wooof, wof

storm-time! forty years on the pitiless sea! for forty years has Ahab
wooof-woof! wooof wooof wf wof woooooof wof! wof wooof wooof wof Woof

forsaken the peaceful land, for forty years to make war on the horrors
woooooof wof woooooof woof, wof wooof wooof wf woof wof wf wof wooooof

of the deep! Aye and yes, Starbuck, out of those forty years I have not
wf wof woof! Wof wof wof, Woooooof, wof wf wooof wooof wooof W woof wof

spent three ashore. When I think of this life I have led; the desolation
wooof wooof woooof. Woof W wooof wf woof woof W woof wof; wof woooooooof

of solitude it has been; the masoned, walled-town of a Captain's
wf woooooof wf wof woof; wof wooooof, woooof-woof wf w Wooooof'w

exclusiveness, which admits but small entrance to any sympathy from the
wooooooooooof, wooof woooof wof wooof woooooof wf wof woooooof woof wof

green country without--oh, weariness! heaviness! Guinea-coast slavery of
wooof wooooof wooooof--wf, wooooooof! wooooooof! Woooof-wooof wooooof wf

solitary command!--when I think of all this; only half-suspected, not so
woooooof wooooof!--woof W wooof wf wof woof; woof woof-wooooooof, wof wf

keenly known to me before--and how for forty years I have fed upon dry
woooof wooof wf wf woooof--wof wof wof wooof wooof W woof wof woof wof

salted fare--fit emblem of the dry nourishment of my soil!--when the
woooof woof--wof woooof wf wof wof wooooooooof wf wf woof!--woof wof

poorest landsman has had fresh fruit to his daily hand, and broken the
wooooof woooooof wof wof wooof wooof wf wof wooof woof, wof woooof wof

world's fresh bread to my mouldy crusts--away, whole oceans away, from
wooof'w wooof wooof wf wf woooof woooof--woof, wooof woooof woof, woof

that young girl-wife I wedded past fifty, and sailed for Cape Horn
woof wooof woof-woof W woooof woof wooof, wof woooof wof Woof Woof

the next day, leaving but one dent in my marriage pillow--wife?
wof woof wof, wooooof wof wof woof wf wf woooooof woooof--woof?

wife?--rather a widow with her husband alive! Aye, I widowed that poor
woof?--woooof w wooof woof wof wooooof wooof! Wof, W wooooof woof woof

girl when I married her, Starbuck; and then, the madness, the frenzy,
woof woof W wooooof wof, Woooooof; wof woof, wof wooooof, wof woooof,

the boiling blood and the smoking brow, with which, for a thousand
wof wooooof wooof wof wof wooooof woof, woof wooof, wof w woooooof

lowerings old Ahab has furiously, foamingly chased his prey--more a
wooooooof wof Woof wof wooooooof, wooooooof woooof wof woof--woof w

demon than a man!--aye, aye! what a forty years' fool--fool--old fool,
wooof woof w wof!--wof, wof! woof w wooof wooof' woof--woof--wof woof,

has old Ahab been! Why this strife of the chase? why weary, and palsy
wof wof Woof woof! Wof woof woooof wf wof wooof? wof wooof, wof wooof

the arm at the oar, and the iron, and the lance? how the richer or
wof wof wf wof wof, wof wof woof, wof wof wooof? wof wof woooof wf

better is Ahab now? Behold. Oh, Starbuck! is it not hard, that with this
woooof wf Woof wof? Woooof. Wf, Woooooof! wf wf wof woof, woof woof woof

weary load I bear, one poor leg should have been snatched from under
wooof woof W woof, wof woof wof woooof woof woof woooooof woof wooof

me? Here, brush this old hair aside; it blinds me, that I seem to weep.
wf? Woof, wooof woof wof woof wooof; wf woooof wf, woof W woof wf woof.

Locks so grey did never grow but from out some ashes! But do I look
Wooof wf woof wof wooof woof wof woof wof woof wooof! Wof wf W woof

very old, so very, very old, Starbuck? I feel deadly faint, bowed, and
woof wof, wf woof, woof wof, Woooooof? W woof woooof wooof, wooof, wof

humped, as though I were Adam, staggering beneath the piled
woooof, wf woooof W woof Woof, woooooooof wooooof wof wooof

centuries since Paradise. God! God! God!--crack my heart!--stave my
wooooooof wooof Woooooof. Wof! Wof! Wof!--wooof wf wooof!--wooof wf

brain!--mockery! mockery! bitter, biting mockery of grey hairs, have
wooof!--wooooof! wooooof! woooof, woooof wooooof wf woof wooof, woof

I lived enough joy to wear ye; and seem and feel thus intolerably old?
W wooof woooof wof wf woof wf; wof woof wof woof woof wooooooooof wof?

Close! stand close to me, Starbuck; let me look into a human eye; it is
Wooof! wooof wooof wf wf, Woooooof; wof wf woof woof w wooof wof; wf wf

better than to gaze into sea or sky; better than to gaze upon God. By
woooof woof wf woof woof wof wf wof; woooof woof wf woof woof Wof. Wf

the green land; by the bright hearth-stone! this is the magic glass,
wof wooof woof; wf wof woooof woooof-wooof! woof wf wof wooof wooof,

man; I see my wife and my child in thine eye. No, no; stay on board, on
wof; W wof wf woof wof wf wooof wf wooof wof. Wf, wf; woof wf wooof, wf

board!--lower not when I do; when branded Ahab gives chase to Moby Dick.
wooof!--wooof wof woof W wf; woof wooooof Woof wooof wooof wf Woof Woof.

That hazard shall not be thine. No, no! not with the far away home I see
Woof woooof wooof wof wf wooof. Wf, wf! wof woof wof wof woof woof W wof

in that eye!"
wf woof wof!"




"Oh, my Captain! my Captain! noble soul! grand old heart, after all! why
"Wf, wf Wooooof! wf Wooooof! wooof woof! wooof wof wooof, wooof wof! wof

should any one give chase to that hated fish! Away with me! let us
woooof wof wof woof wooof wf woof wooof woof! Woof woof wf! wof wf

fly these deadly waters! let us home! Wife and child, too, are
wof wooof woooof woooof! wof wf woof! Woof wof wooof, wof, wof

Starbuck's--wife and child of his brotherly, sisterly, play-fellow
Woooooof'w--woof wof wooof wf wof wooooooof, woooooof, woof-woooof

youth; even as thine, sir, are the wife and child of thy loving,
wooof; woof wf wooof, wof, wof wof woof wof wooof wf wof woooof,

longing, paternal old age! Away! let us away!--this instant let me alter
wooooof, woooooof wof wof! Woof! wof wf woof!--woof wooooof wof wf wooof

the course! How cheerily, how hilariously, O my Captain, would we bowl
wof woooof! Wof woooooof, wof wooooooooof, W wf Wooooof, wooof wf woof

on our way to see old Nantucket again! I think, sir, they have some such
wf wof wof wf wof wof Wooooooof wooof! W wooof, wof, woof woof woof woof

mild blue days, even as this, in Nantucket."
woof woof woof, woof wf woof, wf Wooooooof."




"They have, they have. I have seen them--some summer days in the
"Woof woof, woof woof. W woof woof woof--woof woooof woof wf wof

morning. About this time--yes, it is his noon nap now--the boy
wooooof. Wooof woof woof--wof, wf wf wof woof wof wof--wof wof

vivaciously wakes; sits up in bed; and his mother tells him of me, of
wooooooooof wooof; woof wf wf wof; wof wof woooof wooof wof wf wf, wf

cannibal old me; how I am abroad upon the deep, but will yet come back
woooooof wof wf; wof W wf woooof woof wof woof, wof woof wof woof woof

to dance him again."
wf wooof wof wooof."




"'Tis my Mary, my Mary herself! She promised that my boy, every morning,
"'Wof wf Woof, wf Woof wooooof! Wof woooooof woof wf wof, wooof wooooof,

should be carried to the hill to catch the first glimpse of his father's
woooof wf wooooof wf wof woof wf wooof wof wooof wooooof wf wof woooof'w

sail! Yes, yes! no more! it is done! we head for Nantucket! Come, my
woof! Wof, wof! wf woof! wf wf woof! wf woof wof Wooooooof! Woof, wf

Captain, study out the course, and let us away! See, see! the boy's face
Wooooof, wooof wof wof woooof, wof wof wf woof! Wof, wof! wof wof'w woof

from the window! the boy's hand on the hill!"
woof wof woooof! wof wof'w woof wf wof woof!"




But Ahab's glance was averted; like a blighted fruit tree he shook, and
Wof Woof'w woooof wof wooooof; woof w woooooof wooof woof wf wooof, wof

cast his last, cindered apple to the soil.
woof wof woof, woooooof wooof wf wof woof.




"What is it, what nameless, inscrutable, unearthly thing is it; what
"Woof wf wf, woof woooooof, wooooooooof, wooooooof wooof wf wf; woof

cozening, hidden lord and master, and cruel, remorseless emperor
woooooof, woooof woof wof woooof, wof wooof, wooooooooof wooooof

commands me; that against all natural lovings and longings, I so keep
woooooof wf; woof wooooof wof wooooof wooooof wof woooooof, W wf woof

pushing, and crowding, and jamming myself on all the time; recklessly
wooooof, wof woooooof, wof wooooof woooof wf wof wof woof; woooooooof

making me ready to do what in my own proper, natural heart, I durst not
woooof wf wooof wf wf woof wf wf wof woooof, wooooof wooof, W wooof wof

so much as dare? Is Ahab, Ahab? Is it I, God, or who, that lifts this
wf woof wf woof? Wf Woof, Woof? Wf wf W, Wof, wf wof, woof wooof woof

arm? But if the great sun move not of himself; but is as an errand-boy
wof? Wof wf wof wooof wof woof wof wf wooooof; wof wf wf wf woooof-wof

in heaven; nor one single star can revolve, but by some invisible power;
wf woooof; wof wof woooof woof wof wooooof, wof wf woof wooooooof wooof;

how then can this one small heart beat; this one small brain think
wof woof wof woof wof wooof wooof woof; woof wof wooof wooof wooof

thoughts; unless God does that beating, does that thinking, does that
woooooof; woooof Wof woof woof wooooof, woof woof woooooof, woof woof

living, and not I. By heaven, man, we are turned round and round in
woooof, wof wof W. Wf woooof, wof, wf wof woooof wooof wof wooof wf

this world, like yonder windlass, and Fate is the handspike. And all
woof wooof, woof woooof woooooof, wof Woof wf wof wooooooof. Wof wof

the time, lo! that smiling sky, and this unsounded sea! Look! see yon
wof woof, wf! woof wooooof wof, wof woof wooooooof wof! Woof! wof wof

Albicore! who put it into him to chase and fang that flying-fish? Where
Woooooof! wof wof wf woof wof wf wooof wof woof woof woooof-woof? Wooof

do murderers go, man! Who's to doom, when the judge himself is dragged
wf wooooooof wf, wof! Wof'w wf woof, woof wof wooof wooooof wf wooooof

to the bar? But it is a mild, mild wind, and a mild looking sky; and
wf wof wof? Wof wf wf w woof, woof woof, wof w woof wooooof wof; wof

the air smells now, as if it blew from a far-away meadow; they have been
wof wof woooof wof, wf wf wf woof woof w wof-woof woooof; woof woof woof

making hay somewhere under the slopes of the Andes, Starbuck, and the
woooof wof wooooooof wooof wof woooof wf wof Wooof, Woooooof, wof wof

mowers are sleeping among the new-mown hay. Sleeping? Aye, toil we how
woooof wof woooooof wooof wof wof-woof wof. Woooooof? Wof, woof wf wof

we may, we all sleep at last on the field. Sleep? Aye, and rust amid
wf wof, wf wof wooof wf woof wf wof wooof. Wooof? Wof, wof woof woof

greenness; as last year's scythes flung down, and left in the half-cut
wooooooof; wf woof woof'w wooooof wooof woof, wof woof wf wof woof-wof

swaths--Starbuck!"
woooof--Woooooof!"




But blanched to a corpse's hue with despair, the Mate had stolen away.
Wof woooooof wf w woooof'w wof woof wooooof, wof Woof wof woooof woof.




Ahab crossed the deck to gaze over on the other side; but started at
Woof wooooof wof woof wf woof woof wf wof wooof woof; wof wooooof wf

two reflected, fixed eyes in the water there. Fedallah was motionlessly
wof wooooooof, wooof woof wf wof wooof wooof. Woooooof wof woooooooooof

leaning over the same rail.
wooooof woof wof woof woof.










CHAPTER 133. The Chase--First Day.
WOOOOOF wof. Wof Wooof--Wooof Wof.







That night, in the mid-watch, when the old man--as his wont at
Woof wooof, wf wof wof-wooof, woof wof wof wof--wf wof woof wf

intervals--stepped forth from the scuttle in which he leaned, and went
wooooooof--wooooof wooof woof wof wooooof wf wooof wf woooof, wof woof

to his pivot-hole, he suddenly thrust out his face fiercely, snuffing
wf wof wooof-woof, wf woooooof woooof wof wof woof woooooof, woooooof

up the sea air as a sagacious ship's dog will, in drawing nigh to
wf wof wof wof wf w wooooooof woof'w wof woof, wf wooooof woof wf

some barbarous isle. He declared that a whale must be near. Soon that
woof wooooooof woof. Wf woooooof woof w wooof woof wf woof. Woof woof

peculiar odor, sometimes to a great distance given forth by the
woooooof woof, wooooooof wf w wooof woooooof wooof wooof wf wof

living sperm whale, was palpable to all the watch; nor was any mariner
woooof wooof wooof, wof woooooof wf wof wof wooof; wof wof wof wooooof

surprised when, after inspecting the compass, and then the dog-vane, and
wooooooof woof, wooof woooooooof wof wooooof, wof woof wof wof-woof, wof

then ascertaining the precise bearing of the odor as nearly as possible,
woof woooooooooof wof wooooof wooooof wf wof woof wf woooof wf woooooof,

Ahab rapidly ordered the ship's course to be slightly altered, and the
Woof wooooof wooooof wof woof'w woooof wf wf woooooof wooooof, wof wof

sail to be shortened.
woof wf wf wooooooof.




The acute policy dictating these movements was sufficiently vindicated
Wof wooof woooof wooooooof wooof wooooooof wof woooooooooof woooooooof

at daybreak, by the sight of a long sleek on the sea directly and
wf woooooof, wf wof wooof wf w woof wooof wf wof wof woooooof wof

lengthwise ahead, smooth as oil, and resembling in the pleated watery
woooooooof wooof, woooof wf wof, wof woooooooof wf wof wooooof woooof

wrinkles bordering it, the polished metallic-like marks of some swift
woooooof wooooooof wf, wof woooooof woooooof-woof wooof wf woof wooof

tide-rip, at the mouth of a deep, rapid stream.
woof-wof, wf wof wooof wf w woof, wooof woooof.




"Man the mast-heads! Call all hands!"
"Wof wof woof-wooof! Woof wof wooof!"




Thundering with the butts of three clubbed handspikes on the forecastle
Woooooooof woof wof wooof wf wooof wooooof woooooooof wf wof woooooooof

deck, Daggoo roused the sleepers with such judgment claps that they
woof, Woooof woooof wof woooooof woof woof woooooof wooof woof woof

seemed to exhale from the scuttle, so instantaneously did they appear
woooof wf woooof woof wof wooooof, wf wooooooooooooof wof woof woooof

with their clothes in their hands.
woof wooof wooooof wf wooof wooof.




"What d'ye see?" cried Ahab, flattening his face to the sky.
"Woof w'wf wof?" wooof Woof, woooooooof wof woof wf wof wof.




"Nothing, nothing sir!" was the sound hailing down in reply.
"Wooooof, wooooof wof!" wof wof wooof wooooof woof wf wooof.




"T'gallant sails!--stunsails! alow and aloft, and on both sides!"
"W'wooooof wooof!--wooooooof! woof wof wooof, wof wf woof wooof!"




All sail being set, he now cast loose the life-line, reserved for
Wof woof wooof wof, wf wof woof wooof wof woof-woof, woooooof wof

swaying him to the main royal-mast head; and in a few moments they were
wooooof wof wf wof woof wooof-woof woof; wof wf w wof wooooof woof woof

hoisting him thither, when, while but two thirds of the way aloft,
woooooof wof wooooof, woof, wooof wof wof woooof wf wof wof wooof,

and while peering ahead through the horizontal vacancy between the
wof wooof wooooof wooof wooooof wof woooooooof wooooof wooooof wof

main-top-sail and top-gallant-sail, he raised a gull-like cry in the
woof-wof-woof wof wof-wooooof-woof, wf woooof w woof-woof wof wf wof

air. "There she blows!--there she blows! A hump like a snow-hill! It is
wof. "Wooof wof wooof!--wooof wof wooof! W woof woof w woof-woof! Wf wf

Moby Dick!"
Woof Woof!"




Fired by the cry which seemed simultaneously taken up by the three
Wooof wf wof wof wooof woooof woooooooooooof wooof wf wf wof wooof

look-outs, the men on deck rushed to the rigging to behold the famous
woof-woof, wof wof wf woof woooof wf wof wooooof wf woooof wof woooof

whale they had so long been pursuing. Ahab had now gained his final
wooof woof wof wf woof woof woooooof. Woof wof wof woooof wof wooof

perch, some feet above the other look-outs, Tashtego standing just
wooof, woof woof wooof wof wooof woof-woof, Woooooof woooooof woof

beneath him on the cap of the top-gallant-mast, so that the Indian's
wooooof wof wf wof wof wf wof wof-wooooof-woof, wf woof wof Woooof'w

head was almost on a level with Ahab's heel. From this height the whale
woof wof woooof wf w wooof woof Woof'w woof. Woof woof woooof wof wooof

was now seen some mile or so ahead, at every roll of the sea revealing
wof wof woof woof woof wf wf wooof, wf wooof woof wf wof wof wooooooof

his high sparkling hump, and regularly jetting his silent spout into the
wof woof wooooooof woof, wof wooooooof wooooof wof woooof wooof woof wof

air. To the credulous mariners it seemed the same silent spout they had
wof. Wf wof wooooooof woooooof wf woooof wof woof woooof wooof woof wof

so long ago beheld in the moonlit Atlantic and Indian Oceans.
wf woof wof woooof wf wof wooooof Woooooof wof Woooof Woooof.




"And did none of ye see it before?" cried Ahab, hailing the perched men
"Wof wof woof wf wf wof wf woooof?" wooof Woof, wooooof wof wooooof wof

all around him.
wof woooof wof.




"I saw him almost that same instant, sir, that Captain Ahab did, and I
"W wof wof woooof woof woof wooooof, wof, woof Wooooof Woof wof, wof W

cried out," said Tashtego.
wooof wof," woof Woooooof.




"Not the same instant; not the same--no, the doubloon is mine, Fate
"Wof wof woof wooooof; wof wof woof--wf, wof woooooof wf woof, Woof

reserved the doubloon for me. I only; none of ye could have raised the
woooooof wof woooooof wof wf. W woof; woof wf wf wooof woof woooof wof

White Whale first. There she blows!--there she blows!--there she blows!
Wooof Wooof wooof. Wooof wof wooof!--wooof wof wooof!--wooof wof wooof!

There again!--there again!" he cried, in long-drawn, lingering, methodic
Wooof wooof!--wooof wooof!" wf wooof, wf woof-wooof, wooooooof, woooooof

tones, attuned to the gradual prolongings of the whale's visible jets.
wooof, wooooof wf wof wooooof wooooooooof wf wof wooof'w wooooof woof.

"He's going to sound! In stunsails! Down top-gallant-sails! Stand by
"Wf'w wooof wf wooof! Wf wooooooof! Woof wof-wooooof-wooof! Wooof wf

three boats. Mr. Starbuck, remember, stay on board, and keep the ship.
wooof wooof. Wf. Woooooof, woooooof, woof wf wooof, wof woof wof woof.

Helm there! Luff, luff a point! So; steady, man, steady! There go
Woof wooof! Woof, woof w wooof! Wf; woooof, wof, woooof! Wooof wf

flukes! No, no; only black water! All ready the boats there? Stand by,
woooof! Wf, wf; woof wooof wooof! Wof wooof wof wooof wooof? Wooof wf,

stand by! Lower me, Mr. Starbuck; lower, lower,--quick, quicker!" and he
wooof wf! Wooof wf, Wf. Woooooof; wooof, wooof,--wooof, wooooof!" wof wf

slid through the air to the deck.
woof wooooof wof wof wf wof woof.




"He is heading straight to leeward, sir," cried Stubb, "right away from
"Wf wf wooooof woooooof wf wooooof, wof," wooof Wooof, "wooof woof woof

us; cannot have seen the ship yet."
wf; woooof woof woof wof woof wof."




"Be dumb, man! Stand by the braces! Hard down the helm!--brace up!
"Wf woof, wof! Wooof wf wof woooof! Woof woof wof woof!--wooof wf!

Shiver her!--shiver her!--So; well that! Boats, boats!"
Woooof wof!--woooof wof!--Wf; woof woof! Wooof, wooof!"




Soon all the boats but Starbuck's were dropped; all the boat-sails
Woof wof wof wooof wof Woooooof'w woof wooooof; wof wof woof-wooof

set--all the paddles plying; with rippling swiftness, shooting to
wof--wof wof wooooof woooof; woof woooooof wooooooof, woooooof wf

leeward; and Ahab heading the onset. A pale, death-glimmer lit up
wooooof; wof Woof wooooof wof wooof. W woof, wooof-wooooof wof wf

Fedallah's sunken eyes; a hideous motion gnawed his mouth.
Woooooof'w woooof woof; w wooooof woooof woooof wof wooof.




Like noiseless nautilus shells, their light prows sped through the sea;
Woof wooooooof woooooof woooof, wooof wooof wooof woof wooooof wof wof;

but only slowly they neared the foe. As they neared him, the ocean grew
wof woof woooof woof woooof wof wof. Wf woof woooof wof, wof wooof woof

still more smooth; seemed drawing a carpet over its waves; seemed a
wooof woof woooof; woooof wooooof w woooof woof wof wooof; woooof w

noon-meadow, so serenely it spread. At length the breathless hunter came
woof-woooof, wf woooooof wf woooof. Wf woooof wof woooooooof woooof woof

so nigh his seemingly unsuspecting prey, that his entire dazzling hump
wf woof wof wooooooof woooooooooof woof, woof wof woooof woooooof woof

was distinctly visible, sliding along the sea as if an isolated thing,
wof woooooooof wooooof, wooooof wooof wof wof wf wf wf woooooof wooof,

and continually set in a revolving ring of finest, fleecy, greenish
wof wooooooooof wof wf w wooooooof woof wf woooof, woooof, woooooof

foam. He saw the vast, involved wrinkles of the slightly projecting head
woof. Wf wof wof woof, woooooof woooooof wf wof woooooof woooooooof woof

beyond. Before it, far out on the soft Turkish-rugged waters, went
woooof. Woooof wf, wof wof wf wof woof Wooooof-woooof woooof, woof

the glistening white shadow from his broad, milky forehead, a musical
wof woooooooof wooof woooof woof wof wooof, wooof woooooof, w wooooof

rippling playfully accompanying the shade; and behind, the blue waters
woooooof wooooooof woooooooooof wof wooof; wof woooof, wof woof woooof

interchangeably flowed over into the moving valley of his steady wake;
wooooooooooooof woooof woof woof wof woooof woooof wf wof woooof woof;

and on either hand bright bubbles arose and danced by his side. But
wof wf woooof woof woooof wooooof wooof wof woooof wf wof woof. Wof

these were broken again by the light toes of hundreds of gay fowl softly
wooof woof woooof wooof wf wof wooof woof wf woooooof wf wof woof woooof

feathering the sea, alternate with their fitful flight; and like to
woooooooof wof wof, wooooooof woof wooof woooof woooof; wof woof wf

some flag-staff rising from the painted hull of an argosy, the tall but
woof woof-wooof woooof woof wof wooooof woof wf wf woooof, wof woof wof

shattered pole of a recent lance projected from the white whale's back;
wooooooof woof wf w woooof wooof wooooooof woof wof wooof wooof'w woof;

and at intervals one of the cloud of soft-toed fowls hovering, and
wof wf wooooooof wof wf wof wooof wf woof-woof wooof woooooof, wof

to and fro skimming like a canopy over the fish, silently perched and
wf wof wof woooooof woof w woooof woof wof woof, woooooof wooooof wof

rocked on this pole, the long tail feathers streaming like pennons.
woooof wf woof woof, wof woof woof woooooof wooooooof woof wooooof.




A gentle joyousness--a mighty mildness of repose in swiftness, invested
W woooof woooooooof--w woooof woooooof wf woooof wf wooooooof, woooooof

the gliding whale. Not the white bull Jupiter swimming away with
wof wooooof wooof. Wof wof wooof woof Wooooof woooooof woof woof

ravished Europa clinging to his graceful horns; his lovely, leering
woooooof Woooof woooooof wf wof woooooof wooof; wof woooof, wooooof

eyes sideways intent upon the maid; with smooth bewitching fleetness,
woof woooooof woooof woof wof woof; woof woooof woooooooof wooooooof,

rippling straight for the nuptial bower in Crete; not Jove, not that
woooooof woooooof wof wof wooooof wooof wf Wooof; wof Woof, wof woof

great majesty Supreme! did surpass the glorified White Whale as he so
wooof wooooof Wooooof! wof wooooof wof wooooooof Wooof Wooof wf wf wf

divinely swam.
woooooof woof.




On each soft side--coincident with the parted swell, that but once
Wf woof woof woof--woooooooof woof wof woooof wooof, woof wof woof

leaving him, then flowed so wide away--on each bright side, the whale
wooooof wof, woof woooof wf woof woof--wf woof woooof woof, wof wooof

shed off enticings. No wonder there had been some among the hunters who
woof wof wooooooof. Wf woooof wooof wof woof woof wooof wof wooooof wof

namelessly transported and allured by all this serenity, had ventured
woooooooof wooooooooof wof wooooof wf wof woof woooooof, wof woooooof

to assail it; but had fatally found that quietude but the vesture of
wf woooof wf; wof wof wooooof wooof woof woooooof wof wof wooooof wf

tornadoes. Yet calm, enticing calm, oh, whale! thou glidest on, to all
wooooooof. Wof woof, woooooof woof, wf, wooof! woof wooooof wf, wf wof

who for the first time eye thee, no matter how many in that same way
wof wof wof wooof woof wof woof, wf woooof wof woof wf woof woof wof

thou may'st have bejuggled and destroyed before.
woof wof'wf woof wooooooof wof wooooooof woooof.




And thus, through the serene tranquillities of the tropical sea, among
Wof woof, wooooof wof woooof woooooooooooof wf wof woooooof wof, wooof

waves whose hand-clappings were suspended by exceeding rapture, Moby
wooof wooof woof-wooooooof woof wooooooof wf wooooooof wooooof, Woof

Dick moved on, still withholding from sight the full terrors of his
Woof wooof wf, wooof wooooooooof woof wooof wof woof wooooof wf wof

submerged trunk, entirely hiding the wrenched hideousness of his jaw.
wooooooof wooof, woooooof woooof wof woooooof wooooooooof wf wof wof.

But soon the fore part of him slowly rose from the water; for an instant
Wof woof wof woof woof wf wof woooof woof woof wof wooof; wof wf wooooof

his whole marbleized body formed a high arch, like Virginia's Natural
wof wooof woooooooof woof woooof w woof woof, woof Woooooof'w Wooooof

Bridge, and warningly waving his bannered flukes in the air, the
Woooof, wof wooooooof woooof wof woooooof woooof wf wof wof, wof

grand god revealed himself, sounded, and went out of sight. Hoveringly
wooof wof woooooof wooooof, wooooof, wof woof wof wf wooof. Woooooooof

halting, and dipping on the wing, the white sea-fowls longingly lingered
wooooof, wof wooooof wf wof woof, wof wooof wof-wooof wooooooof woooooof

over the agitated pool that he left.
woof wof woooooof woof woof wf woof.




With oars apeak, and paddles down, the sheets of their sails adrift, the
Woof woof wooof, wof wooooof woof, wof woooof wf wooof wooof woooof, wof

three boats now stilly floated, awaiting Moby Dick's reappearance.
wooof wooof wof woooof wooooof, woooooof Woof Woof'w woooooooooof.




"An hour," said Ahab, standing rooted in his boat's stern; and he gazed
"Wf woof," woof Woof, woooooof woooof wf wof woof'w wooof; wof wf wooof

beyond the whale's place, towards the dim blue spaces and wide wooing
woooof wof wooof'w wooof, wooooof wof wof woof woooof wof woof woooof

vacancies to leeward. It was only an instant; for again his eyes seemed
wooooooof wf wooooof. Wf wof woof wf wooooof; wof wooof wof woof woooof

whirling round in his head as he swept the watery circle. The breeze now
woooooof wooof wf wof woof wf wf wooof wof woooof woooof. Wof woooof wof

freshened; the sea began to swell.
wooooooof; wof wof wooof wf wooof.




"The birds!--the birds!" cried Tashtego.
"Wof wooof!--wof wooof!" wooof Woooooof.




In long Indian file, as when herons take wing, the white birds were
Wf woof Woooof woof, wf woof woooof woof woof, wof wooof wooof woof

now all flying towards Ahab's boat; and when within a few yards began
wof wof woooof wooooof Woof'w woof; wof woof woooof w wof wooof wooof

fluttering over the water there, wheeling round and round, with joyous,
woooooooof woof wof wooof wooof, woooooof wooof wof wooof, woof woooof,

expectant cries. Their vision was keener than man's; Ahab could discover
wooooooof wooof. Wooof woooof wof woooof woof wof'w; Woof wooof woooooof

no sign in the sea. But suddenly as he peered down and down into its
wf woof wf wof wof. Wof woooooof wf wf woooof woof wof woof woof wof

depths, he profoundly saw a white living spot no bigger than a white
woooof, wf woooooooof wof w wooof woooof woof wf woooof woof w wooof

weasel, with wonderful celerity uprising, and magnifying as it rose,
woooof, woof wooooooof woooooof woooooof, wof woooooooof wf wf woof,

till it turned, and then there were plainly revealed two long crooked
woof wf woooof, wof woof wooof woof wooooof woooooof wof woof wooooof

rows of white, glistening teeth, floating up from the undiscoverable
woof wf wooof, woooooooof wooof, woooooof wf woof wof woooooooooooof

bottom. It was Moby Dick's open mouth and scrolled jaw; his vast,
woooof. Wf wof Woof Woof'w woof wooof wof woooooof wof; wof woof,

shadowed bulk still half blending with the blue of the sea. The
woooooof woof wooof woof woooooof woof wof woof wf wof wof. Wof

glittering mouth yawned beneath the boat like an open-doored marble
woooooooof wooof woooof wooooof wof woof woof wf woof-woooof woooof

tomb; and giving one sidelong sweep with his steering oar, Ahab whirled
woof; wof woooof wof woooooof wooof woof wof woooooof wof, Woof wooooof

the craft aside from this tremendous apparition. Then, calling upon
wof wooof wooof woof woof woooooooof woooooooof. Woof, wooooof woof

Fedallah to change places with him, went forward to the bows, and
Woooooof wf woooof woooof woof wof, woof wooooof wf wof woof, wof

seizing Perth's harpoon, commanded his crew to grasp their oars and
wooooof Wooof'w wooooof, wooooooof wof woof wf wooof wooof woof wof

stand by to stern.
wooof wf wf wooof.




Now, by reason of this timely spinning round the boat upon its axis, its
Wof, wf woooof wf woof woooof woooooof wooof wof woof woof wof woof, wof

bow, by anticipation, was made to face the whale's head while yet
wof, wf woooooooooof, wof woof wf woof wof wooof'w woof wooof wof

under water. But as if perceiving this stratagem, Moby Dick, with that
wooof wooof. Wof wf wf woooooooof woof wooooooof, Woof Woof, woof woof

malicious intelligence ascribed to him, sidelingly transplanted himself,
wooooooof woooooooooof woooooof wf wof, woooooooof woooooooooof wooooof,

as it were, in an instant, shooting his pleated head lengthwise beneath
wf wf woof, wf wf wooooof, woooooof wof wooooof woof woooooooof wooooof

the boat.
wof woof.




Through and through; through every plank and each rib, it thrilled for
Wooooof wof wooooof; wooooof wooof wooof wof woof wof, wf woooooof wof

an instant, the whale obliquely lying on his back, in the manner of
wf wooooof, wof wooof wooooooof wooof wf wof woof, wf wof woooof wf

a biting shark, slowly and feelingly taking its bows full within his
w woooof wooof, woooof wof wooooooof woooof wof woof woof woooof wof

mouth, so that the long, narrow, scrolled lower jaw curled high up into
wooof, wf woof wof woof, woooof, woooooof wooof wof woooof woof wf woof

the open air, and one of the teeth caught in a row-lock. The bluish
wof woof wof, wof wof wf wof wooof woooof wf w wof-woof. Wof woooof

pearl-white of the inside of the jaw was within six inches of Ahab's
wooof-wooof wf wof woooof wf wof wof wof woooof wof woooof wf Woof'w

head, and reached higher than that. In this attitude the White Whale
woof, wof wooooof woooof woof woof. Wf woof woooooof wof Wooof Wooof

now shook the slight cedar as a mildly cruel cat her mouse. With
wof wooof wof woooof wooof wf w woooof wooof wof wof wooof. Woof

unastonished eyes Fedallah gazed, and crossed his arms; but the
woooooooooof woof Woooooof wooof, wof wooooof wof woof; wof wof

tiger-yellow crew were tumbling over each other's heads to gain the
wooof-woooof woof woof woooooof woof woof wooof'w wooof wf woof wof

uttermost stern.
wooooooof wooof.




And now, while both elastic gunwales were springing in and out, as the
Wof wof, wooof woof wooooof woooooof woof wooooooof wf wof wof, wf wof

whale dallied with the doomed craft in this devilish way; and from his
wooof wooooof woof wof woooof wooof wf woof woooooof wof; wof woof wof

body being submerged beneath the boat, he could not be darted at from
woof wooof wooooooof wooooof wof woof, wf wooof wof wf woooof wf woof

the bows, for the bows were almost inside of him, as it were; and
wof woof, wof wof woof woof woooof woooof wf wof, wf wf woof; wof

while the other boats involuntarily paused, as before a quick crisis
wooof wof wooof wooof wooooooooooof woooof, wf woooof w wooof woooof

impossible to withstand, then it was that monomaniac Ahab, furious with
woooooooof wf wooooooof, woof wf wof woof woooooooof Woof, wooooof woof

this tantalizing vicinity of his foe, which placed him all alive and
woof wooooooooof woooooof wf wof wof, wooof woooof wof wof wooof wof

helpless in the very jaws he hated; frenzied with all this, he seized
woooooof wf wof woof woof wf wooof; woooooof woof wof woof, wf woooof

the long bone with his naked hands, and wildly strove to wrench it from
wof woof woof woof wof wooof wooof, wof woooof woooof wf woooof wf woof

its gripe. As now he thus vainly strove, the jaw slipped from him; the
wof wooof. Wf wof wf woof woooof woooof, wof wof wooooof woof wof; wof

frail gunwales bent in, collapsed, and snapped, as both jaws, like an
wooof woooooof woof wf, wooooooof, wof wooooof, wf woof woof, woof wf

enormous shears, sliding further aft, bit the craft completely in twain,
woooooof woooof, wooooof wooooof wof, wof wof wooof woooooooof wf wooof,

and locked themselves fast again in the sea, midway between the two
wof woooof woooooooof woof wooof wf wof wof, woooof wooooof wof wof

floating wrecks. These floated aside, the broken ends drooping, the crew
woooooof woooof. Wooof wooooof wooof, wof woooof woof woooooof, wof woof

at the stern-wreck clinging to the gunwales, and striving to hold fast
wf wof wooof-wooof woooooof wf wof woooooof, wof woooooof wf woof woof

to the oars to lash them across.
wf wof woof wf woof woof woooof.




At that preluding moment, ere the boat was yet snapped, Ahab, the first
Wf woof wooooooof woooof, wof wof woof wof wof wooooof, Woof, wof wooof

to perceive the whale's intent, by the crafty upraising of his head, a
wf woooooof wof wooof'w woooof, wf wof woooof wooooooof wf wof woof, w

movement that loosed his hold for the time; at that moment his hand
woooooof woof woooof wof woof wof wof woof; wf woof woooof wof woof

had made one final effort to push the boat out of the bite. But only
wof woof wof wooof woooof wf woof wof woof wof wf wof woof. Wof woof

slipping further into the whale's mouth, and tilting over sideways as it
woooooof wooooof woof wof wooof'w wooof, wof wooooof woof woooooof wf wf

slipped, the boat had shaken off his hold on the jaw; spilled him out of
wooooof, wof woof wof woooof wof wof woof wf wof wof; wooooof wof wof wf

it, as he leaned to the push; and so he fell flat-faced upon the sea.
wf, wf wf woooof wf wof woof; wof wf wf woof woof-wooof woof wof wof.




Ripplingly withdrawing from his prey, Moby Dick now lay at a little
Woooooooof wooooooooof woof wof woof, Woof Woof wof wof wf w woooof

distance, vertically thrusting his oblong white head up and down in the
woooooof, woooooooof wooooooof wof woooof wooof woof wf wof woof wf wof

billows; and at the same time slowly revolving his whole spindled body;
wooooof; wof wf wof woof woof woooof wooooooof wof wooof woooooof woof;

so that when his vast wrinkled forehead rose--some twenty or more feet
wf woof woof wof woof woooooof woooooof woof--woof woooof wf woof woof

out of the water--the now rising swells, with all their confluent waves,
wof wf wof wooof--wof wof woooof woooof, woof wof wooof wooooooof wooof,

dazzlingly broke against it; vindictively tossing their shivered spray
woooooooof wooof wooooof wf; woooooooooof wooooof wooof woooooof wooof

still higher into the air.* So, in a gale, the but half baffled Channel
wooof woooof woof wof wof.* Wf, wf w woof, wof wof woof wooooof Wooooof

billows only recoil from the base of the Eddystone, triumphantly to
wooooof woof woooof woof wof woof wf wof Wooooooof, woooooooooof wf

overleap its summit with their scud.
woooooof wof woooof woof wooof woof.







*This motion is peculiar to the sperm whale. It receives its designation
*Woof woooof wf woooooof wf wof wooof wooof. Wf woooooof wof wooooooooof

(pitchpoling) from its being likened to that preliminary up-and-down
(wooooooooof) woof wof wooof wooooof wf woof wooooooooof wf-wof-woof

poise of the whale-lance, in the exercise called pitchpoling, previously
wooof wf wof wooof-wooof, wf wof woooooof woooof wooooooooof, woooooooof

described. By this motion the whale must best and most comprehensively
wooooooof. Wf woof woooof wof wooof woof woof wof woof wooooooooooooof

view whatever objects may be encircling him.
woof woooooof wooooof wof wf woooooooof wof.







But soon resuming his horizontal attitude, Moby Dick swam swiftly round
Wof woof woooooof wof woooooooof woooooof, Woof Woof woof wooooof wooof

and round the wrecked crew; sideways churning the water in his vengeful
wof wooof wof wooooof woof; woooooof woooooof wof wooof wf wof woooooof

wake, as if lashing himself up to still another and more deadly assault.
woof, wf wf wooooof wooooof wf wf wooof wooooof wof woof woooof wooooof.

The sight of the splintered boat seemed to madden him, as the blood of
Wof wooof wf wof woooooooof woof woooof wf woooof wof, wf wof wooof wf

grapes and mulberries cast before Antiochus's elephants in the book
woooof wof woooooooof woof woooof Wooooooof'w wooooooof wf wof woof

of Maccabees. Meanwhile Ahab half smothered in the foam of the whale's
wf Wooooooof. Wooooooof Woof woof wooooooof wf wof woof wf wof wooof'w

insolent tail, and too much of a cripple to swim,--though he could still
woooooof woof, wof wof woof wf w wooooof wf woof,--woooof wf wooof wooof

keep afloat, even in the heart of such a whirlpool as that; helpless
woof woooof, woof wf wof wooof wf woof w wooooooof wf woof; woooooof

Ahab's head was seen, like a tossed bubble which the least chance shock
Woof'w woof wof woof, woof w woooof woooof wooof wof wooof woooof wooof

might burst. From the boat's fragmentary stern, Fedallah incuriously and
wooof wooof. Woof wof woof'w wooooooooof wooof, Woooooof wooooooooof wof

mildly eyed him; the clinging crew, at the other drifting end, could not
woooof woof wof; wof woooooof woof, wf wof wooof woooooof wof, wooof wof

succor him; more than enough was it for them to look to themselves.
woooof wof; woof woof woooof wof wf wof woof wf woof wf woooooooof.

For so revolvingly appalling was the White Whale's aspect, and so
Wof wf wooooooooof wooooooof wof wof Wooof Wooof'w woooof, wof wf

planetarily swift the ever-contracting circles he made, that he seemed
wooooooooof wooof wof woof-wooooooooof wooooof wf woof, woof wf woooof

horizontally swooping upon them. And though the other boats, unharmed,
woooooooooof woooooof woof woof. Wof woooof wof wooof wooof, woooooof,

still hovered hard by; still they dared not pull into the eddy to
wooof wooooof woof wf; wooof woof wooof wof woof woof wof woof wf

strike, lest that should be the signal for the instant destruction of
woooof, woof woof woooof wf wof woooof wof wof wooooof wooooooooof wf

the jeopardized castaways, Ahab and all; nor in that case could they
wof wooooooooof wooooooof, Woof wof wof; wof wf woof woof wooof woof

themselves hope to escape. With straining eyes, then, they remained on
woooooooof woof wf woooof. Woof wooooooof woof, woof, woof woooooof wf

the outer edge of the direful zone, whose centre had now become the old
wof wooof woof wf wof wooooof woof, wooof woooof wof wof woooof wof wof

man's head.
wof'w woof.




Meantime, from the beginning all this had been descried from the ship's
Woooooof, woof wof wooooooof wof woof wof woof woooooof woof wof woof'w

mast heads; and squaring her yards, she had borne down upon the scene;
woof wooof; wof woooooof wof wooof, wof wof wooof woof woof wof wooof;

and was now so nigh, that Ahab in the water hailed her!--"Sail on
wof wof wof wf woof, woof Woof wf wof wooof woooof wof!--"Woof wf

the"--but that moment a breaking sea dashed on him from Moby Dick, and
wof"--wof woof woooof w woooooof wof woooof wf wof woof Woof Woof, wof

whelmed him for the time. But struggling out of it again, and chancing
wooooof wof wof wof woof. Wof woooooooof wof wf wf wooof, wof woooooof

to rise on a towering crest, he shouted,--"Sail on the whale!--Drive him
wf woof wf w woooooof wooof, wf wooooof,--"Woof wf wof wooof!--Wooof wof

off!"
wof!"




The Pequod's prows were pointed; and breaking up the charmed circle, she
Wof Woooof'w wooof woof wooooof; wof woooooof wf wof wooooof woooof, wof

effectually parted the white whale from his victim. As he sullenly swam
wooooooooof woooof wof wooof wooof woof wof woooof. Wf wf woooooof woof

off, the boats flew to the rescue.
wof, wof wooof woof wf wof woooof.




Dragged into Stubb's boat with blood-shot, blinded eyes, the white brine
Wooooof woof Wooof'w woof woof wooof-woof, wooooof woof, wof wooof wooof

caking in his wrinkles; the long tension of Ahab's bodily strength did
woooof wf wof woooooof; wof woof wooooof wf Woof'w woooof woooooof wof

crack, and helplessly he yielded to his body's doom: for a time, lying
wooof, wof woooooooof wf wooooof wf wof woof'w woof: wof w woof, wooof

all crushed in the bottom of Stubb's boat, like one trodden under foot
wof wooooof wf wof woooof wf Wooof'w woof, woof wof wooooof wooof woof

of herds of elephants. Far inland, nameless wails came from him, as
wf wooof wf wooooooof. Wof woooof, woooooof wooof woof woof wof, wf

desolate sounds from out ravines.
woooooof woooof woof wof wooooof.




But this intensity of his physical prostration did but so much the more
Wof woof wooooooof wf wof woooooof wooooooooof wof wof wf woof wof woof

abbreviate it. In an instant's compass, great hearts sometimes condense
woooooooof wf. Wf wf wooooof'w wooooof, wooof woooof wooooooof woooooof

to one deep pang, the sum total of those shallow pains kindly diffused
wf wof woof woof, wof wof wooof wf wooof wooooof wooof woooof woooooof

through feebler men's whole lives. And so, such hearts, though summary
wooooof wooooof wof'w wooof wooof. Wof wf, woof woooof, woooof wooooof

in each one suffering; still, if the gods decree it, in their
wf woof wof wooooooof; wooof, wf wof woof woooof wf, wf wooof

life-time aggregate a whole age of woe, wholly made up of instantaneous
woof-woof wooooooof w wooof wof wf wof, woooof woof wf wf wooooooooooof

intensities; for even in their pointless centres, those noble natures
wooooooooof; wof woof wf wooof wooooooof wooooof, wooof wooof wooooof

contain the entire circumferences of inferior souls.
wooooof wof woooof woooooooooooof wf woooooof wooof.




"The harpoon," said Ahab, half way rising, and draggingly leaning on one
"Wof wooooof," woof Woof, woof wof woooof, wof woooooooof wooooof wf wof

bended arm--"is it safe?"
woooof wof--"wf wf woof?"




"Aye, sir, for it was not darted; this is it," said Stubb, showing it.
"Wof, wof, wof wf wof wof woooof; woof wf wf," woof Wooof, wooooof wf.




"Lay it before me;--any missing men?"
"Wof wf woooof wf;--wof wooooof wof?"




"One, two, three, four, five;--there were five oars, sir, and here are
"Wof, wof, wooof, woof, woof;--wooof woof woof woof, wof, wof woof wof

five men."
woof wof."




"That's good.--Help me, man; I wish to stand. So, so, I see him! there!
"Woof'w woof.--Woof wf, wof; W woof wf wooof. Wf, wf, W wof wof! wooof!

there! going to leeward still; what a leaping spout!--Hands off from me!
wooof! wooof wf wooooof wooof; woof w wooooof wooof!--Wooof wof woof wf!

The eternal sap runs up in Ahab's bones again! Set the sail; out oars;
Wof wooooof wof woof wf wf Woof'w wooof wooof! Wof wof woof; wof woof;

the helm!"
wof woof!"




It is often the case that when a boat is stove, its crew, being picked
Wf wf wooof wof woof woof woof w woof wf wooof, wof woof, wooof woooof

up by another boat, help to work that second boat; and the chase is thus
wf wf wooooof woof, woof wf woof woof woooof woof; wof wof wooof wf woof

continued with what is called double-banked oars. It was thus now. But
wooooooof woof woof wf woooof woooof-woooof woof. Wf wof woof wof. Wof

the added power of the boat did not equal the added power of the whale,
wof wooof wooof wf wof woof wof wof wooof wof wooof wooof wf wof wooof,

for he seemed to have treble-banked his every fin; swimming with a
wof wf woooof wf woof woooof-woooof wof wooof wof; woooooof woof w

velocity which plainly showed, that if now, under these circumstances,
woooooof wooof wooooof woooof, woof wf wof, wooof wooof wooooooooooof,

pushed on, the chase would prove an indefinitely prolonged, if not a
woooof wf, wof wooof wooof wooof wf woooooooooof wooooooof, wf wof w

hopeless one; nor could any crew endure for so long a period, such an
woooooof wof; wof wooof wof woof woooof wof wf woof w woooof, woof wf

unintermitted, intense straining at the oar; a thing barely tolerable
wooooooooooof, wooooof wooooooof wf wof wof; w wooof woooof wooooooof

only in some one brief vicissitude. The ship itself, then, as it
woof wf woof wof wooof wooooooooof. Wof woof woooof, woof, wf wf

sometimes happens, offered the most promising intermediate means of
wooooooof wooooof, wooooof wof woof wooooooof woooooooooof wooof wf

overtaking the chase. Accordingly, the boats now made for her, and were
woooooooof wof wooof. Wooooooooof, wof wooof wof woof wof wof, wof woof

soon swayed up to their cranes--the two parts of the wrecked boat having
woof woooof wf wf wooof woooof--wof wof wooof wf wof wooooof woof woooof

been previously secured by her--and then hoisting everything to her
woof woooooooof wooooof wf wof--wof woof woooooof woooooooof wf wof

side, and stacking her canvas high up, and sideways outstretching it
woof, wof woooooof wof woooof woof wf, wof woooooof wooooooooooof wf

with stun-sails, like the double-jointed wings of an albatross; the
woof woof-wooof, woof wof woooof-wooooof wooof wf wf wooooooof; wof

Pequod bore down in the leeward wake of Moby-Dick. At the well known,
Woooof woof woof wf wof wooooof woof wf Woof-Woof. Wf wof woof wooof,

methodic intervals, the whale's glittering spout was regularly announced
woooooof wooooooof, wof wooof'w woooooooof wooof wof wooooooof wooooooof

from the manned mast-heads; and when he would be reported as just gone
woof wof woooof woof-wooof; wof woof wf wooof wf woooooof wf woof woof

down, Ahab would take the time, and then pacing the deck, binnacle-watch
woof, Woof wooof woof wof woof, wof woof woooof wof woof, woooooof-wooof

in hand, so soon as the last second of the allotted hour expired, his
wf woof, wf woof wf wof woof woooof wf wof woooooof woof wooooof, wof

voice was heard.--"Whose is the doubloon now? D'ye see him?" and if the
wooof wof wooof.--"Wooof wf wof woooooof wof? W'wf wof wof?" wof wf wof

reply was, No, sir! straightway he commanded them to lift him to his
wooof wof, Wf, wof! wooooooooof wf wooooooof woof wf woof wof wf wof

perch. In this way the day wore on; Ahab, now aloft and motionless;
wooof. Wf woof wof wof wof woof wf; Woof, wof wooof wof woooooooof;

anon, unrestingly pacing the planks.
woof, wooooooooof woooof wof woooof.




As he was thus walking, uttering no sound, except to hail the men aloft,
Wf wf wof woof wooooof, woooooof wf wooof, woooof wf woof wof wof wooof,

or to bid them hoist a sail still higher, or to spread one to a still
wf wf wof woof wooof w woof wooof woooof, wf wf woooof wof wf w wooof

greater breadth--thus to and fro pacing, beneath his slouched hat, at
wooooof wooooof--woof wf wof wof woooof, wooooof wof woooooof wof, wf

every turn he passed his own wrecked boat, which had been dropped upon
wooof woof wf woooof wof wof wooooof woof, wooof wof woof wooooof woof

the quarter-deck, and lay there reversed; broken bow to shattered stern.
wof wooooof-woof, wof wof wooof woooooof; woooof wof wf wooooooof wooof.

At last he paused before it; and as in an already over-clouded sky fresh
Wf woof wf woooof woooof wf; wof wf wf wf wooooof woof-wooooof wof wooof

troops of clouds will sometimes sail across, so over the old man's face
woooof wf woooof woof wooooooof woof woooof, wf woof wof wof wof'w woof

there now stole some such added gloom as this.
wooof wof wooof woof woof wooof wooof wf woof.




Stubb saw him pause; and perhaps intending, not vainly, though, to
Wooof wof wof wooof; wof wooooof wooooooof, wof woooof, woooof, wf

evince his own unabated fortitude, and thus keep up a valiant place in
woooof wof wof woooooof wooooooof, wof woof woof wf w wooooof wooof wf

his Captain's mind, he advanced, and eyeing the wreck exclaimed--"The
wof Wooooof'w woof, wf woooooof, wof woooof wof wooof wooooooof--"Wof

thistle the ass refused; it pricked his mouth too keenly, sir; ha! ha!"
wooooof wof wof wooooof; wf wooooof wof wooof wof woooof, wof; wf! wf!"




"What soulless thing is this that laughs before a wreck? Man, man! did
"Woof woooooof wooof wf woof woof woooof woooof w wooof? Wof, wof! wof

I not know thee brave as fearless fire (and as mechanical) I could swear
W wof woof woof wooof wf woooooof woof (wof wf woooooooof) W wooof wooof

thou wert a poltroon. Groan nor laugh should be heard before a wreck."
woof woof w woooooof. Wooof wof wooof woooof wf wooof woooof w wooof."




"Aye, sir," said Starbuck drawing near, "'tis a solemn sight; an omen,
"Wof, wof," woof Woooooof wooooof woof, "'wof w woooof wooof; wf woof,

and an ill one."
wof wf wof wof."




"Omen? omen?--the dictionary! If the gods think to speak outright to
"Woof? woof?--wof woooooooof! Wf wof woof wooof wf wooof woooooof wf

man, they will honourably speak outright; not shake their heads, and
wof, woof woof woooooooof wooof woooooof; wof wooof wooof wooof, wof

give an old wives' darkling hint.--Begone! Ye two are the opposite poles
woof wf wof wooof' woooooof woof.--Woooof! Wf wof wof wof woooooof wooof

of one thing; Starbuck is Stubb reversed, and Stubb is Starbuck; and
wf wof wooof; Woooooof wf Wooof woooooof, wof Wooof wf Woooooof; wof

ye two are all mankind; and Ahab stands alone among the millions of
wf wof wof wof wooooof; wof Woof woooof wooof wooof wof woooooof wf

the peopled earth, nor gods nor men his neighbors! Cold, cold--I
wof wooooof wooof, wof woof wof wof wof wooooooof! Woof, woof--W

shiver!--How now? Aloft there! D'ye see him? Sing out for every spout,
woooof!--Wof wof? Wooof wooof! W'wf wof wof? Woof wof wof wooof wooof,

though he spout ten times a second!"
woooof wf wooof wof wooof w woooof!"




The day was nearly done; only the hem of his golden robe was rustling.
Wof wof wof woooof woof; woof wof wof wf wof woooof woof wof woooooof.

Soon, it was almost dark, but the look-out men still remained unset.
Woof, wf wof woooof woof, wof wof woof-wof wof wooof woooooof wooof.




"Can't see the spout now, sir;--too dark"--cried a voice from the air.
"Wof'w wof wof wooof wof, wof;--wof woof"--wooof w wooof woof wof wof.




"How heading when last seen?"
"Wof wooooof woof woof woof?"




"As before, sir,--straight to leeward."
"Wf woooof, wof,--woooooof wf wooooof."




"Good! he will travel slower now 'tis night. Down royals and top-gallant
"Woof! wf woof woooof woooof wof 'wof wooof. Woof woooof wof wof-wooooof

stun-sails, Mr. Starbuck. We must not run over him before morning; he's
woof-wooof, Wf. Woooooof. Wf woof wof wof woof wof woooof wooooof; wf'w

making a passage now, and may heave-to a while. Helm there! keep her
woooof w wooooof wof, wof wof wooof-wf w wooof. Woof wooof! woof wof

full before the wind!--Aloft! come down!--Mr. Stubb, send a fresh hand
woof woooof wof woof!--Wooof! woof woof!--Wf. Wooof, woof w wooof woof

to the fore-mast head, and see it manned till morning."--Then advancing
wf wof woof-woof woof, wof wof wf woooof woof wooooof."--Woof wooooooof

towards the doubloon in the main-mast--"Men, this gold is mine, for I
wooooof wof woooooof wf wof woof-woof--"Wof, woof woof wf woof, wof W

earned it; but I shall let it abide here till the White Whale is dead;
woooof wf; wof W wooof wof wf wooof woof woof wof Wooof Wooof wf woof;

and then, whosoever of ye first raises him, upon the day he shall be
wof woof, wooooooof wf wf wooof woooof wof, woof wof wof wf wooof wf

killed, this gold is that man's; and if on that day I shall again raise
woooof, woof woof wf woof wof'w; wof wf wf woof wof W wooof wooof wooof

him, then, ten times its sum shall be divided among all of ye! Away
wof, woof, wof wooof wof wof wooof wf wooooof wooof wof wf wf! Woof

now!--the deck is thine, sir!"
wof!--wof woof wf wooof, wof!"




And so saying, he placed himself half way within the scuttle, and
Wof wf woooof, wf woooof wooooof woof wof woooof wof wooooof, wof

slouching his hat, stood there till dawn, except when at intervals
wooooooof wof wof, wooof wooof woof woof, woooof woof wf wooooooof

rousing himself to see how the night wore on.
wooooof wooooof wf wof wof wof wooof woof wf.










CHAPTER 134. The Chase--Second Day.
WOOOOOF wof. Wof Wooof--Woooof Wof.







At day-break, the three mast-heads were punctually manned afresh.
Wf wof-wooof, wof wooof woof-wooof woof woooooooof woooof woooof.




"D'ye see him?" cried Ahab after allowing a little space for the light
"W'wf wof wof?" wooof Woof wooof woooooof w woooof wooof wof wof wooof

to spread.
wf woooof.




"See nothing, sir."
"Wof wooooof, wof."




"Turn up all hands and make sail! he travels faster than I thought
"Woof wf wof wooof wof woof woof! wf wooooof woooof woof W wooooof

for;--the top-gallant sails!--aye, they should have been kept on her all
wof;--wof wof-wooooof wooof!--wof, woof woooof woof woof woof wf wof wof

night. But no matter--'tis but resting for the rush."
wooof. Wof wf woooof--'wof wof wooooof wof wof woof."




Here be it said, that this pertinacious pursuit of one particular whale,
Woof wf wf woof, woof woof woooooooooof wooooof wf wof woooooooof wooof,

continued through day into night, and through night into day, is a thing
wooooooof wooooof wof woof wooof, wof wooooof wooof woof wof, wf w wooof

by no means unprecedented in the South sea fishery. For such is the
wf wf wooof wooooooooooof wf wof Wooof wof wooooof. Wof woof wf wof

wonderful skill, prescience of experience, and invincible confidence
wooooooof wooof, woooooooof wf woooooooof, wof woooooooof woooooooof

acquired by some great natural geniuses among the Nantucket commanders;
woooooof wf woof wooof wooooof woooooof wooof wof Wooooooof woooooooof;

that from the simple observation of a whale when last descried, they
woof woof wof woooof wooooooooof wf w wooof woof woof woooooof, woof

will, under certain given circumstances, pretty accurately foretell both
woof, wooof wooooof wooof wooooooooooof, woooof woooooooof woooooof woof

the direction in which he will continue to swim for a time, while out of
wof wooooooof wf wooof wf woof woooooof wf woof wof w woof, wooof wof wf

sight, as well as his probable rate of progression during that period.
wooof, wf woof wf wof woooooof woof wf wooooooooof woooof woof woooof.

And, in these cases, somewhat as a pilot, when about losing sight of
Wof, wf wooof wooof, woooooof wf w wooof, woof wooof woooof wooof wf

a coast, whose general trending he well knows, and which he desires
w wooof, wooof wooooof woooooof wf woof wooof, wof wooof wf wooooof

shortly to return to again, but at some further point; like as this
wooooof wf woooof wf wooof, wof wf woof wooooof wooof; woof wf woof

pilot stands by his compass, and takes the precise bearing of the
wooof woooof wf wof wooooof, wof wooof wof wooooof wooooof wf wof

cape at present visible, in order the more certainly to hit aright
woof wf wooooof wooooof, wf wooof wof woof wooooooof wf wof woooof

the remote, unseen headland, eventually to be visited: so does the
wof woooof, woooof woooooof, woooooooof wf wf wooooof: wf woof wof

fisherman, at his compass, with the whale; for after being chased, and
wooooooof, wf wof wooooof, woof wof wooof; wof wooof wooof woooof, wof

diligently marked, through several hours of daylight, then, when night
woooooooof woooof, wooooof wooooof wooof wf woooooof, woof, woof wooof

obscures the fish, the creature's future wake through the darkness
woooooof wof woof, wof woooooof'w woooof woof wooooof wof woooooof

is almost as established to the sagacious mind of the hunter, as the
wf woooof wf wooooooooof wf wof wooooooof woof wf wof woooof, wf wof

pilot's coast is to him. So that to this hunter's wondrous skill, the
wooof'w wooof wf wf wof. Wf woof wf woof woooof'w woooooof wooof, wof

proverbial evanescence of a thing writ in water, a wake, is to all
woooooooof wooooooooof wf w wooof woof wf wooof, w woof, wf wf wof

desired purposes well nigh as reliable as the steadfast land. And as the
wooooof woooooof woof woof wf woooooof wf wof wooooooof woof. Wof wf wof

mighty iron Leviathan of the modern railway is so familiarly known in
woooof woof Wooooooof wf wof woooof wooooof wf wf woooooooof wooof wf

its every pace, that, with watches in their hands, men time his rate as
wof wooof woof, woof, woof wooooof wf wooof wooof, wof woof wof woof wf

doctors that of a baby's pulse; and lightly say of it, the up train or
wooooof woof wf w woof'w wooof; wof wooooof wof wf wf, wof wf wooof wf

the down train will reach such or such a spot, at such or such an hour;
wof woof wooof woof wooof woof wf woof w woof, wf woof wf woof wf woof;

even so, almost, there are occasions when these Nantucketers time that
woof wf, woooof, wooof wof wooooooof woof wooof Woooooooooof woof woof

other Leviathan of the deep, according to the observed humor of his
wooof Wooooooof wf wof woof, wooooooof wf wof woooooof wooof wf wof

speed; and say to themselves, so many hours hence this whale will have
wooof; wof wof wf woooooooof, wf woof wooof wooof woof wooof woof woof

gone two hundred miles, will have about reached this or that degree of
woof wof wooooof wooof, woof woof wooof wooooof woof wf woof woooof wf

latitude or longitude. But to render this acuteness at all successful in
woooooof wf wooooooof. Wof wf woooof woof wooooooof wf wof woooooooof wf

the end, the wind and the sea must be the whaleman's allies; for of what
wof wof, wof woof wof wof wof woof wf wof woooooof'w woooof; wof wf woof

present avail to the becalmed or windbound mariner is the skill that
wooooof wooof wf wof woooooof wf wooooooof wooooof wf wof wooof woof

assures him he is exactly ninety-three leagues and a quarter from his
wooooof wof wf wf wooooof woooof-wooof wooooof wof w wooooof woof wof

port? Inferable from these statements, are many collateral subtile
woof? Wooooooof woof wooof woooooooof, wof woof woooooooof wooooof

matters touching the chase of whales.
wooooof woooooof wof wooof wf woooof.




The ship tore on; leaving such a furrow in the sea as when a
Wof woof woof wf; wooooof woof w woooof wf wof wof wf woof w

cannon-ball, missent, becomes a plough-share and turns up the level
woooof-woof, wooooof, wooooof w woooof-wooof wof wooof wf wof wooof

field.
wooof.




"By salt and hemp!" cried Stubb, "but this swift motion of the deck
"Wf woof wof woof!" wooof Wooof, "wof woof wooof woooof wf wof woof

creeps up one's legs and tingles at the heart. This ship and I are two
woooof wf wof'w woof wof wooooof wf wof wooof. Woof woof wof W wof wof

brave fellows!--Ha, ha! Some one take me up, and launch me, spine-wise,
wooof wooooof!--Wf, wf! Woof wof woof wf wf, wof woooof wf, wooof-woof,

on the sea,--for by live-oaks! my spine's a keel. Ha, ha! we go the gait
wf wof wof,--wof wf woof-woof! wf wooof'w w woof. Wf, wf! wf wf wof woof

that leaves no dust behind!"
woof woooof wf woof woooof!"




"There she blows--she blows!--she blows!--right ahead!" was now the
"Wooof wof wooof--wof wooof!--wof wooof!--wooof wooof!" wof wof wof

mast-head cry.
woof-woof wof.




"Aye, aye!" cried Stubb, "I knew it--ye can't escape--blow on and
"Wof, wof!" wooof Wooof, "W woof wf--wf wof'w woooof--woof wf wof

split your spout, O whale! the mad fiend himself is after ye! blow your
wooof woof wooof, W wooof! wof wof wooof wooooof wf wooof wf! woof woof

trump--blister your lungs!--Ahab will dam off your blood, as a miller
wooof--wooooof woof wooof!--Woof woof wof wof woof wooof, wf w woooof

shuts his watergate upon the stream!"
wooof wof wooooooof woof wof woooof!"




And Stubb did but speak out for well nigh all that crew. The frenzies
Wof Wooof wof wof wooof wof wof woof woof wof woof woof. Wof woooooof

of the chase had by this time worked them bubblingly up, like old wine
wf wof wooof wof wf woof woof woooof woof woooooooof wf, woof wof woof

worked anew. Whatever pale fears and forebodings some of them might
woooof woof. Woooooof woof wooof wof wooooooooof woof wf woof wooof

have felt before; these were not only now kept out of sight through the
woof woof woooof; wooof woof wof woof wof woof wof wf wooof wooooof wof

growing awe of Ahab, but they were broken up, and on all sides routed,
wooooof wof wf Woof, wof woof woof woooof wf, wof wf wof wooof woooof,

as timid prairie hares that scatter before the bounding bison. The hand
wf wooof wooooof wooof woof wooooof woooof wof woooooof wooof. Wof woof

of Fate had snatched all their souls; and by the stirring perils of
wf Woof wof woooooof wof wooof wooof; wof wf wof woooooof woooof wf

the previous day; the rack of the past night's suspense; the fixed,
wof woooooof wof; wof woof wf wof woof wooof'w woooooof; wof wooof,

unfearing, blind, reckless way in which their wild craft went plunging
wooooooof, wooof, woooooof wof wf wooof wooof woof wooof woof woooooof

towards its flying mark; by all these things, their hearts were bowled
wooooof wof woooof woof; wf wof wooof woooof, wooof woooof woof woooof

along. The wind that made great bellies of their sails, and rushed the
wooof. Wof woof woof woof wooof wooooof wf wooof wooof, wof woooof wof

vessel on by arms invisible as irresistible; this seemed the symbol of
woooof wf wf woof wooooooof wf woooooooooof; woof woooof wof woooof wf

that unseen agency which so enslaved them to the race.
woof woooof woooof wooof wf woooooof woof wf wof woof.




They were one man, not thirty. For as the one ship that held them all;
Woof woof wof wof, wof woooof. Wof wf wof wof woof woof woof woof wof;

though it was put together of all contrasting things--oak, and maple,
woooof wf wof wof woooooof wf wof wooooooooof woooof--wof, wof wooof,

and pine wood; iron, and pitch, and hemp--yet all these ran into each
wof woof woof; woof, wof wooof, wof woof--wof wof wooof wof woof woof

other in the one concrete hull, which shot on its way, both balanced and
wooof wf wof wof woooooof woof, wooof woof wf wof wof, woof woooooof wof

directed by the long central keel; even so, all the individualities of
woooooof wf wof woof wooooof woof; woof wf, wof wof wooooooooooooof wf

the crew, this man's valor, that man's fear; guilt and guiltiness, all
wof woof, woof wof'w wooof, woof wof'w woof; wooof wof woooooooof, wof

varieties were welded into oneness, and were all directed to that fatal
wooooooof woof woooof woof wooooof, wof woof wof woooooof wf woof wooof

goal which Ahab their one lord and keel did point to.
woof wooof Woof wooof wof woof wof woof wof wooof wf.




The rigging lived. The mast-heads, like the tops of tall palms, were
Wof wooooof wooof. Wof woof-wooof, woof wof woof wf woof wooof, woof

outspreadingly tufted with arms and legs. Clinging to a spar with one
woooooooooooof woooof woof woof wof woof. Woooooof wf w woof woof wof

hand, some reached forth the other with impatient wavings; others,
woof, woof wooooof wooof wof wooof woof wooooooof wooooof; woooof,

shading their eyes from the vivid sunlight, sat far out on the rocking
wooooof wooof woof woof wof wooof woooooof, wof wof wof wf wof wooooof

yards; all the spars in full bearing of mortals, ready and ripe for
wooof; wof wof wooof wf woof wooooof wf wooooof, wooof wof woof wof

their fate. Ah! how they still strove through that infinite blueness to
wooof woof. Wf! wof woof wooof woooof wooooof woof woooooof woooooof wf

seek out the thing that might destroy them!
woof wof wof wooof woof wooof wooooof woof!




"Why sing ye not out for him, if ye see him?" cried Ahab, when, after
"Wof woof wf wof wof wof wof, wf wf wof wof?" wooof Woof, woof, wooof

the lapse of some minutes since the first cry, no more had been heard.
wof wooof wf woof wooooof wooof wof wooof wof, wf woof wof woof wooof.

"Sway me up, men; ye have been deceived; not Moby Dick casts one odd jet
"Woof wf wf, wof; wf woof woof woooooof; wof Woof Woof wooof wof wof wof

that way, and then disappears."
woof wof, wof woof woooooooof."




It was even so; in their headlong eagerness, the men had mistaken some
Wf wof woof wf; wf wooof woooooof wooooooof, wof wof wof woooooof woof

other thing for the whale-spout, as the event itself soon proved; for
wooof wooof wof wof wooof-wooof, wf wof wooof woooof woof woooof; wof

hardly had Ahab reached his perch; hardly was the rope belayed to its
woooof wof Woof wooooof wof wooof; woooof wof wof woof wooooof wf wof

pin on deck, when he struck the key-note to an orchestra, that made the
wof wf woof, woof wf woooof wof wof-woof wf wf wooooooof, woof woof wof

air vibrate as with the combined discharges of rifles. The triumphant
wof wooooof wf woof wof woooooof woooooooof wf woooof. Wof woooooooof

halloo of thirty buckskin lungs was heard, as--much nearer to the ship
woooof wf woooof woooooof wooof wof wooof, wf--woof woooof wf wof woof

than the place of the imaginary jet, less than a mile ahead--Moby Dick
woof wof wooof wf wof wooooooof wof, woof woof w woof wooof--Woof Woof

bodily burst into view! For not by any calm and indolent spoutings; not
woooof wooof woof woof! Wof wof wf wof woof wof woooooof wooooooof; wof

by the peaceable gush of that mystic fountain in his head, did the White
wf wof wooooooof woof wf woof woooof woooooof wf wof woof, wof wof Wooof

Whale now reveal his vicinity; but by the far more wondrous phenomenon
Wooof wof woooof wof woooooof; wof wf wof wof woof woooooof woooooooof

of breaching. Rising with his utmost velocity from the furthest depths,
wf wooooooof. Woooof woof wof woooof woooooof woof wof woooooof woooof,

the Sperm Whale thus booms his entire bulk into the pure element of
wof Wooof Wooof woof wooof wof woooof woof woof wof woof wooooof wf

air, and piling up a mountain of dazzling foam, shows his place to the
wof, wof woooof wf w woooooof wf woooooof woof, wooof wof wooof wf wof

distance of seven miles and more. In those moments, the torn, enraged
woooooof wf wooof wooof wof woof. Wf wooof wooooof, wof woof, wooooof

waves he shakes off, seem his mane; in some cases, this breaching is his
wooof wf woooof wof, woof wof woof; wf woof wooof, woof wooooooof wf wof

act of defiance.
wof wf woooooof.




"There she breaches! there she breaches!" was the cry, as in his
"Wooof wof woooooof! wooof wof woooooof!" wof wof wof, wf wf wof

immeasurable bravadoes the White Whale tossed himself salmon-like to
woooooooooof wooooooof wof Wooof Wooof woooof wooooof woooof-woof wf

Heaven. So suddenly seen in the blue plain of the sea, and relieved
Woooof. Wf woooooof woof wf wof woof wooof wf wof wof, wof woooooof

against the still bluer margin of the sky, the spray that he raised, for
wooooof wof wooof wooof woooof wf wof wof, wof wooof woof wf woooof, wof

the moment, intolerably glittered and glared like a glacier; and
wof woooof, wooooooooof wooooooof wof woooof woof w wooooof; wof

stood there gradually fading and fading away from its first sparkling
wooof wooof wooooooof woooof wof woooof woof woof wof wooof wooooooof

intensity, to the dim mistiness of an advancing shower in a vale.
wooooooof, wf wof wof wooooooof wf wf wooooooof woooof wf w woof.




"Aye, breach your last to the sun, Moby Dick!" cried Ahab, "thy hour and
"Wof, woooof woof woof wf wof wof, Woof Woof!" wooof Woof, "wof woof wof

thy harpoon are at hand!--Down! down all of ye, but one man at the fore.
wof wooooof wof wf woof!--Woof! woof wof wf wf, wof wof wof wf wof woof.

The boats!--stand by!"
Wof wooof!--wooof wf!"




Unmindful of the tedious rope-ladders of the shrouds, the men, like
Wooooooof wf wof wooooof woof-wooooof wf wof wooooof, wof wof, woof

shooting stars, slid to the deck, by the isolated backstays and
woooooof wooof, woof wf wof woof, wf wof woooooof wooooooof wof

halyards; while Ahab, less dartingly, but still rapidly was dropped from
woooooof; wooof Woof, woof wooooooof, wof wooof wooooof wof wooooof woof

his perch.
wof wooof.




"Lower away," he cried, so soon as he had reached his boat--a spare one,
"Wooof woof," wf wooof, wf woof wf wf wof wooooof wof woof--w wooof wof,

rigged the afternoon previous. "Mr. Starbuck, the ship is thine--keep
woooof wof wooooooof woooooof. "Wf. Woooooof, wof woof wf wooof--woof

away from the boats, but keep near them. Lower, all!"
woof woof wof wooof, wof woof woof woof. Wooof, wof!"




As if to strike a quick terror into them, by this time being the first
Wf wf wf woooof w wooof woooof woof woof, wf woof woof wooof wof wooof

assailant himself, Moby Dick had turned, and was now coming for the
wooooooof wooooof, Woof Woof wof woooof, wof wof wof woooof wof wof

three crews. Ahab's boat was central; and cheering his men, he told them
wooof wooof. Woof'w woof wof wooooof; wof woooooof wof wof, wf woof woof

he would take the whale head-and-head,--that is, pull straight up to his
wf wooof woof wof wooof woof-wof-woof,--woof wf, woof woooooof wf wf wof

forehead,--a not uncommon thing; for when within a certain limit, such
woooooof,--w wof woooooof wooof; wof woof woooof w wooooof wooof, woof

a course excludes the coming onset from the whale's sidelong vision.
w woooof woooooof wof woooof wooof woof wof wooof'w woooooof woooof.

But ere that close limit was gained, and while yet all three boats were
Wof wof woof wooof wooof wof woooof, wof wooof wof wof wooof wooof woof

plain as the ship's three masts to his eye; the White Whale churning
wooof wf wof woof'w wooof wooof wf wof wof; wof Wooof Wooof woooooof

himself into furious speed, almost in an instant as it were, rushing
wooooof woof wooooof wooof, woooof wf wf wooooof wf wf woof, wooooof

among the boats with open jaws, and a lashing tail, offered appalling
wooof wof wooof woof woof woof, wof w wooooof woof, wooooof wooooooof

battle on every side; and heedless of the irons darted at him from every
woooof wf wooof woof; wof woooooof wf wof wooof woooof wf wof woof wooof

boat, seemed only intent on annihilating each separate plank of which
woof, woooof woof woooof wf woooooooooof woof woooooof wooof wf wooof

those boats were made. But skilfully manoeuvred, incessantly wheeling
wooof wooof woof woof. Wof wooooooof woooooooof, wooooooooof woooooof

like trained chargers in the field; the boats for a while eluded him;
woof wooooof woooooof wf wof wooof; wof wooof wof w wooof woooof wof;

though, at times, but by a plank's breadth; while all the time, Ahab's
woooof, wf wooof, wof wf w wooof'w wooooof; wooof wof wof woof, Woof'w

unearthly slogan tore every other cry but his to shreds.
wooooooof woooof woof wooof wooof wof wof wof wf woooof.




But at last in his untraceable evolutions, the White Whale so crossed
Wof wf woof wf wof wooooooooof woooooooof, wof Wooof Wooof wf wooooof

and recrossed, and in a thousand ways entangled the slack of the three
wof wooooooof, wof wf w woooooof woof wooooooof wof wooof wf wof wooof

lines now fast to him, that they foreshortened, and, of themselves,
wooof wof woof wf wof, woof woof wooooooooooof, wof, wf woooooooof,

warped the devoted boats towards the planted irons in him; though now
woooof wof wooooof wooof wooooof wof wooooof wooof wf wof; woooof wof

for a moment the whale drew aside a little, as if to rally for a more
wof w woooof wof wooof woof wooof w woooof, wf wf wf wooof wof w woof

tremendous charge. Seizing that opportunity, Ahab first paid out more
woooooooof woooof. Wooooof woof wooooooooof, Woof wooof woof wof woof

line: and then was rapidly hauling and jerking in upon it again--hoping
woof: wof woof wof wooooof wooooof wof wooooof wf woof wf wooof--woooof

that way to disencumber it of some snarls--when lo!--a sight more savage
woof wof wf wooooooooof wf wf woof woooof--woof wf!--w wooof woof woooof

than the embattled teeth of sharks!
woof wof wooooooof wooof wf woooof!




Caught and twisted--corkscrewed in the mazes of the line, loose harpoons
Woooof wof wooooof--wooooooooof wf wof wooof wf wof woof, wooof woooooof

and lances, with all their bristling barbs and points, came flashing
wof woooof, woof wof wooof wooooooof wooof wof woooof, woof woooooof

and dripping up to the chocks in the bows of Ahab's boat. Only one
wof woooooof wf wf wof woooof wf wof woof wf Woof'w woof. Woof wof

thing could be done. Seizing the boat-knife, he critically reached
wooof wooof wf woof. Wooooof wof woof-wooof, wf woooooooof wooooof

within--through--and then, without--the rays of steel; dragged in
woooof--wooooof--wof woof, wooooof--wof woof wf wooof; wooooof wf

the line beyond, passed it, inboard, to the bowsman, and then, twice
wof woof woooof, woooof wf, wooooof, wf wof wooooof, wof woof, wooof

sundering the rope near the chocks--dropped the intercepted fagot of
wooooooof wof woof woof wof woooof--wooooof wof wooooooooof wooof wf

steel into the sea; and was all fast again. That instant, the White
wooof woof wof wof; wof wof wof woof wooof. Woof wooooof, wof Wooof

Whale made a sudden rush among the remaining tangles of the other lines;
Wooof woof w woooof woof wooof wof wooooooof wooooof wf wof wooof wooof;

by so doing, irresistibly dragged the more involved boats of Stubb and
wf wf wooof, woooooooooof wooooof wof woof woooooof wooof wf Wooof wof

Flask towards his flukes; dashed them together like two rolling husks on
Wooof wooooof wof woooof; woooof woof woooooof woof wof wooooof wooof wf

a surf-beaten beach, and then, diving down into the sea, disappeared in
w woof-woooof wooof, wof woof, woooof woof woof wof wof, wooooooooof wf

a boiling maelstrom, in which, for a space, the odorous cedar chips of
w wooooof wooooooof, wf wooof, wof w wooof, wof wooooof wooof wooof wf

the wrecks danced round and round, like the grated nutmeg in a swiftly
wof woooof woooof wooof wof wooof, woof wof woooof woooof wf w wooooof

stirred bowl of punch.
wooooof woof wf wooof.




While the two crews were yet circling in the waters, reaching out after
Wooof wof wof wooof woof wof woooooof wf wof woooof, woooooof wof wooof

the revolving line-tubs, oars, and other floating furniture, while
wof wooooooof woof-woof, woof, wof wooof woooooof wooooooof, wooof

aslope little Flask bobbed up and down like an empty vial, twitching his
woooof woooof Wooof woooof wf wof woof woof wf wooof woof, wooooooof wof

legs upwards to escape the dreaded jaws of sharks; and Stubb was lustily
woof wooooof wf woooof wof wooooof woof wf woooof; wof Wooof wof wooooof

singing out for some one to ladle him up; and while the old man's
wooooof wof wof woof wof wf wooof wof wf; wof wooof wof wof wof'w

line--now parting--admitted of his pulling into the creamy pool to
woof--wof wooooof--woooooof wf wof wooooof woof wof woooof woof wf

rescue whom he could;--in that wild simultaneousness of a thousand
woooof woof wf wooof;--wf woof woof woooooooooooooof wf w woooooof

concreted perils,--Ahab's yet unstricken boat seemed drawn up towards
wooooooof woooof,--Woof'w wof woooooooof woof woooof wooof wf wooooof

Heaven by invisible wires,--as, arrow-like, shooting perpendicularly
Woooof wf wooooooof wooof,--wf, wooof-woof, woooooof wooooooooooooof

from the sea, the White Whale dashed his broad forehead against its
woof wof wof, wof Wooof Wooof woooof wof wooof woooooof wooooof wof

bottom, and sent it, turning over and over, into the air; till it fell
woooof, wof woof wf, wooooof woof wof woof, woof wof wof; woof wf woof

again--gunwale downwards--and Ahab and his men struggled out from under
wooof--wooooof wooooooof--wof Woof wof wof wof wooooooof wof woof wooof

it, like seals from a sea-side cave.
wf, woof wooof woof w wof-woof woof.




The first uprising momentum of the whale--modifying its direction as
Wof wooof woooooof woooooof wf wof wooof--wooooooof wof wooooooof wf

he struck the surface--involuntarily launched him along it, to a little
wf woooof wof wooooof--wooooooooooof woooooof wof wooof wf, wf w woooof

distance from the centre of the destruction he had made; and with his
woooooof woof wof woooof wf wof wooooooooof wf wof woof; wof woof wof

back to it, he now lay for a moment slowly feeling with his flukes from
woof wf wf, wf wof wof wof w woooof woooof wooooof woof wof woooof woof

side to side; and whenever a stray oar, bit of plank, the least chip
woof wf woof; wof woooooof w wooof wof, wof wf wooof, wof wooof woof

or crumb of the boats touched his skin, his tail swiftly drew back, and
wf wooof wf wof wooof wooooof wof woof, wof woof wooooof woof woof, wof

came sideways smiting the sea. But soon, as if satisfied that his work
woof woooooof wooooof wof wof. Wof woof, wf wf wooooooof woof wof woof

for that time was done, he pushed his pleated forehead through the
wof woof woof wof woof, wf woooof wof wooooof woooooof wooooof wof

ocean, and trailing after him the intertangled lines, continued his
wooof, wof woooooof wooof wof wof woooooooooof wooof, wooooooof wof

leeward way at a traveller's methodic pace.
wooooof wof wf w wooooooof'w woooooof woof.




As before, the attentive ship having descried the whole fight, again
Wf woooof, wof wooooooof woof woooof woooooof wof wooof wooof, wooof

came bearing down to the rescue, and dropping a boat, picked up the
woof wooooof woof wf wof woooof, wof woooooof w woof, woooof wf wof

floating mariners, tubs, oars, and whatever else could be caught at, and
woooooof woooooof, woof, woof, wof woooooof woof wooof wf woooof wf, wof

safely landed them on her decks. Some sprained shoulders, wrists, and
woooof woooof woof wf wof wooof. Woof woooooof wooooooof, woooof, wof

ankles; livid contusions; wrenched harpoons and lances; inextricable
woooof; wooof woooooooof; woooooof woooooof wof woooof; woooooooooof

intricacies of rope; shattered oars and planks; all these were there;
wooooooooof wf woof; wooooooof woof wof woooof; wof wooof woof wooof;

but no fatal or even serious ill seemed to have befallen any one. As
wof wf wooof wf woof wooooof wof woooof wf woof woooooof wof wof. Wf

with Fedallah the day before, so Ahab was now found grimly clinging to
woof Woooooof wof wof woooof, wf Woof wof wof wooof woooof woooooof wf

his boat's broken half, which afforded a comparatively easy float; nor
wof woof'w woooof woof, wooof woooooof w wooooooooooof woof wooof; wof

did it so exhaust him as the previous day's mishap.
wof wf wf wooooof wof wf wof woooooof wof'w woooof.




But when he was helped to the deck, all eyes were fastened upon him; as
Wof woof wf wof woooof wf wof woof, wof woof woof woooooof woof wof; wf

instead of standing by himself he still half-hung upon the shoulder of
wooooof wf woooooof wf wooooof wf wooof woof-woof woof wof woooooof wf

Starbuck, who had thus far been the foremost to assist him. His ivory
Woooooof, wof wof woof wof woof wof woooooof wf woooof wof. Wof wooof

leg had been snapped off, leaving but one short sharp splinter.
wof wof woof wooooof wof, wooooof wof wof wooof wooof woooooof.




"Aye, aye, Starbuck, 'tis sweet to lean sometimes, be the leaner who he
"Wof, wof, Woooooof, 'wof wooof wf woof wooooooof, wf wof woooof wof wf

will; and would old Ahab had leaned oftener than he has."
woof; wof wooof wof Woof wof woooof wooooof woof wf wof."




"The ferrule has not stood, sir," said the carpenter, now coming up; "I
"Wof wooooof wof wof wooof, wof," woof wof wooooooof, wof woooof wf; "W

put good work into that leg."
wof woof woof woof woof wof."




"But no bones broken, sir, I hope," said Stubb with true concern.
"Wof wf wooof woooof, wof, W woof," woof Wooof woof woof wooooof.




"Aye! and all splintered to pieces, Stubb!--d'ye see it.--But even with
"Wof! wof wof woooooooof wf woooof, Wooof!--w'wf wof wf.--Wof woof woof

a broken bone, old Ahab is untouched; and I account no living bone of
w woooof woof, wof Woof wf wooooooof; wof W wooooof wf woooof woof wf

mine one jot more me, than this dead one that's lost. Nor white whale,
woof wof wof woof wf, woof woof woof wof woof'w woof. Wof wooof wooof,

nor man, nor fiend, can so much as graze old Ahab in his own proper and
wof wof, wof wooof, wof wf woof wf wooof wof Woof wf wof wof woooof wof

inaccessible being. Can any lead touch yonder floor, any mast scrape
woooooooooof wooof. Wof wof woof wooof woooof wooof, wof woof woooof

yonder roof?--Aloft there! which way?"
woooof woof?--Wooof wooof! wooof wof?"




"Dead to leeward, sir."
"Woof wf wooooof, wof."




"Up helm, then; pile on the sail again, ship keepers! down the rest of
"Wf woof, woof; woof wf wof woof wooof, woof wooooof! woof wof woof wf

the spare boats and rig them--Mr. Starbuck away, and muster the boat's
wof wooof wooof wof wof woof--Wf. Woooooof woof, wof woooof wof woof'w

crews."
wooof."




"Let me first help thee towards the bulwarks, sir."
"Wof wf wooof woof woof wooooof wof woooooof, wof."




"Oh, oh, oh! how this splinter gores me now! Accursed fate! that the
"Wf, wf, wf! wof woof woooooof wooof wf wof! Woooooof woof! woof wof

unconquerable captain in the soul should have such a craven mate!"
wooooooooooof wooooof wf wof woof woooof woof woof w woooof woof!"




"Sir?"
"Wof?"




"My body, man, not thee. Give me something for a cane--there, that
"Wf woof, wof, wof woof. Woof wf wooooooof wof w woof--wooof, woof

shivered lance will do. Muster the men. Surely I have not seen him yet.
woooooof wooof woof wf. Woooof wof wof. Woooof W woof wof woof wof wof.

By heaven it cannot be!--missing?--quick! call them all."
Wf woooof wf woooof wf!--wooooof?--wooof! woof woof wof."




The old man's hinted thought was true. Upon mustering the company, the
Wof wof wof'w woooof wooooof wof woof. Woof wooooooof wof wooooof, wof

Parsee was not there.
Woooof wof wof wooof.




"The Parsee!" cried Stubb--"he must have been caught in--"
"Wof Woooof!" wooof Wooof--"wf woof woof woof woooof wf--"




"The black vomit wrench thee!--run all of ye above, alow, cabin,
"Wof wooof wooof woooof woof!--wof wof wf wf wooof, woof, wooof,

forecastle--find him--not gone--not gone!"
woooooooof--woof wof--wof woof--wof woof!"




But quickly they returned to him with the tidings that the Parsee was
Wof wooooof woof woooooof wf wof woof wof wooooof woof wof Woooof wof

nowhere to be found.
wooooof wf wf wooof.




"Aye, sir," said Stubb--"caught among the tangles of your line--I
"Wof, wof," woof Wooof--"woooof wooof wof wooooof wf woof woof--W

thought I saw him dragging under."
wooooof W wof wof woooooof wooof."




"MY line! MY line? Gone?--gone? What means that little word?--What
"WF woof! WF woof? Woof?--woof? Woof wooof woof woooof woof?--Woof

death-knell rings in it, that old Ahab shakes as if he were the belfry.
wooof-wooof wooof wf wf, woof wof Woof woooof wf wf wf woof wof woooof.

The harpoon, too!--toss over the litter there,--d'ye see it?--the forged
Wof wooooof, wof!--woof woof wof woooof wooof,--w'wf wof wf?--wof woooof

iron, men, the white whale's--no, no, no,--blistered fool! this hand did
woof, wof, wof wooof wooof'w--wf, wf, wf,--wooooooof woof! woof woof wof

dart it!--'tis in the fish!--Aloft there! Keep him nailed--Quick!--all
woof wf!--'wof wf wof woof!--Wooof wooof! Woof wof woooof--Wooof!--wof

hands to the rigging of the boats--collect the oars--harpooneers!
wooof wf wof wooooof wf wof wooof--wooooof wof woof--wooooooooof!

the irons, the irons!--hoist the royals higher--a pull on all the
wof wooof, wof wooof!--wooof wof woooof woooof--w woof wf wof wof

sheets!--helm there! steady, steady for your life! I'll ten times girdle
woooof!--woof wooof! woooof, woooof wof woof woof! W'wf wof wooof woooof

the unmeasured globe; yea and dive straight through it, but I'll slay
wof woooooooof wooof; wof wof woof woooooof wooooof wf, wof W'wf woof

him yet!
wof wof!




"Great God! but for one single instant show thyself," cried Starbuck;
"Wooof Wof! wof wof wof woooof wooooof woof wooooof," wooof Woooooof;

"never, never wilt thou capture him, old man--In Jesus' name no more of
"wooof, wooof woof woof wooooof wof, wof wof--Wf Wooof' woof wf woof wf

this, that's worse than devil's madness. Two days chased; twice stove
woof, woof'w wooof woof wooof'w wooooof. Wof woof woooof; wooof wooof

to splinters; thy very leg once more snatched from under thee; thy evil
wf wooooooof; wof woof wof woof woof woooooof woof wooof woof; wof woof

shadow gone--all good angels mobbing thee with warnings:--
woooof woof--wof woof woooof wooooof woof woof woooooof:--




"What more wouldst thou have?--Shall we keep chasing this murderous fish
"Woof woof wooooof woof woof?--Wooof wf woof wooooof woof wooooooof woof

till he swamps the last man? Shall we be dragged by him to the bottom
woof wf woooof wof woof wof? Wooof wf wf wooooof wf wof wf wof woooof

of the sea? Shall we be towed by him to the infernal world? Oh,
wf wof wof? Wooof wf wf wooof wf wof wf wof woooooof wooof? Wf,

oh,--Impiety and blasphemy to hunt him more!"
wf,--Wooooof wof wooooooof wf woof wof woof!"




"Starbuck, of late I've felt strangely moved to thee; ever since that
"Woooooof, wf woof W'wf woof wooooooof wooof wf woof; woof wooof woof

hour we both saw--thou know'st what, in one another's eyes. But in this
woof wf woof wof--woof woof'wf woof, wf wof wooooof'w woof. Wof wf woof

matter of the whale, be the front of thy face to me as the palm of this
woooof wf wof wooof, wf wof wooof wf wof woof wf wf wf wof woof wf woof

hand--a lipless, unfeatured blank. Ahab is for ever Ahab, man. This
woof--w wooooof, woooooooof wooof. Woof wf wof woof Woof, wof. Woof

whole act's immutably decreed. 'Twas rehearsed by thee and me a billion
wooof wof'w wooooooof wooooof. 'Woof wooooooof wf woof wof wf w wooooof

years before this ocean rolled. Fool! I am the Fates' lieutenant; I act
wooof woooof woof wooof woooof. Woof! W wf wof Wooof' woooooooof; W wof

under orders. Look thou, underling! that thou obeyest mine.--Stand round
wooof woooof. Woof woof, wooooooof! woof woof wooooof woof.--Wooof wooof

me, men. Ye see an old man cut down to the stump; leaning on a shivered
wf, wof. Wf wof wf wof wof wof woof wf wof wooof; wooooof wf w woooooof

lance; propped up on a lonely foot. 'Tis Ahab--his body's part; but
wooof; wooooof wf wf w woooof woof. 'Wof Woof--wof woof'w woof; wof

Ahab's soul's a centipede, that moves upon a hundred legs. I feel
Woof'w woof'w w wooooooof, woof wooof woof w wooooof woof. W woof

strained, half stranded, as ropes that tow dismasted frigates in a gale;
woooooof, woof woooooof, wf wooof woof wof wooooooof woooooof wf w woof;

and I may look so. But ere I break, ye'll hear me crack; and till ye hear
wof W wof woof wf. Wof wof W wooof, wf'wf woof wf wooof; wof woof wf woof

THAT, know that Ahab's hawser tows his purpose yet. Believe ye, men, in
WOOF, woof woof Woof'w woooof woof wof wooooof wof. Wooooof wf, wof, wf

the things called omens? Then laugh aloud, and cry encore! For ere they
wof woooof woooof wooof? Woof wooof wooof, wof wof woooof! Wof wof woof

drown, drowning things will twice rise to the surface; then rise again,
wooof, woooooof woooof woof wooof woof wf wof wooooof; woof woof wooof,

to sink for evermore. So with Moby Dick--two days he's floated--tomorrow
wf woof wof woooooof. Wf woof Woof Woof--wof woof wf'w wooooof--woooooof

will be the third. Aye, men, he'll rise once more,--but only to spout
woof wf wof wooof. Wof, wof, wf'wf woof woof woof,--wof woof wf wooof

his last! D'ye feel brave men, brave?"
wof woof! W'wf woof wooof wof, wooof?"




"As fearless fire," cried Stubb.
"Wf woooooof woof," wooof Wooof.




"And as mechanical," muttered Ahab. Then as the men went forward, he
"Wof wf woooooooof," woooooof Woof. Woof wf wof wof woof wooooof, wf

muttered on: "The things called omens! And yesterday I talked the same
woooooof wf: "Wof woooof woooof wooof! Wof wooooooof W woooof wof woof

to Starbuck there, concerning my broken boat. Oh! how valiantly I seek
wf Woooooof wooof, woooooooof wf woooof woof. Wf! wof wooooooof W woof

to drive out of others' hearts what's clinched so fast in mine!--The
wf wooof wof wf woooof' woooof woof'w woooooof wf woof wf woof!--Wof

Parsee--the Parsee!--gone, gone? and he was to go before:--but still was
Woooof--wof Woooof!--woof, woof? wof wf wof wf wf woooof:--wof wooof wof

to be seen again ere I could perish--How's that?--There's a riddle now
wf wf woof wooof wof W wooof woooof--Wof'w woof?--Wooof'w w woooof wof

might baffle all the lawyers backed by the ghosts of the whole line
wooof woooof wof wof wooooof woooof wf wof woooof wf wof wooof woof

of judges:--like a hawk's beak it pecks my brain. I'LL, I'LL solve it,
wf woooof:--woof w woof'w woof wf wooof wf wooof. W'WF, W'WF wooof wf,

though!"
woooof!"




When dusk descended, the whale was still in sight to leeward.
Woof woof wooooooof, wof wooof wof wooof wf wooof wf wooooof.




So once more the sail was shortened, and everything passed nearly as
Wf woof woof wof woof wof wooooooof, wof woooooooof woooof woooof wf

on the previous night; only, the sound of hammers, and the hum of the
wf wof woooooof wooof; woof, wof wooof wf wooooof, wof wof wof wf wof

grindstone was heard till nearly daylight, as the men toiled by lanterns
woooooooof wof wooof woof woooof woooooof, wf wof wof woooof wf woooooof

in the complete and careful rigging of the spare boats and sharpening
wf wof woooooof wof wooooof wooooof wf wof wooof wooof wof woooooooof

their fresh weapons for the morrow. Meantime, of the broken keel of
wooof wooof wooooof wof wof woooof. Woooooof, wf wof woooof woof wf

Ahab's wrecked craft the carpenter made him another leg; while still as
Woof'w wooooof wooof wof wooooooof woof wof wooooof wof; wooof wooof wf

on the night before, slouched Ahab stood fixed within his scuttle; his
wf wof wooof woooof, woooooof Woof wooof wooof woooof wof wooooof; wof

hid, heliotrope glance anticipatingly gone backward on its dial; sat due
wof, woooooooof woooof woooooooooooof woof woooooof wf wof woof; wof wof

eastward for the earliest sun.
woooooof wof wof woooooof wof.










CHAPTER 135. The Chase.--Third Day.
WOOOOOF wof. Wof Wooof.--Wooof Wof.







The morning of the third day dawned fair and fresh, and once more the
Wof wooooof wf wof wooof wof woooof woof wof wooof, wof woof woof wof

solitary night-man at the fore-mast-head was relieved by crowds of the
woooooof wooof-wof wf wof woof-woof-woof wof woooooof wf woooof wf wof

daylight look-outs, who dotted every mast and almost every spar.
woooooof woof-woof, wof woooof wooof woof wof woooof wooof woof.




"D'ye see him?" cried Ahab; but the whale was not yet in sight.
"W'wf wof wof?" wooof Woof; wof wof wooof wof wof wof wf wooof.




"In his infallible wake, though; but follow that wake, that's all. Helm
"Wf wof woooooooof woof, woooof; wof woooof woof woof, woof'w wof. Woof

there; steady, as thou goest, and hast been going. What a lovely day
wooof; woooof, wf woof wooof, wof woof woof wooof. Woof w woooof wof

again! were it a new-made world, and made for a summer-house to the
wooof! woof wf w wof-woof wooof, wof woof wof w woooof-wooof wf wof

angels, and this morning the first of its throwing open to them, a
woooof, wof woof wooooof wof wooof wf wof woooooof woof wf woof, w

fairer day could not dawn upon that world. Here's food for thought, had
woooof wof wooof wof woof woof woof wooof. Woof'w woof wof wooooof, wof

Ahab time to think; but Ahab never thinks; he only feels, feels, feels;
Woof woof wf wooof; wof Woof wooof woooof; wf woof wooof, wooof, wooof;

THAT'S tingling enough for mortal man! to think's audacity. God only has
WOOF'W woooooof woooof wof woooof wof! wf wooof'w woooooof. Wof woof wof

that right and privilege. Thinking is, or ought to be, a coolness and a
woof wooof wof wooooooof. Woooooof wf, wf wooof wf wf, w woooooof wof w

calmness; and our poor hearts throb, and our poor brains beat too much
woooooof; wof wof woof woooof wooof, wof wof woof woooof woof wof woof

for that. And yet, I've sometimes thought my brain was very calm--frozen
wof woof. Wof wof, W'wf wooooooof wooooof wf wooof wof woof woof--woooof

calm, this old skull cracks so, like a glass in which the contents
woof, woof wof wooof woooof wf, woof w wooof wf wooof wof woooooof

turned to ice, and shiver it. And still this hair is growing now; this
woooof wf wof, wof woooof wf. Wof wooof woof woof wf wooooof wof; woof

moment growing, and heat must breed it; but no, it's like that sort
woooof wooooof, wof woof woof wooof wf; wof wf, wf'w woof woof woof

of common grass that will grow anywhere, between the earthy clefts of
wf woooof wooof woof woof woof woooooof, wooooof wof woooof woooof wf

Greenland ice or in Vesuvius lava. How the wild winds blow it; they whip
Wooooooof wof wf wf Woooooof woof. Wof wof woof wooof woof wf; woof woof

it about me as the torn shreds of split sails lash the tossed ship they
wf wooof wf wf wof woof woooof wf wooof wooof woof wof woooof woof woof

cling to. A vile wind that has no doubt blown ere this through prison
wooof wf. W woof woof woof wof wf wooof wooof wof woof wooooof woooof

corridors and cells, and wards of hospitals, and ventilated them, and
wooooooof wof wooof, wof wooof wf wooooooof, wof woooooooof woof, wof

now comes blowing hither as innocent as fleeces. Out upon it!--it's
wof wooof wooooof woooof wf woooooof wf wooooof. Wof woof wf!--wf'w

tainted. Were I the wind, I'd blow no more on such a wicked, miserable
wooooof. Woof W wof woof, W'w woof wf woof wf woof w woooof, wooooooof

world. I'd crawl somewhere to a cave, and slink there. And yet, 'tis a
wooof. W'w wooof wooooooof wf w woof, wof wooof wooof. Wof wof, 'wof w

noble and heroic thing, the wind! who ever conquered it? In every fight
wooof wof woooof wooof, wof woof! wof woof wooooooof wf? Wf wooof wooof

it has the last and bitterest blow. Run tilting at it, and you but run
wf wof wof woof wof wooooooof woof. Wof wooooof wf wf, wof wof wof wof

through it. Ha! a coward wind that strikes stark naked men, but will not
wooooof wf. Wf! w woooof woof woof wooooof wooof wooof wof, wof woof wof

stand to receive a single blow. Even Ahab is a braver thing--a nobler
wooof wf wooooof w woooof woof. Woof Woof wf w woooof wooof--w woooof

thing than THAT. Would now the wind but had a body; but all the things
wooof woof WOOF. Wooof wof wof woof wof wof w woof; wof wof wof woooof

that most exasperate and outrage mortal man, all these things are
woof woof woooooooof wof wooooof woooof wof, wof wooof woooof wof

bodiless, but only bodiless as objects, not as agents. There's a most
woooooof, wof woof woooooof wf wooooof, wof wf woooof. Wooof'w w woof

special, a most cunning, oh, a most malicious difference! And yet, I
wooooof, w woof wooooof, wf, w woof wooooooof woooooooof! Wof wof, W

say again, and swear it now, that there's something all glorious and
wof wooof, wof wooof wf wof, woof wooof'w wooooooof wof woooooof wof

gracious in the wind. These warm Trade Winds, at least, that in the
woooooof wf wof woof. Wooof woof Wooof Wooof, wf wooof, woof wf wof

clear heavens blow straight on, in strong and steadfast, vigorous
wooof wooooof woof woooooof wf, wf woooof wof wooooooof, woooooof

mildness; and veer not from their mark, however the baser currents of
woooooof; wof woof wof woof wooof woof, wooooof wof wooof woooooof wf

the sea may turn and tack, and mightiest Mississippies of the land swift
wof wof wof woof wof woof, wof wooooooof Wooooooooooof wf wof woof wooof

and swerve about, uncertain where to go at last. And by the eternal
wof woooof wooof, wooooooof wooof wf wf wf woof. Wof wf wof wooooof

Poles! these same Trades that so directly blow my good ship on; these
Wooof! wooof woof Woooof woof wf woooooof woof wf woof woof wf; wooof

Trades, or something like them--something so unchangeable, and full as
Woooof, wf wooooooof woof woof--wooooooof wf woooooooooof, wof woof wf

strong, blow my keeled soul along! To it! Aloft there! What d'ye see?"
woooof, woof wf woooof woof wooof! Wf wf! Wooof wooof! Woof w'wf wof?"




"Nothing, sir."
"Wooooof, wof."




"Nothing! and noon at hand! The doubloon goes a-begging! See the sun!
"Wooooof! wof woof wf woof! Wof woooooof woof w-wooooof! Wof wof wof!

Aye, aye, it must be so. I've oversailed him. How, got the start? Aye,
Wof, wof, wf woof wf wf. W'wf woooooooof wof. Wof, wof wof wooof? Wof,

he's chasing ME now; not I, HIM--that's bad; I might have known it, too.
wf'w wooooof WF wof; wof W, WOF--woof'w wof; W wooof woof wooof wf, wof.

Fool! the lines--the harpoons he's towing. Aye, aye, I have run him by
Woof! wof wooof--wof woooooof wf'w woooof. Wof, wof, W woof wof wof wf

last night. About! about! Come down, all of ye, but the regular look
woof wooof. Wooof! wooof! Woof woof, wof wf wf, wof wof wooooof woof

outs! Man the braces!"
woof! Wof wof woooof!"




Steering as she had done, the wind had been somewhat on the Pequod's
Woooooof wf wof wof woof, wof woof wof woof woooooof wf wof Woooof'w

quarter, so that now being pointed in the reverse direction, the braced
wooooof, wf woof wof wooof wooooof wf wof wooooof wooooooof, wof woooof

ship sailed hard upon the breeze as she rechurned the cream in her own
woof woooof woof woof wof woooof wf wof wooooooof wof wooof wf wof wof

white wake.
wooof woof.




"Against the wind he now steers for the open jaw," murmured Starbuck to
"Wooooof wof woof wf wof woooof wof wof woof wof," woooooof Woooooof wf

himself, as he coiled the new-hauled main-brace upon the rail. "God keep
wooooof, wf wf woooof wof wof-woooof woof-wooof woof wof woof. "Wof woof

us, but already my bones feel damp within me, and from the inside wet my
wf, wof wooooof wf wooof woof woof woooof wf, wof woof wof woooof wof wf

flesh. I misdoubt me that I disobey my God in obeying him!"
wooof. W woooooof wf woof W wooooof wf Wof wf wooooof wof!"




"Stand by to sway me up!" cried Ahab, advancing to the hempen basket.
"Wooof wf wf woof wf wf!" wooof Woof, wooooooof wf wof woooof woooof.

"We should meet him soon."
"Wf woooof woof wof woof."




"Aye, aye, sir," and straightway Starbuck did Ahab's bidding, and once
"Wof, wof, wof," wof wooooooooof Woooooof wof Woof'w wooooof, wof woof

more Ahab swung on high.
woof Woof wooof wf woof.




A whole hour now passed; gold-beaten out to ages. Time itself now held
W wooof woof wof woooof; woof-woooof wof wf woof. Woof woooof wof woof

long breaths with keen suspense. But at last, some three points off the
woof wooooof woof woof woooooof. Wof wf woof, woof wooof woooof wof wof

weather bow, Ahab descried the spout again, and instantly from the three
wooooof wof, Woof woooooof wof wooof wooof, wof wooooooof woof wof wooof

mast-heads three shrieks went up as if the tongues of fire had voiced
woof-wooof wooof wooooof woof wf wf wf wof wooooof wf woof wof woooof

it.
wf.




"Forehead to forehead I meet thee, this third time, Moby Dick! On deck
"Woooooof wf woooooof W woof woof, woof wooof woof, Woof Woof! Wf woof

there!--brace sharper up; crowd her into the wind's eye. He's too
wooof!--wooof wooooof wf; wooof wof woof wof woof'w wof. Wf'w wof

far off to lower yet, Mr. Starbuck. The sails shake! Stand over that
wof wof wf wooof wof, Wf. Woooooof. Wof wooof wooof! Wooof woof woof

helmsman with a top-maul! So, so; he travels fast, and I must down. But
woooooof woof w wof-woof! Wf, wf; wf wooooof woof, wof W woof woof. Wof

let me have one more good round look aloft here at the sea; there's
wof wf woof wof woof woof wooof woof wooof woof wf wof wof; wooof'w

time for that. An old, old sight, and yet somehow so young; aye, and
woof wof woof. Wf wof, wof wooof, wof wof wooooof wf wooof; wof, wof

not changed a wink since I first saw it, a boy, from the sand-hills of
wof wooooof w woof wooof W wooof wof wf, w wof, woof wof woof-wooof wf

Nantucket! The same!--the same!--the same to Noah as to me. There's
Wooooooof! Wof woof!--wof woof!--wof woof wf Woof wf wf wf. Wooof'w

a soft shower to leeward. Such lovely leewardings! They must lead
w woof woooof wf wooooof. Woof woooof wooooooooof! Woof woof woof

somewhere--to something else than common land, more palmy than the
wooooooof--wf wooooooof woof woof woooof woof, woof wooof woof wof

palms. Leeward! the white whale goes that way; look to windward,
wooof. Wooooof! wof wooof wooof woof woof wof; woof wf woooooof,

then; the better if the bitterer quarter. But good bye, good bye, old
woof; wof woooof wf wof woooooof wooooof. Wof woof wof, woof wof, wof

mast-head! What's this?--green? aye, tiny mosses in these warped cracks.
woof-woof! Woof'w woof?--wooof? wof, woof woooof wf wooof woooof woooof.

No such green weather stains on Ahab's head! There's the difference now
Wf woof wooof wooooof woooof wf Woof'w woof! Wooof'w wof woooooooof wof

between man's old age and matter's. But aye, old mast, we both grow old
wooooof wof'w wof wof wof woooof'w. Wof wof, wof woof, wf woof woof wof

together; sound in our hulls, though, are we not, my ship? Aye, minus
woooooof; wooof wf wof wooof, woooof, wof wf wof, wf woof? Wof, wooof

a leg, that's all. By heaven this dead wood has the better of my live
w wof, woof'w wof. Wf woooof woof woof woof wof wof woooof wf wf woof

flesh every way. I can't compare with it; and I've known some ships made
wooof wooof wof. W wof'w wooooof woof wf; wof W'wf wooof woof wooof woof

of dead trees outlast the lives of men made of the most vital stuff of
wf woof wooof wooooof wof wooof wf wof woof wf wof woof wooof wooof wf

vital fathers. What's that he said? he should still go before me, my
wooof wooooof. Woof'w woof wf woof? wf woooof wooof wf woooof wf, wf

pilot; and yet to be seen again? But where? Will I have eyes at the
wooof; wof wof wf wf woof wooof? Wof wooof? Woof W woof woof wf wof

bottom of the sea, supposing I descend those endless stairs? and all
woooof wf wof wof, wooooooof W wooooof wooof wooooof woooof? wof wof

night I've been sailing from him, wherever he did sink to. Aye, aye,
wooof W'wf woof wooooof woof wof, woooooof wf wof woof wf. Wof, wof,

like many more thou told'st direful truth as touching thyself, O Parsee;
woof woof woof woof woof'wf wooooof wooof wf woooooof wooooof, W Woooof;

but, Ahab, there thy shot fell short. Good-bye, mast-head--keep a good
wof, Woof, wooof wof woof woof wooof. Woof-wof, woof-woof--woof w woof

eye upon the whale, the while I'm gone. We'll talk to-morrow, nay,
wof woof wof wooof, wof wooof W'w woof. Wf'wf woof wf-woooof, wof,

to-night, when the white whale lies down there, tied by head and tail."
wf-wooof, woof wof wooof wooof woof woof wooof, woof wf woof wof woof."




He gave the word; and still gazing round him, was steadily lowered
Wf woof wof woof; wof wooof woooof wooof wof, wof woooooof wooooof

through the cloven blue air to the deck.
wooooof wof woooof woof wof wf wof woof.




In due time the boats were lowered; but as standing in his shallop's
Wf wof woof wof wooof woof wooooof; wof wf woooooof wf wof wooooof'w

stern, Ahab just hovered upon the point of the descent, he waved to the
wooof, Woof woof wooooof woof wof wooof wf wof wooooof, wf wooof wf wof

mate,--who held one of the tackle-ropes on deck--and bade him pause.
woof,--wof woof wof wf wof woooof-wooof wf woof--wof woof wof wooof.




"Starbuck!"
"Woooooof!"




"Sir?"
"Wof?"




"For the third time my soul's ship starts upon this voyage, Starbuck."
"Wof wof wooof woof wf woof'w woof woooof woof woof woooof, Woooooof."




"Aye, sir, thou wilt have it so."
"Wof, wof, woof woof woof wf wf."




"Some ships sail from their ports, and ever afterwards are missing,
"Woof wooof woof woof wooof wooof, wof woof woooooooof wof wooooof,

Starbuck!"
Woooooof!"




"Truth, sir: saddest truth."
"Wooof, wof: wooooof wooof."




"Some men die at ebb tide; some at low water; some at the full of
"Woof wof wof wf wof woof; woof wf wof wooof; woof wf wof woof wf

the flood;--and I feel now like a billow that's all one crested comb,
wof wooof;--wof W woof wof woof w woooof woof'w wof wof wooooof woof,

Starbuck. I am old;--shake hands with me, man."
Woooooof. W wf wof;--wooof wooof woof wf, wof."




Their hands met; their eyes fastened; Starbuck's tears the glue.
Wooof wooof wof; wooof woof woooooof; Woooooof'w wooof wof woof.




"Oh, my captain, my captain!--noble heart--go not--go not!--see, it's a
"Wf, wf wooooof, wf wooooof!--wooof wooof--wf wof--wf wof!--wof, wf'w w

brave man that weeps; how great the agony of the persuasion then!"
wooof wof woof wooof; wof wooof wof wooof wf wof woooooooof woof!"




"Lower away!"--cried Ahab, tossing the mate's arm from him. "Stand by
"Wooof woof!"--wooof Woof, wooooof wof woof'w wof woof wof. "Wooof wf

the crew!"
wof woof!"




In an instant the boat was pulling round close under the stern.
Wf wf wooooof wof woof wof wooooof wooof wooof wooof wof wooof.




"The sharks! the sharks!" cried a voice from the low cabin-window there;
"Wof woooof! wof woooof!" wooof w wooof woof wof wof wooof-woooof wooof;

"O master, my master, come back!"
"W woooof, wf woooof, woof woof!"




But Ahab heard nothing; for his own voice was high-lifted then; and the
Wof Woof wooof wooooof; wof wof wof wooof wof woof-woooof woof; wof wof

boat leaped on.
woof woooof wf.




Yet the voice spake true; for scarce had he pushed from the ship, when
Wof wof wooof wooof woof; wof woooof wof wf woooof woof wof woof, woof

numbers of sharks, seemingly rising from out the dark waters beneath
wooooof wf woooof, wooooooof woooof woof wof wof woof woooof wooooof

the hull, maliciously snapped at the blades of the oars, every time they
wof woof, wooooooooof wooooof wf wof woooof wf wof woof, wooof woof woof

dipped in the water; and in this way accompanied the boat with their
woooof wf wof wooof; wof wf woof wof wooooooooof wof woof woof wooof

bites. It is a thing not uncommonly happening to the whale-boats in
wooof. Wf wf w wooof wof woooooooof wooooooof wf wof wooof-wooof wf

those swarming seas; the sharks at times apparently following them in
wooof woooooof woof; wof woooof wf wooof woooooooof wooooooof woof wf

the same prescient way that vultures hover over the banners of marching
wof woof wooooooof wof woof woooooof wooof woof wof wooooof wf woooooof

regiments in the east. But these were the first sharks that had been
wooooooof wf wof woof. Wof wooof woof wof wooof woooof woof wof woof

observed by the Pequod since the White Whale had been first descried;
woooooof wf wof Woooof wooof wof Wooof Wooof wof woof wooof woooooof;

and whether it was that Ahab's crew were all such tiger-yellow
wof wooooof wf wof woof Woof'w woof woof wof woof wooof-woooof

barbarians, and therefore their flesh more musky to the senses of the
woooooooof, wof wooooooof wooof wooof woof wooof wf wof woooof wf wof

sharks--a matter sometimes well known to affect them,--however it was,
woooof--w woooof wooooooof woof wooof wf woooof woof,--wooooof wf wof,

they seemed to follow that one boat without molesting the others.
woof woooof wf woooof woof wof woof wooooof wooooooof wof woooof.




"Heart of wrought steel!" murmured Starbuck gazing over the side, and
"Wooof wf wooooof wooof!" woooooof Woooooof woooof woof wof woof, wof

following with his eyes the receding boat--"canst thou yet ring boldly
wooooooof woof wof woof wof woooooof woof--"wooof woof wof woof woooof

to that sight?--lowering thy keel among ravening sharks, and followed by
wf woof wooof?--woooooof wof woof wooof woooooof woooof, wof woooooof wf

them, open-mouthed to the chase; and this the critical third day?--For
woof, woof-wooooof wf wof wooof; wof woof wof woooooof wooof wof?--Wof

when three days flow together in one continuous intense pursuit; be sure
woof wooof woof woof woooooof wf wof woooooooof wooooof wooooof; wf woof

the first is the morning, the second the noon, and the third the evening
wof wooof wf wof wooooof, wof woooof wof woof, wof wof wooof wof wooooof

and the end of that thing--be that end what it may. Oh! my God! what
wof wof wof wf woof wooof--wf woof wof woof wf wof. Wf! wf Wof! woof

is this that shoots through me, and leaves me so deadly calm, yet
wf woof woof woooof wooooof wf, wof woooof wf wf woooof woof, wof

expectant,--fixed at the top of a shudder! Future things swim before me,
wooooooof,--wooof wf wof wof wf w wooooof! Woooof woooof woof woooof wf,

as in empty outlines and skeletons; all the past is somehow grown dim.
wf wf wooof woooooof wof wooooooof; wof wof woof wf wooooof wooof wof.

Mary, girl! thou fadest in pale glories behind me; boy! I seem to
Woof, woof! woof woooof wf woof wooooof woooof wf; wof! W woof wf

see but thy eyes grown wondrous blue. Strangest problems of life seem
wof wof wof woof wooof woooooof woof. Wooooooof woooooof wf woof woof

clearing; but clouds sweep between--Is my journey's end coming? My legs
woooooof; wof woooof wooof wooooof--Wf wf wooooof'w wof woooof? Wf woof

feel faint; like his who has footed it all day. Feel thy heart,--beats
woof wooof; woof wof wof wof woooof wf wof wof. Woof wof wooof,--wooof

it yet? Stir thyself, Starbuck!--stave it off--move, move!
wf wof? Woof wooooof, Woooooof!--wooof wf wof--woof, woof!

speak aloud!--Mast-head there! See ye my boy's hand on the
wooof wooof!--Woof-woof wooof! Wof wf wf wof'w woof wf wof

hill?--Crazed;--aloft there!--keep thy keenest eye upon the boats:--
woof?--Woooof;--wooof wooof!--woof wof wooooof wof woof wof wooof:--




"Mark well the whale!--Ho! again!--drive off that hawk! see! he pecks--he
"Woof woof wof wooof!--Wf! wooof!--wooof wof woof woof! wof! wf wooof--wf

tears the vane"--pointing to the red flag flying at the main-truck--"Ha!
wooof wof woof"--woooooof wf wof wof woof woooof wf wof woof-wooof--"Wf!

he soars away with it!--Where's the old man now? see'st thou that sight,
wf wooof woof woof wf!--Wooof'w wof wof wof wof? wof'wf woof woof wooof,

oh Ahab!--shudder, shudder!"
wf Woof!--wooooof, wooooof!"




The boats had not gone very far, when by a signal from the mast-heads--a
Wof wooof wof wof woof woof wof, woof wf w woooof woof wof woof-wooof--w

downward pointed arm, Ahab knew that the whale had sounded; but
woooooof wooooof wof, Woof woof woof wof wooof wof wooooof; wof

intending to be near him at the next rising, he held on his way a little
wooooooof wf wf woof wof wf wof woof woooof, wf woof wf wof wof w woooof

sideways from the vessel; the becharmed crew maintaining the profoundest
woooooof woof wof woooof; wof wooooooof woof wooooooooof wof wooooooooof

silence, as the head-beat waves hammered and hammered against the
wooooof, wf wof woof-woof wooof woooooof wof woooooof wooooof wof

opposing bow.
woooooof wof.




"Drive, drive in your nails, oh ye waves! to their uttermost heads
"Wooof, wooof wf woof wooof, wf wf wooof! wf wooof wooooooof wooof

drive them in! ye but strike a thing without a lid; and no coffin and no
wooof woof wf! wf wof woooof w wooof wooooof w wof; wof wf woooof wof wf

hearse can be mine:--and hemp only can kill me! Ha! ha!"
woooof wof wf woof:--wof woof woof wof woof wf! Wf! wf!"




Suddenly the waters around them slowly swelled in broad circles; then
Woooooof wof woooof woooof woof woooof wooooof wf wooof wooooof; woof

quickly upheaved, as if sideways sliding from a submerged berg of
wooooof woooooof, wf wf woooooof wooooof woof w wooooooof woof wf

ice, swiftly rising to the surface. A low rumbling sound was heard; a
wof, wooooof woooof wf wof wooooof. W wof woooooof wooof wof wooof; w

subterraneous hum; and then all held their breaths; as bedraggled with
wooooooooooof wof; wof woof wof woof wooof wooooof; wf woooooooof woof

trailing ropes, and harpoons, and lances, a vast form shot lengthwise,
woooooof wooof, wof woooooof, wof woooof, w woof woof woof woooooooof,

but obliquely from the sea. Shrouded in a thin drooping veil of mist, it
wof wooooooof woof wof wof. Woooooof wf w woof woooooof woof wf woof, wf

hovered for a moment in the rainbowed air; and then fell swamping back
wooooof wof w woooof wf wof wooooooof wof; wof woof woof woooooof woof

into the deep. Crushed thirty feet upwards, the waters flashed for
woof wof woof. Wooooof woooof woof wooooof, wof woooof wooooof wof

an instant like heaps of fountains, then brokenly sank in a shower of
wf wooooof woof wooof wf wooooooof, woof woooooof woof wf w woooof wf

flakes, leaving the circling surface creamed like new milk round the
woooof, wooooof wof woooooof wooooof wooooof woof wof woof wooof wof

marble trunk of the whale.
woooof wooof wf wof wooof.




"Give way!" cried Ahab to the oarsmen, and the boats darted forward to
"Woof wof!" wooof Woof wf wof wooooof, wof wof wooof woooof wooooof wf

the attack; but maddened by yesterday's fresh irons that corroded in
wof woooof; wof woooooof wf wooooooof'w wooof wooof woof woooooof wf

him, Moby Dick seemed combinedly possessed by all the angels that fell
wof, Woof Woof woooof woooooooof wooooooof wf wof wof woooof woof woof

from heaven. The wide tiers of welded tendons overspreading his broad
woof woooof. Wof woof wooof wf woooof wooooof wooooooooooof wof wooof

white forehead, beneath the transparent skin, looked knitted together;
wooof woooooof, wooooof wof wooooooooof woof, woooof wooooof woooooof;

as head on, he came churning his tail among the boats; and once more
wf woof wf, wf woof woooooof wof woof wooof wof wooof; wof woof woof

flailed them apart; spilling out the irons and lances from the two
wooooof woof wooof; woooooof wof wof wooof wof woooof woof wof wof

mates' boats, and dashing in one side of the upper part of their bows,
wooof' wooof, wof wooooof wf wof woof wf wof wooof woof wf wooof woof,

but leaving Ahab's almost without a scar.
wof wooooof Woof'w woooof wooooof w woof.




While Daggoo and Queequeg were stopping the strained planks; and as the
Wooof Woooof wof Woooooof woof woooooof wof woooooof woooof; wof wf wof

whale swimming out from them, turned, and showed one entire flank as he
wooof woooooof wof woof woof, woooof, wof woooof wof woooof wooof wf wf

shot by them again; at that moment a quick cry went up. Lashed round
woof wf woof wooof; wf woof woooof w wooof wof woof wf. Woooof wooof

and round to the fish's back; pinioned in the turns upon turns in which,
wof wooof wf wof woof'w woof; woooooof wf wof wooof woof wooof wf wooof,

during the past night, the whale had reeled the involutions of the lines
woooof wof woof wooof, wof wooof wof woooof wof wooooooooof wf wof wooof

around him, the half torn body of the Parsee was seen; his sable raiment
woooof wof, wof woof woof woof wf wof Woooof wof woof; wof wooof wooooof

frayed to shreds; his distended eyes turned full upon old Ahab.
woooof wf woooof; wof wooooooof woof woooof woof woof wof Woof.




The harpoon dropped from his hand.
Wof wooooof wooooof woof wof woof.




"Befooled, befooled!"--drawing in a long lean breath--"Aye, Parsee! I
"Woooooof, woooooof!"--wooooof wf w woof woof woooof--"Wof, Woooof! W

see thee again.--Aye, and thou goest before; and this, THIS then is the
wof woof wooof.--Wof, wof woof wooof woooof; wof woof, WOOF woof wf wof

hearse that thou didst promise. But I hold thee to the last letter of
woooof woof woof wooof wooooof. Wof W woof woof wf wof woof woooof wf

thy word. Where is the second hearse? Away, mates, to the ship! those
wof woof. Wooof wf wof woooof woooof? Woof, wooof, wf wof woof! wooof

boats are useless now; repair them if ye can in time, and return to
wooof wof wooooof wof; woooof woof wf wf wof wf woof, wof woooof wf

me; if not, Ahab is enough to die--Down, men! the first thing that but
wf; wf wof, Woof wf woooof wf wof--Woof, wof! wof wooof wooof woof wof

offers to jump from this boat I stand in, that thing I harpoon. Ye are
woooof wf woof woof woof woof W wooof wf, woof wooof W wooooof. Wf wof

not other men, but my arms and my legs; and so obey me.--Where's the
wof wooof wof, wof wf woof wof wf woof; wof wf woof wf.--Wooof'w wof

whale? gone down again?"
wooof? woof woof wooof?"




But he looked too nigh the boat; for as if bent upon escaping with the
Wof wf woooof wof woof wof woof; wof wf wf woof woof woooooof woof wof

corpse he bore, and as if the particular place of the last encounter had
woooof wf woof, wof wf wf wof woooooooof wooof wf wof woof wooooooof wof

been but a stage in his leeward voyage, Moby Dick was now again steadily
woof wof w wooof wf wof wooooof woooof, Woof Woof wof wof wooof woooooof

swimming forward; and had almost passed the ship,--which thus far had
woooooof wooooof; wof wof woooof woooof wof woof,--wooof woof wof wof

been sailing in the contrary direction to him, though for the present
woof wooooof wf wof woooooof wooooooof wf wof, woooof wof wof wooooof

her headway had been stopped. He seemed swimming with his utmost
wof wooooof wof woof wooooof. Wf woooof woooooof woof wof woooof

velocity, and now only intent upon pursuing his own straight path in the
woooooof, wof wof woof woooof woof woooooof wof wof woooooof woof wf wof

sea.
wof.




"Oh! Ahab," cried Starbuck, "not too late is it, even now, the third
"Wf! Woof," wooof Woooooof, "wof wof woof wf wf, woof wof, wof wooof

day, to desist. See! Moby Dick seeks thee not. It is thou, thou, that
wof, wf woooof. Wof! Woof Woof wooof woof wof. Wf wf woof, woof, woof

madly seekest him!"
wooof wooooof wof!"




Setting sail to the rising wind, the lonely boat was swiftly impelled to
Wooooof woof wf wof woooof woof, wof woooof woof wof wooooof woooooof wf

leeward, by both oars and canvas. And at last when Ahab was sliding
wooooof, wf woof woof wof woooof. Wof wf woof woof Woof wof wooooof

by the vessel, so near as plainly to distinguish Starbuck's face as he
wf wof woooof, wf woof wf wooooof wf wooooooooof Woooooof'w woof wf wf

leaned over the rail, he hailed him to turn the vessel about, and follow
woooof woof wof woof, wf woooof wof wf woof wof woooof wooof, wof woooof

him, not too swiftly, at a judicious interval. Glancing upwards, he
wof, wof wof wooooof, wf w wooooooof woooooof. Woooooof wooooof, wf

saw Tashtego, Queequeg, and Daggoo, eagerly mounting to the three
wof Woooooof, Woooooof, wof Woooof, wooooof woooooof wf wof wooof

mast-heads; while the oarsmen were rocking in the two staved boats
woof-wooof; wooof wof wooooof woof wooooof wf wof wof woooof wooof

which had but just been hoisted to the side, and were busily at work in
wooof wof wof woof woof wooooof wf wof woof, wof woof woooof wf woof wf

repairing them. One after the other, through the port-holes, as he sped,
wooooooof woof. Wof wooof wof wooof, wooooof wof woof-wooof, wf wf woof,

he also caught flying glimpses of Stubb and Flask, busying themselves
wf woof woooof woooof woooooof wf Wooof wof Wooof, wooooof woooooooof

on deck among bundles of new irons and lances. As he saw all this; as he
wf woof wooof wooooof wf wof wooof wof woooof. Wf wf wof wof woof; wf wf

heard the hammers in the broken boats; far other hammers seemed driving
wooof wof wooooof wf wof woooof wooof; wof wooof wooooof woooof wooooof

a nail into his heart. But he rallied. And now marking that the vane or
w woof woof wof wooof. Wof wf wooooof. Wof wof wooooof woof wof woof wf

flag was gone from the main-mast-head, he shouted to Tashtego, who had
woof wof woof woof wof woof-woof-woof, wf wooooof wf Woooooof, wof wof

just gained that perch, to descend again for another flag, and a hammer
woof woooof woof wooof, wf wooooof wooof wof wooooof woof, wof w woooof

and nails, and so nail it to the mast.
wof wooof, wof wf woof wf wf wof woof.




Whether fagged by the three days' running chase, and the resistance
Wooooof woooof wf wof wooof woof' wooooof wooof, wof wof woooooooof

to his swimming in the knotted hamper he bore; or whether it was some
wf wof woooooof wf wof wooooof woooof wf woof; wf wooooof wf wof woof

latent deceitfulness and malice in him: whichever was true, the White
woooof wooooooooooof wof woooof wf wof: wooooooof wof woof, wof Wooof

Whale's way now began to abate, as it seemed, from the boat so rapidly
Wooof'w wof wof wooof wf wooof, wf wf woooof, woof wof woof wf wooooof

nearing him once more; though indeed the whale's last start had not been
wooooof wof woof woof; woooof woooof wof wooof'w woof wooof wof wof woof

so long a one as before. And still as Ahab glided over the waves the
wf woof w wof wf woooof. Wof wooof wf Woof woooof woof wof wooof wof

unpitying sharks accompanied him; and so pertinaciously stuck to the
wooooooof woooof wooooooooof wof; wof wf woooooooooooof wooof wf wof

boat; and so continually bit at the plying oars, that the blades became
woof; wof wf wooooooooof wof wf wof woooof woof, woof wof woooof woooof

jagged and crunched, and left small splinters in the sea, at almost
woooof wof woooooof, wof woof wooof wooooooof wf wof wof, wf woooof

every dip.
wooof wof.




"Heed them not! those teeth but give new rowlocks to your oars. Pull on!
"Woof woof wof! wooof wooof wof woof wof woooooof wf woof woof. Woof wf!

'tis the better rest, the shark's jaw than the yielding water."
'wof wof woooof woof, wof wooof'w wof woof wof woooooof wooof."




"But at every bite, sir, the thin blades grow smaller and smaller!"
"Wof wf wooof woof, wof, wof woof woooof woof wooooof wof wooooof!"




"They will last long enough! pull on!--But who can tell"--he
"Woof woof woof woof woooof! woof wf!--Wof wof wof woof"--wf

muttered--"whether these sharks swim to feast on the whale or on
woooooof--"wooooof wooof woooof woof wf wooof wf wof wooof wf wf

Ahab?--But pull on! Aye, all alive, now--we near him. The helm! take the
Woof?--Wof woof wf! Wof, wof wooof, wof--wf woof wof. Wof woof! woof wof

helm! let me pass,"--and so saying two of the oarsmen helped him forward
woof! wof wf woof,"--wof wf woooof wof wf wof wooooof woooof wof wooooof

to the bows of the still flying boat.
wf wof woof wf wof wooof woooof woof.




At length as the craft was cast to one side, and ran ranging along
Wf woooof wf wof wooof wof woof wf wof woof, wof wof wooooof wooof

with the White Whale's flank, he seemed strangely oblivious of its
woof wof Wooof Wooof'w wooof, wf woooof wooooooof wooooooof wf wof

advance--as the whale sometimes will--and Ahab was fairly within the
wooooof--wf wof wooof wooooooof woof--wof Woof wof woooof woooof wof

smoky mountain mist, which, thrown off from the whale's spout, curled
wooof woooooof woof, wooof, woooof wof woof wof wooof'w wooof, woooof

round his great, Monadnock hump; he was even thus close to him; when,
wooof wof wooof, Wooooooof woof; wf wof woof woof wooof wf wof; woof,

with body arched back, and both arms lengthwise high-lifted to the
woof woof woooof woof, wof woof woof woooooooof woof-woooof wf wof

poise, he darted his fierce iron, and his far fiercer curse into the
wooof, wf woooof wof woooof woof, wof wof wof wooooof wooof woof wof

hated whale. As both steel and curse sank to the socket, as if sucked
wooof wooof. Wf woof wooof wof wooof woof wf wof woooof, wf wf woooof

into a morass, Moby Dick sideways writhed; spasmodically rolled his nigh
woof w woooof, Woof Woof woooooof wooooof; wooooooooooof woooof wof woof

flank against the bow, and, without staving a hole in it, so suddenly
wooof wooooof wof wof, wof, wooooof wooooof w woof wf wf, wf woooooof

canted the boat over, that had it not been for the elevated part of the
woooof wof woof woof, woof wof wf wof woof wof wof woooooof woof wf wof

gunwale to which he then clung, Ahab would once more have been tossed
wooooof wf wooof wf woof wooof, Woof wooof woof woof woof woof woooof

into the sea. As it was, three of the oarsmen--who foreknew not the
woof wof wof. Wf wf wof, wooof wf wof wooooof--wof woooooof wof wof

precise instant of the dart, and were therefore unprepared for its
wooooof wooooof wf wof woof, wof woof wooooooof woooooooof wof wof

effects--these were flung out; but so fell, that, in an instant two of
wooooof--wooof woof wooof wof; wof wf woof, woof, wf wf wooooof wof wf

them clutched the gunwale again, and rising to its level on a combing
woof woooooof wof wooooof wooof, wof woooof wf wof wooof wf w wooooof

wave, hurled themselves bodily inboard again; the third man helplessly
woof, woooof woooooooof woooof wooooof wooof; wof wooof wof woooooooof

dropping astern, but still afloat and swimming.
woooooof woooof, wof wooof woooof wof woooooof.




Almost simultaneously, with a mighty volition of ungraduated,
Woooof woooooooooooof, woof w woooof woooooof wf wooooooooof,

instantaneous swiftness, the White Whale darted through the weltering
wooooooooooof wooooooof, wof Wooof Wooof woooof wooooof wof wooooooof

sea. But when Ahab cried out to the steersman to take new turns with
wof. Wof woof Woof wooof wof wf wof wooooooof wf woof wof wooof woof

the line, and hold it so; and commanded the crew to turn round on their
wof woof, wof woof wf wf; wof wooooooof wof woof wf woof wooof wf wooof

seats, and tow the boat up to the mark; the moment the treacherous line
wooof, wof wof wof woof wf wf wof woof; wof woooof wof wooooooooof woof

felt that double strain and tug, it snapped in the empty air!
woof woof woooof woooof wof wof, wf wooooof wf wof wooof wof!




"What breaks in me? Some sinew cracks!--'tis whole again; oars! oars!
"Woof woooof wf wf? Woof wooof woooof!--'wof wooof wooof; woof! woof!

Burst in upon him!"
Wooof wf woof wof!"




Hearing the tremendous rush of the sea-crashing boat, the whale wheeled
Wooooof wof woooooooof woof wf wof wof-woooooof woof, wof wooof wooooof

round to present his blank forehead at bay; but in that evolution,
wooof wf wooooof wof wooof woooooof wf wof; wof wf woof wooooooof,

catching sight of the nearing black hull of the ship; seemingly seeing
woooooof wooof wf wof wooooof wooof woof wf wof woof; wooooooof woooof

in it the source of all his persecutions; bethinking it--it may be--a
wf wf wof woooof wf wof wof woooooooooof; woooooooof wf--wf wof wf--w

larger and nobler foe; of a sudden, he bore down upon its advancing
woooof wof woooof wof; wf w woooof, wf woof woof woof wof wooooooof

prow, smiting his jaws amid fiery showers of foam.
woof, wooooof wof woof woof wooof wooooof wf woof.




Ahab staggered; his hand smote his forehead. "I grow blind; hands!
Woof wooooooof; wof woof wooof wof woooooof. "W woof wooof; wooof!

stretch out before me that I may yet grope my way. Is't night?"
wooooof wof woooof wf woof W wof wof wooof wf wof. Wf'w wooof?"




"The whale! The ship!" cried the cringing oarsmen.
"Wof wooof! Wof woof!" wooof wof woooooof wooooof.




"Oars! oars! Slope downwards to thy depths, O sea, that ere it be for
"Woof! woof! Wooof wooooooof wf wof woooof, W wof, woof wof wf wf wof

ever too late, Ahab may slide this last, last time upon his mark! I see:
woof wof woof, Woof wof wooof woof woof, woof woof woof wof woof! W wof:

the ship! the ship! Dash on, my men! Will ye not save my ship?"
wof woof! wof woof! Woof wf, wf wof! Woof wf wof woof wf woof?"




But as the oarsmen violently forced their boat through the
Wof wf wof wooooof wooooooof woooof wooof woof wooooof wof

sledge-hammering seas, the before whale-smitten bow-ends of two planks
woooof-wooooooof woof, wof woooof wooof-wooooof wof-woof wf wof woooof

burst through, and in an instant almost, the temporarily disabled boat
wooof wooooof, wof wf wf wooooof woooof, wof wooooooooof woooooof woof

lay nearly level with the waves; its half-wading, splashing crew, trying
wof woooof wooof woof wof wooof; wof woof-woooof, wooooooof woof, woooof

hard to stop the gap and bale out the pouring water.
woof wf woof wof wof wof woof wof wof wooooof wooof.




Meantime, for that one beholding instant, Tashtego's mast-head hammer
Woooooof, wof woof wof wooooooof wooooof, Woooooof'w woof-woof woooof

remained suspended in his hand; and the red flag, half-wrapping him as
woooooof wooooooof wf wof woof; wof wof wof woof, woof-woooooof wof wf

with a plaid, then streamed itself straight out from him, as his own
woof w wooof, woof woooooof woooof woooooof wof woof wof, wf wof wof

forward-flowing heart; while Starbuck and Stubb, standing upon the
wooooof-wooooof wooof; wooof Woooooof wof Wooof, woooooof woof wof

bowsprit beneath, caught sight of the down-coming monster just as soon
woooooof wooooof, woooof wooof wf wof woof-woooof wooooof woof wf woof

as he.
wf wf.




"The whale, the whale! Up helm, up helm! Oh, all ye sweet powers of air,
"Wof wooof, wof wooof! Wf woof, wf woof! Wf, wof wf wooof woooof wf wof,

now hug me close! Let not Starbuck die, if die he must, in a woman's
wof wof wf wooof! Wof wof Woooooof wof, wf wof wf woof, wf w wooof'w

fainting fit. Up helm, I say--ye fools, the jaw! the jaw! Is this the
woooooof wof. Wf woof, W wof--wf wooof, wof wof! wof wof! Wf woof wof

end of all my bursting prayers? all my life-long fidelities? Oh, Ahab,
wof wf wof wf woooooof wooooof? wof wf woof-woof woooooooof? Wf, Woof,

Ahab, lo, thy work. Steady! helmsman, steady. Nay, nay! Up helm again!
Woof, wf, wof woof. Woooof! woooooof, woooof. Wof, wof! Wf woof wooof!

He turns to meet us! Oh, his unappeasable brow drives on towards one,
Wf wooof wf woof wf! Wf, wof woooooooooof woof woooof wf wooooof wof,

whose duty tells him he cannot depart. My God, stand by me now!"
wooof woof wooof wof wf woooof woooof. Wf Wof, wooof wf wf wof!"




"Stand not by me, but stand under me, whoever you are that will now help
"Wooof wof wf wf, wof wooof wooof wf, wooooof wof wof woof woof wof woof

Stubb; for Stubb, too, sticks here. I grin at thee, thou grinning whale!
Wooof; wof Wooof, wof, woooof woof. W woof wf woof, woof woooooof wooof!

Who ever helped Stubb, or kept Stubb awake, but Stubb's own unwinking
Wof woof woooof Wooof, wf woof Wooof wooof, wof Wooof'w wof wooooooof

eye? And now poor Stubb goes to bed upon a mattrass that is all too
wof? Wof wof woof Wooof woof wf wof woof w woooooof woof wf wof wof

soft; would it were stuffed with brushwood! I grin at thee, thou
woof; wooof wf woof wooooof woof wooooooof! W woof wf woof, woof

grinning whale! Look ye, sun, moon, and stars! I call ye assassins of
woooooof wooof! Woof wf, wof, woof, wof wooof! W woof wf wooooooof wf

as good a fellow as ever spouted up his ghost. For all that, I would yet
wf woof w woooof wf woof wooooof wf wof wooof. Wof wof woof, W wooof wof

ring glasses with ye, would ye but hand the cup! Oh, oh! oh, oh! thou
woof wooooof woof wf, wooof wf wof woof wof wof! Wf, wf! wf, wf! woof

grinning whale, but there'll be plenty of gulping soon! Why fly ye
woooooof wooof, wof wooof'wf wf woooof wf wooooof woof! Wof wof wf

not, O Ahab! For me, off shoes and jacket to it; let Stubb die in
wof, W Woof! Wof wf, wof wooof wof woooof wf wf; wof Wooof wof wf

his drawers! A most mouldy and over salted death, though;--cherries!
wof wooooof! W woof woooof wof woof woooof wooof, woooof;--woooooof!

cherries! cherries! Oh, Flask, for one red cherry ere we die!"
woooooof! woooooof! Wf, Wooof, wof wof wof woooof wof wf wof!"




"Cherries? I only wish that we were where they grow. Oh, Stubb, I hope
"Woooooof? W woof woof woof wf woof wooof woof woof. Wf, Wooof, W woof

my poor mother's drawn my part-pay ere this; if not, few coppers will
wf woof woooof'w wooof wf woof-wof wof woof; wf wof, wof wooooof woof

now come to her, for the voyage is up."
wof woof wf wof, wof wof woooof wf wf."




From the ship's bows, nearly all the seamen now hung inactive; hammers,
Woof wof woof'w woof, woooof wof wof woooof wof woof woooooof; wooooof,

bits of plank, lances, and harpoons, mechanically retained in their
woof wf wooof, woooof, wof woooooof, woooooooooof woooooof wf wooof

hands, just as they had darted from their various employments; all their
wooof, woof wf woof wof woooof woof wooof wooooof wooooooooof; wof wooof

enchanted eyes intent upon the whale, which from side to side strangely
wooooooof woof woooof woof wof wooof, wooof woof woof wf woof wooooooof

vibrating his predestinating head, sent a broad band of overspreading
wooooooof wof woooooooooooof woof, woof w wooof woof wf wooooooooooof

semicircular foam before him as he rushed. Retribution, swift vengeance,
woooooooooof woof woooof wof wf wf woooof. Wooooooooof, wooof wooooooof,

eternal malice were in his whole aspect, and spite of all that mortal
wooooof woooof woof wf wof wooof woooof, wof wooof wf wof woof woooof

man could do, the solid white buttress of his forehead smote the ship's
wof wooof wf, wof wooof wooof woooooof wf wof woooooof wooof wof woof'w

starboard bow, till men and timbers reeled. Some fell flat upon their
wooooooof wof, woof wof wof wooooof woooof. Woof woof woof woof wooof

faces. Like dislodged trucks, the heads of the harpooneers aloft shook
wooof. Woof wooooooof woooof, wof wooof wf wof wooooooooof wooof wooof

on their bull-like necks. Through the breach, they heard the waters
wf wooof woof-woof wooof. Wooooof wof woooof, woof wooof wof woooof

pour, as mountain torrents down a flume.
woof, wf woooooof woooooof woof w wooof.




"The ship! The hearse!--the second hearse!" cried Ahab from the boat;
"Wof woof! Wof woooof!--wof woooof woooof!" wooof Woof woof wof woof;

"its wood could only be American!"
"wof woof wooof woof wf Woooooof!"




Diving beneath the settling ship, the whale ran quivering along its
Woooof wooooof wof woooooof woof, wof wooof wof wooooooof wooof wof

keel; but turning under water, swiftly shot to the surface again, far
woof; wof wooooof wooof wooof, wooooof woof wf wof wooooof wooof, wof

off the other bow, but within a few yards of Ahab's boat, where, for a
wof wof wooof wof, wof woooof w wof wooof wf Woof'w woof, wooof, wof w

time, he lay quiescent.
woof, wf wof wooooooof.




"I turn my body from the sun. What ho, Tashtego! let me hear thy hammer.
"W woof wf woof woof wof wof. Woof wf, Woooooof! wof wf woof wof woooof.

Oh! ye three unsurrendered spires of mine; thou uncracked keel; and only
Wf! wf wooof wooooooooooof woooof wf woof; woof wooooooof woof; wof woof

god-bullied hull; thou firm deck, and haughty helm, and Pole-pointed
wof-wooooof woof; woof woof woof, wof wooooof woof, wof Woof-wooooof

prow,--death-glorious ship! must ye then perish, and without me? Am I
woof,--wooof-woooooof woof! woof wf woof woooof, wof wooooof wf? Wf W

cut off from the last fond pride of meanest shipwrecked captains? Oh,
wof wof woof wof woof woof wooof wf wooooof wooooooooof woooooof? Wf,

lonely death on lonely life! Oh, now I feel my topmost greatness lies in
woooof wooof wf woooof woof! Wf, wof W woof wf wooooof wooooooof woof wf

my topmost grief. Ho, ho! from all your furthest bounds, pour ye now in,
wf wooooof wooof. Wf, wf! woof wof woof woooooof woooof, woof wf wof wf,

ye bold billows of my whole foregone life, and top this one piled comber
wf woof wooooof wf wf wooof woooooof woof, wof wof woof wof wooof woooof

of my death! Towards thee I roll, thou all-destroying but unconquering
wf wf wooof! Wooooof woof W woof, woof wof-woooooooof wof woooooooooof

whale; to the last I grapple with thee; from hell's heart I stab at
wooof; wf wof woof W wooooof woof woof; woof woof'w wooof W woof wf

thee; for hate's sake I spit my last breath at thee. Sink all coffins
woof; wof woof'w woof W woof wf woof woooof wf woof. Woof wof wooooof

and all hearses to one common pool! and since neither can be mine, let
wof wof wooooof wf wof woooof woof! wof wooof wooooof wof wf woof, wof

me then tow to pieces, while still chasing thee, though tied to thee,
wf woof wof wf woooof, wooof wooof wooooof woof, woooof woof wf woof,

thou damned whale! THUS, I give up the spear!"
woof woooof wooof! WOOF, W woof wf wof wooof!"




The harpoon was darted; the stricken whale flew forward; with igniting
Wof wooooof wof woooof; wof woooooof wooof woof wooooof; woof woooooof

velocity the line ran through the grooves;--ran foul. Ahab stooped to
woooooof wof woof wof wooooof wof wooooof;--wof woof. Woof wooooof wf

clear it; he did clear it; but the flying turn caught him round the
wooof wf; wf wof wooof wf; wof wof woooof woof woooof wof wooof wof

neck, and voicelessly as Turkish mutes bowstring their victim, he was
woof, wof wooooooooof wf Wooooof wooof wooooooof wooof woooof, wf wof

shot out of the boat, ere the crew knew he was gone. Next instant, the
woof wof wf wof woof, wof wof woof woof wf wof woof. Woof wooooof, wof

heavy eye-splice in the rope's final end flew out of the stark-empty
wooof wof-woooof wf wof woof'w wooof wof woof wof wf wof wooof-wooof

tub, knocked down an oarsman, and smiting the sea, disappeared in its
wof, wooooof woof wf wooooof, wof wooooof wof wof, wooooooooof wf wof

depths.
woooof.




For an instant, the tranced boat's crew stood still; then turned. "The
Wof wf wooooof, wof wooooof woof'w woof wooof wooof; woof woooof. "Wof

ship? Great God, where is the ship?" Soon they through dim, bewildering
woof? Wooof Wof, wooof wf wof woof?" Woof woof wooooof wof, wooooooooof

mediums saw her sidelong fading phantom, as in the gaseous Fata Morgana;
wooooof wof wof woooooof woooof wooooof, wf wf wof wooooof Woof Wooooof;

only the uppermost masts out of water; while fixed by infatuation, or
woof wof wooooooof wooof wof wf wooof; wooof wooof wf wooooooooof, wf

fidelity, or fate, to their once lofty perches, the pagan harpooneers
woooooof, wf woof, wf wooof woof wooof wooooof, wof wooof wooooooooof

still maintained their sinking lookouts on the sea. And now, concentric
wooof woooooooof wooof wooooof woooooof wf wof wof. Wof wof, woooooooof

circles seized the lone boat itself, and all its crew, and each floating
wooooof woooof wof woof woof woooof, wof wof wof woof, wof woof woooooof

oar, and every lance-pole, and spinning, animate and inanimate, all
wof, wof wooof wooof-woof, wof woooooof, wooooof wof wooooooof, wof

round and round in one vortex, carried the smallest chip of the Pequod
wooof wof wooof wf wof woooof, wooooof wof woooooof woof wf wof Woooof

out of sight.
wof wf wooof.




But as the last whelmings intermixingly poured themselves over the
Wof wf wof woof wooooooof wooooooooooof woooof woooooooof woof wof

sunken head of the Indian at the mainmast, leaving a few inches of the
woooof woof wf wof Woooof wf wof woooooof, wooooof w wof woooof wf wof

erect spar yet visible, together with long streaming yards of the flag,
wooof woof wof wooooof, woooooof woof woof wooooooof wooof wf wof woof,

which calmly undulated, with ironical coincidings, over the destroying
wooof woooof wooooooof, woof woooooof wooooooooof, woof wof woooooooof

billows they almost touched;--at that instant, a red arm and a hammer
wooooof woof woooof wooooof;--wf woof wooooof, w wof wof wof w woooof

hovered backwardly uplifted in the open air, in the act of nailing
wooooof woooooooof woooooof wf wof woof wof, wf wof wof wf wooooof

the flag faster and yet faster to the subsiding spar. A sky-hawk that
wof woof woooof wof wof woooof wf wof wooooooof woof. W wof-woof woof

tauntingly had followed the main-truck downwards from its natural home
woooooooof wof woooooof wof woof-wooof wooooooof woof wof wooooof woof

among the stars, pecking at the flag, and incommoding Tashtego there;
wooof wof wooof, wooooof wf wof woof, wof wooooooooof Woooooof wooof;

this bird now chanced to intercept its broad fluttering wing between the
woof woof wof wooooof wf wooooooof wof wooof woooooooof woof wooooof wof

hammer and the wood; and simultaneously feeling that etherial thrill,
woooof wof wof woof; wof woooooooooooof wooooof woof woooooof woooof,

the submerged savage beneath, in his death-gasp, kept his hammer frozen
wof wooooooof woooof wooooof, wf wof wooof-woof, woof wof woooof woooof

there; and so the bird of heaven, with archangelic shrieks, and his
wooof; wof wf wof woof wf woooof, woof wooooooooof wooooof, wof wof

imperial beak thrust upwards, and his whole captive form folded in the
woooooof woof woooof wooooof, wof wof wooof wooooof woof woooof wf wof

flag of Ahab, went down with his ship, which, like Satan, would not sink
woof wf Woof, woof woof woof wof woof, wooof, woof Wooof, wooof wof woof

to hell till she had dragged a living part of heaven along with her, and
wf woof woof wof wof wooooof w woooof woof wf woooof wooof woof wof, wof

helmeted herself with it.
woooooof wooooof woof wf.




Now small fowls flew screaming over the yet yawning gulf; a sullen white
Wof wooof wooof woof wooooooof woof wof wof wooooof woof; w woooof wooof

surf beat against its steep sides; then all collapsed, and the great
woof woof wooooof wof wooof wooof; woof wof wooooooof, wof wof wooof

shroud of the sea rolled on as it rolled five thousand years ago.
woooof wf wof wof woooof wf wf wf woooof woof woooooof wooof wof.













Epilogue
Woooooof




"AND I ONLY AM ESCAPED ALONE TO TELL THEE" Job.
"WOF W WOOF WF WOOOOOF WOOOF WF WOOF WOOF" Wof.




The drama's done. Why then here does any one step forth?--Because one
Wof wooof'w woof. Wof woof woof woof wof wof woof wooof?--Wooooof wof

did survive the wreck.
wof wooooof wof wooof.




It so chanced, that after the Parsee's disappearance, I was he whom the
Wf wf wooooof, woof wooof wof Woooof'w wooooooooooof, W wof wf woof wof

Fates ordained to take the place of Ahab's bowsman, when that bowsman
Wooof woooooof wf woof wof wooof wf Woof'w wooooof, woof woof wooooof

assumed the vacant post; the same, who, when on the last day the three
wooooof wof woooof woof; wof woof, wof, woof wf wof woof wof wof wooof

men were tossed from out of the rocking boat, was dropped astern. So,
wof woof woooof woof wof wf wof wooooof woof, wof wooooof woooof. Wf,

floating on the margin of the ensuing scene, and in full sight of it,
woooooof wf wof woooof wf wof wooooof wooof, wof wf woof wooof wf wf,

when the halfspent suction of the sunk ship reached me, I was then,
woof wof wooooooof wooooof wf wof woof woof wooooof wf, W wof woof,

but slowly, drawn towards the closing vortex. When I reached it, it had
wof woooof, wooof wooooof wof wooooof woooof. Woof W wooooof wf, wf wof

subsided to a creamy pool. Round and round, then, and ever contracting
woooooof wf w woooof woof. Wooof wof wooof, woof, wof woof wooooooooof

towards the button-like black bubble at the axis of that slowly wheeling
wooooof wof woooof-woof wooof woooof wf wof woof wf woof woooof woooooof

circle, like another Ixion I did revolve. Till, gaining that vital
woooof, woof wooooof Wooof W wof wooooof. Woof, wooooof woof wooof

centre, the black bubble upward burst; and now, liberated by reason of
woooof, wof wooof woooof woooof wooof; wof wof, wooooooof wf woooof wf

its cunning spring, and, owing to its great buoyancy, rising with great
wof wooooof woooof, wof, wooof wf wof wooof woooooof, woooof woof wooof

force, the coffin life-buoy shot lengthwise from the sea, fell over, and
wooof, wof woooof woof-woof woof woooooooof woof wof wof, woof woof, wof

floated by my side. Buoyed up by that coffin, for almost one whole day
wooooof wf wf woof. Woooof wf wf woof woooof, wof woooof wof wooof wof

and night, I floated on a soft and dirgelike main. The unharming sharks,
wof wooof, W wooooof wf w woof wof wooooooof woof. Wof wooooooof woooof,

they glided by as if with padlocks on their mouths; the savage sea-hawks
woof woooof wf wf wf woof woooooof wf wooof woooof; wof woooof wof-wooof

sailed with sheathed beaks. On the second day, a sail drew near, nearer,
woooof woof woooooof wooof. Wf wof woooof wof, w woof woof woof, woooof,

and picked me up at last. It was the devious-cruising Rachel, that in
wof woooof wf wf wf woof. Wf wof wof wooooof-woooooof Woooof, woof wf

her retracing search after her missing children, only found another
wof wooooooof woooof wooof wof wooooof woooooof, woof wooof wooooof

orphan.
woooof.
















End of Project Gutenberg's Moby Dick; or The Whale, by Herman Melville
Wof wf Wooooof Wooooooof'w Woof Woof; wf Wof Wooof, wf Woooof Woooooof




*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MOBY DICK; OR THE WHALE ***
*** WOF WF WOOF WOOOOOF WOOOOOOOF WOOOF WOOF WOOF; WF WOF WOOOF ***




***** This file should be named 2701.txt or 2701.zip *****
***** Woof woof woooof wf wooof woof.wof wf woof.wof *****

This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
Woof wof wof woooooooof wooof wf wooooof wooooof woof wf wooof wf:

        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/7/0/2701/
        woof://wof.wooooooof.wof/w/w/w/woof/




Produced by Daniel Lazarus and Jonesey
Woooooof wf Woooof Wooooof wof Wooooof




Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
Wooooof woooooof woof wooooof wof woooooof wof--wof wof woooooof

will be renamed.
woof wf wooooof.




Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
Woooooof wof wooof woof woooof woooof wooof woooooof wooof woof wf

one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
wof woof w Woooof Woooof wooooooof wf wooof wooof, wf wof Woooooooof

(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
(wof wof!) wof woof wof woooooooof wf wf wof Woooof Woooof wooooof

permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
woooooooof wof wooooof woooof wooooooof wooooooof.  Wooooof wooof,

set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
wof wooof wf wof Wooooof Wooof wf Wof woof wf woof wooooof, wooof wf

copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
wooooof wof woooooooooof Wooooof Wooooooof-wf woooooooof wooof wf

protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
wooooof wof WOOOOOF WOOOOOOOF-wf wooooof wof wooooooof.  Wooooof

Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
Wooooooof wf w woooooooof wooooooof, wof wof wof wf woof wf wof

charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
woooof wof wof wOooof, woooof wof wooooof woooooof woooooooof.  Wf wof

do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
wf wof woooof woooooof wof woooof wf woof wOoof, wooooooof woof wof

rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
wooof wf woof woof.  Wof wof wof woof wOoof wof woooof wof wooooof

such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
woof wf woooooof wf woooooooof wooof, wooooof, woooooooooof wof

research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
woooooof.  Woof wof wf woooooof wof wooooof wof wooof woof--wof wof wf

practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
wooooooooof WOOOOOOF woof woooof woooof wOooof.  Woooooooooooof wf

subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
wooooof wf wof wooooooof wooooof, woooooooof woooooooof

redistribution.
woooooooooooof.










*** START: FULL LICENSE ***
*** WOOOF: WOOF WOOOOOF ***




THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
WOF WOOF WOOOOOF WOOOOOOOF WOOOOOF

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK
WOOOOF WOOF WOOF WOOOOF WOF WOOOOOOOOF WF WOF WOOF WOOF




To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
Wf wooooof wof Wooooof Wooooooof-wf wooooof wf wooooooof wof woof

distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
woooooooooof wf woooooooof wooof, wf wooof wf woooooooooof woof woof

(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
(wf wof wooof woof woooooooof wf wof wof woof wof woooof "Wooooof

Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Wooooooof"), wof wooof wf woooof woof wof wof wooof wf wof Woof Wooooof

Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
Wooooooof-wf Wooooof (wooooooof woof woof woof wf woooof wf

http://gutenberg.org/license).
woof://wooooooof.wof/wooooof).







Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
Wooooof w.  Wooooof Wooof wf Wof wof Woooooooooooof Wooooof Wooooooof-wf

electronic works
woooooooof wooof




1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
w.W.  Wf wooooof wf wooof wof woof wf woof Wooooof Wooooooof-wf

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
woooooooof woof, wof woooooof woof wof woof woof, woooooooof, wooof wf

and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
wof woooof wof wof wooof wf woof wooooof wof woooooooooof woooooof

(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
(wooooooof/wooooooof) wooooooof.  Wf wof wf wof wooof wf wooof wf wof

the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
wof wooof wf woof wooooooof, wof woof wooof wooof wof woooof wf wooooof

all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
wof woooof wf Wooooof Wooooooof-wf woooooooof wooof wf woof woooooooof.

If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Wf wof woof w wof wof wooooooof w woof wf wf woooof wf w Wooooof

Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
Wooooooof-wf woooooooof woof wof wof wf wof wooof wf wf wooof wf wof

terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
wooof wf woof wooooooof, wof wof woooof w woooof woof wof woooof wf

entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.
woooof wf woof wof woof wof wof wf wof wooof wf wooooooof w.W.w.




1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
w.W.  "Wooooof Wooooooof" wf w woooooooof wooooooof.  Wf wof woof wf

used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
woof wf wf woooooooof wf wof wof woof wf woooooooof woof wf woooof wof

agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
wooof wf wf wooof wf wof wooof wf woof wooooooof.  Wooof wof w wof

things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
woooof woof wof wof wf woof woof Wooooof Wooooooof-wf woooooooof wooof

even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
woof wooooof wooooooof woof wof woof wooof wf woof wooooooof.  Wof

paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
wooooooof w.W wooof.  Wooof wof w wof wf woooof wof wof wf woof Wooooof

Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
Wooooooof-wf woooooooof wooof wf wof woooof wof wooof wf woof wooooooof

and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
wof woof woooooof woof woooof woooof wf Wooooof Wooooooof-wf woooooooof

works.  See paragraph 1.E below.
wooof.  Wof wooooooof w.W wooof.




1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
w.W.  Wof Wooooof Wooooooof Woooooof Wooooof Woooooooof ("wof Woooooooof"

or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
wf WOOOF), woof w wooooooooof wooooooof wf wof woooooooof wf Wooooof

Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
Wooooooof-wf woooooooof wooof.  Woooof wof wof woooooooof wooof wf wof

collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
woooooooof wof wf wof woooof woooof wf wof Woooof Woooof.  Wf wf

individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
woooooooof woof wf wf wof woooof woooof wf wof Woooof Woooof wof wof wof

located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
wooooof wf wof Woooof Woooof, wf wf wof wooof w wooof wf wooooof wof woof

copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
wooooof, woooooooooof, woooooooof, woooooooof wf woooooof woooooooof

works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
wooof wooof wf wof woof wf woof wf wof woooooooof wf Wooooof Wooooooof

are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
wof wooooof.  Wf woooof, wf woof woof wof woof wooooof wof Wooooof

Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
Wooooooof-wf wooooof wf wooooooof woof woooof wf woooooooof wooof wf

freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
woooof wooooof Wooooof Wooooooof-wf wooof wf woooooooof woof wof wooof wf

this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
woof wooooooof wof wooooof wof Wooooof Wooooooof-wf woof woooooooof woof

the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
wof woof.  Wof wof woooof woooof woof wof wooof wf woof wooooooof wf

keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
wooooof woof woof wf wof woof woooof woof wof woooooof woof Wooooof

Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.
Wooooooof-wf Wooooof woof wof wooof wf wooooof woooof woof woooof.




1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
w.W.  Wof wooooooof woof wf wof wooof wooof wof wof wooooof woof woooof

what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
woof wof wof wf woof woof woof.  Wooooooof woof wf woof wooooooof wof wf

a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
w woooooof wooof wf woooof.  Wf wof wof wooooof wof Woooof Woooof, wooof

the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
wof woof wf woof wooooof wf woooooof wf wof wooof wf woof wooooooof

before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
woooof wooooooooof, wooooof, woooooooof, woooooooof, woooooooooof wf

creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
woooooof woooooooof wooof wooof wf woof woof wf wof wooof Wooooof

Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
Wooooooof-wf woof.  Wof Woooooooof wooof wf wooooooooooooof woooooooof

the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
wof wooooooof woooof wf wof woof wf wof wooooof wooooof wof Woooof

States.
Woooof.




1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:
w.W.  Woooof wof woof wooooof wof woooooooof wf Wooooof Wooooooof:




1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
w.W.w.  Wof wooooooof woooooof, woof woooof wooof wf, wf wooof wooooooof

access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
woooof wf, wof woof Wooooof Wooooooof-wf Wooooof woof woooof wooooooooof

whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
woooooof wof woof wf w Wooooof Wooooooof-wf woof (wof woof wf wooof wof

phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
woooof "Wooooof Wooooooof" wooooof, wf woof wooof wof woooof "Wooooof

Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
Wooooooof" wf woooooooof) wf woooooof, wooooooof, wooooooof, woooof,

copied or distributed:
woooof wf wooooooooof:




This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
Woof wOoof wf wof wof wof wf woooof woooooof wf wf woof wof woof

almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
woooof wf woooooooooof woooooooof.  Wof wof woof wf, woof wf woof wf

re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
wf-wof wf wooof wof wooof wf wof Wooooof Wooooooof Wooooof woooooof

with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org
woof woof wOoof wf woooof wf wof.wooooooof.wof




1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
w.W.w.  Wf wf woooooooof Wooooof Wooooooof-wf woooooooof woof wf wooooof

from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
woof wof woooof woooof (woof wof wooooof w woooof woooooooof woof wf wf

posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
woooof woof woooooooof wf wof wooooooof woooof), wof woof wof wf woooof

and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
wof wooooooooof wf woooof wf wof Woooof Woooof wooooof woooof wof woof

or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
wf wooooof.  Wf wof wof woooooooooooof wf wooooooof woooof wf w woof

with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
woof wof woooof "Wooooof Wooooooof" woooooooof woof wf wooooooof wf wof

work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
woof, wof woof woooof woooof woof wof woooooooooof wf woooooooof w.W.w

through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
wooooof w.W.w wf woooof woooooooof wof wof wof wf wof woof wof wof

Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
Wooooof Wooooooof-wf wooooooof wf wof wooof wf woooooooof w.W.w wf

1.E.9.
w.W.w.




1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
w.W.w.  Wf wf woooooooof Wooooof Wooooooof-wf woooooooof woof wf woooof

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
woof wof woooooooof wf wof wooooooof woooof, woof wof wof woooooooooof

must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
woof woooof woof woof woooooooof w.W.w wooooof w.W.w wof wof woooooooof

terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
wooof wooooof wf wof wooooooof woooof.  Woooooooof wooof woof wf woooof

to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
wf wof Wooooof Wooooooof-wf Wooooof wof wof wooof woooof woof wof

permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.
woooooooof wf wof wooooooof woooof wooof wf wof wooooooof wf woof woof.




1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
w.W.w.  Wf wof woooof wf woooof wf woooof wof woof Wooooof Wooooooof-wf

License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
Wooooof wooof woof woof woof, wf wof wooof woooooooof w woof wf woof

work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.
woof wf wof wooof woof woooooooof woof Wooooof Wooooooof-wf.




1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
w.W.w.  Wf wof woof, wooooof, wooooof, woooooooof wf woooooooooof woof

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
woooooooof woof, wf wof woof wf woof woooooooof woof, wooooof

prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
wooooooooof woooooooof wof woooooof wof wooof wf wooooooof w.W.w woof

active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
woooof wooof wf wooooooof woooof wf wof woof wooof wf wof Wooooof

Gutenberg-tm License.
Wooooooof-wf Wooooof.




1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
w.W.w.  Wof wof wooooof wf wof woooooooof woof woof wf wof woooof,

compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
woooooooof, woooof wf, woooooooooooof wf wooooooooof woof, wooooooof wof

word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
woof woooooooof wf wooooooof woof.  Wooooof, wf wof wooooof woooof wf wf

distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
woooooooof woooof wf w Wooooof Wooooooof-wf woof wf w woooof wooof woof

"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
"Wooof Wooooof WOOOF" wf wooof woooof woof wf wof woooooof wooooof

posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
woooof wf wof woooooof Wooooof Wooooooof-wf wof woof (wof.wooooooof.wof),

you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
wof woof, wf wf woooooooof woof, wof wf wooooof wf wof woof, wooooof w

copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
woof, w wooof wf wooooooof w woof, wf w wooof wf wooooooof w woof woof

request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
wooooof, wf wof woof wf wof woooooof "Wooof Wooooof WOOOF" wf wooof

form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
woof.  Wof wooooooof woooof woof wooooof wof woof Wooooof Wooooooof-wf

License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.
Wooooof wf wooooooof wf wooooooof w.W.w.




1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
w.W.w.  Wf wof woooof w wof wof woooof wf, wooooof, woooooooof,

performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
woooooooof, wooooof wf woooooooooof wof Wooooof Wooooooof-wf wooof

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.
woooof wof woooof woof wooooooof w.W.w wf w.W.w.




1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
w.W.w.  Wof wof woooof w woooooooof wof wof woooof wf wf wooooooof

access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
woooof wf wf woooooooooof Wooooof Wooooooof-wf woooooooof wooof woooooof

that
woof




- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
- Wof wof w wooooof wof wf wf% wf wof wooof wooooof wof woooof woof

     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     wof wof wf Wooooof Wooooooof-wf wooof woooooooof wooof wof woooof

     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     wof wooooof wof wf wooooooof woof woooooooof wooof.  Wof wof wf

     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     woof wf wof wooof wf wof Wooooof Wooooooof-wf wooooooof, wof wf

     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     wof woooof wf woooof wooooooof wooof woof wooooooof wf wof

     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     Wooooof Wooooooof Woooooof Wooooof Woooooooof.  Wooooof woooooof

     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     woof wf woof woooof wf woof wooooooof woof woof wf wooof wof

     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     wooooof (wf wof wooooof woooooof wf wooooof) woof woooooof wof

     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     wooooof.  Wooooof woooooof woooof wf wooooof woooof wf woof wof

     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     woof wf wof Wooooof Wooooooof Woooooof Wooooof Woooooooof wf wof

     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     wooooof wooooooof wf Wooooof w, "Wooooooooof wooof wooooooof wf

     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."
     wof Wooooof Wooooooof Woooooof Wooooof Woooooooof."




- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
- Wof wooooof w woof woooof wf wof wooof woof wf w woof wof woooooof

     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     wof wf wooooof (wf wf w-woof) woooof wf woof wf wooooof woof w/wf

     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     woof wof wooof wf wof wooof wf wof woof Wooooof Wooooooof-wf

     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     Wooooof.  Wof woof wooooof woof w woof wf woooof wf

     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     wooooof wof woooof wf wof wooof wooooooof wf w woooooof woooof

     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     wof wooooooooof wof wof wf wof wof woooof wf wooof woooof wf

     Project Gutenberg-tm works.
     Wooooof Wooooooof-wf wooof.




- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
- Wof wooooof, wf woooooooof woof wooooooof w.W.w, w woof woooof wf wof

     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     wooof woof wof w woof wf w wooooooooof woof, wf w woooof wf wof

     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     woooooooof woof wf woooooooof wof woooooof wf wof woooof wf woof

     of receipt of the work.
     wf wooooof wf wof woof.




- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
- Wof woooof woof wof wooof wooof wf woof wooooooof wof woof

     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.
     woooooooooof wf Wooooof Wooooooof-wf wooof.




1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
w.W.w.  Wf wof woof wf woooof w wof wf woooooooof w Wooooof Wooooooof-wf

electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
woooooooof woof wf wooof wf wooof wf wooooooof wooof woof wof wof

forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
wooof wf woof wooooooof, wof woof woooof woooooooof wf wooooof woof

both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
woof wof Wooooof Wooooooof Woooooof Wooooof Woooooooof wof Wooooof

Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Woof, wof wooof wf wof Wooooof Wooooooof-wf wooooooof.  Wooooof wof

Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.
Woooooooof wf wof wooof wf Wooooof w wooof.




1.F.
w.W.




1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
w.W.w.  Wooooof Wooooooof woooooooof wof wooooooof woooof woooooooooof

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
woooof wf woooooof, wf wooooooof woooooof wf, woooooooof wof wooooooof

public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
woooof woooof wooof wf woooooof wof Wooooof Wooooooof-wf

collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
woooooooof.  Wooooof wooof wooooof, Wooooof Wooooooof-wf woooooooof

works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
wooof, wof wof woooof wf wooof woof wof wf woooof, wof wooooof

"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
"Wooooof," woof wf, wof wof wooooof wf, woooooooof, woooooooof wf

corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
wooooof woof, wooooooooooof woooof, w wooooooof wf wooof woooooooooof

property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
woooooof woooooooooof, w wooooooof wf wooooof woof wf wooof woooof, w

computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
woooooof wooof, wf woooooof wooof woof woooof wf woooof wf woof wf

your equipment.
woof wooooooof.




1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
w.W.w.  WOOOOOF WOOOOOOF, WOOOOOOOOF WF WOOOOOF - Woooof wof wof "Wooof

of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
wf Wooooooooof wf Woooof" wooooooof wf wooooooof w.W.w, wof Wooooof

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Wooooooof Woooooof Wooooof Woooooooof, wof wooof wf wof Wooooof

Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Wooooooof-wf wooooooof, wof wof wooof wooof woooooooooof w Wooooof

Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
Wooooooof-wf woooooooof woof wooof woof wooooooof, woooooof wof

liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
wooooooof wf wof wof wooooof, wooof wof woooooof, wooooooof wooof

fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
woof.  WOF WOOOF WOOF WOF WOOF WF WOOOOOOF WOF WOOOOOOOOF, WOOOOF

LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
WOOOOOOOF, WOOOOF WF WOOOOOOF WF WOOOOF WF WOOOOOOF WOOOOF WOOOF

PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
WOOOOOOF WF WOOOOOOOF WF.  WOF WOOOF WOOF WOF WOOOOOOOOF, WOF

TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
WOOOOOOOF WOOOF, WOF WOF WOOOOOOOOOF WOOOF WOOF WOOOOOOOF WOOF WOF WF

LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
WOOOOF WF WOF WOF WOOOOF, WOOOOF, WOOOOOOF, WOOOOOOOOOOOF, WOOOOOOF WF

INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
WOOOOOOOOF WOOOOOF WOOF WF WOF WOOF WOOOOF WF WOF WOOOOOOOOOF WF WOOF

DAMAGE.
WOOOOF.




1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
w.W.w.  WOOOOOF WOOOF WF WOOOOOOOOOF WF WOOOOF - Wf wof woooooof w

defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
woooof wf woof woooooooof woof woooof wf woof wf wooooooof wf, wof wof

receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
wooooof w woooof wf wof wooof (wf wof) wof woof wof wf wf wooooof w

written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
wooooof wooooooooof wf wof woooof wof woooooof wof woof woof.  Wf wof

received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
woooooof wof woof wf w woooooof woooof, wof woof woooof wof woooof woof

your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
woof wooooof wooooooooof.  Wof woooof wf woooof woof woooooof wof woof

the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
wof wooooooof woof wof wooof wf wooooof w wooooooooof woof wf woof wf w

refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
woooof.  Wf wof woooooof wof woof woooooooooooof, wof woooof wf woooof

providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
wooooooof wf wf wof wof woooof wf woof wof w woooof wooooooooof wf

receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
wooooof wof woof woooooooooooof wf woof wf w woooof.  Wf wof woooof woof

is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
wf woof wooooooof, wof wof woooof w woooof wf wooooof wooooof wooooof

opportunities to fix the problem.
wooooooooooof wf wof wof wooooof.




1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
w.W.w.  Woooof wof wof wooooof wooof wf wooooooooof wf woooof wof wooof

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
wf wooooooof w.W.w, woof woof wf woooooof wf wof 'WF-WF' WOOF WF WOOOF

WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WOOOOOOOOF WF WOF WOOF, WOOOOOF WF WOOOOOF, WOOOOOOOF WOF WOF WOOOOOF WF

WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.
WOOOOOOOOF WF WOOOOOOOOOOOOOF WF WOOOOOF WOF WOF WOOOOOF.




1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
w.W.w.  Woof woooof wf wof wooof wooooooooof wf wooooof wooooof

warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
woooooooof wf wof wooooooof wf woooooooof wf wooooof wooof wf wooooof.

If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
Wf wof woooooooof wf woooooooof wof wooof wf woof wooooooof woooooof wof

law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
wof wf wof wooof woooooooof wf woof wooooooof, wof wooooooof wooof wf

interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
wooooooooof wf woof wof wooooof woooooooof wf woooooooof wooooooof wf

the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
wof woooooooof wooof wof.  Wof woooooooof wf woooooooooooooof wf wof

provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.
wooooooof wf woof wooooooof wooof wof woof wof wooooooof woooooooof.




1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
w.W.w.  WOOOOOOOF - Wof wooof wf wooooooof wof woof wof Woooooooof, wof

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
wooooooof wooof, wof wooof wf woooooof wf wof Woooooooof, woooof

providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
wooooooof woooof wf Wooooof Wooooooof-wf woooooooof wooof wf woooooooof

with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
woof woof wooooooof, wof wof woooooooof woooooooof woof wof woooooooof,

promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
wooooooof wof woooooooooof wf Wooooof Wooooooof-wf woooooooof wooof,

harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
woooooof woof wof wooooooof, wooof wof woooooof, wooooooof wooof woof,

that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
woof wooof woooooof wf woooooooof woof wof wf wof wooooooof wooof wof wf

or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
wf wooof wf wooof: (w) woooooooooof wf woof wf wof Wooooof Wooooooof-wf

work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
woof, (w) woooooooof, woooooooooof, wf wooooooof wf wooooooof wf wof

Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.
Wooooof Wooooooof-wf woof, wof (w) wof Woooof wof wooof.







Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm
Wooooof  w.  Wooooooooof wooof wof Wooooof wf Wooooof Wooooooof-wf




Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
Wooooof Wooooooof-wf wf woooooooof woof wof woof woooooooooof wf

electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
woooooooof wooof wf wooooof woooooof wf wof woooof wooooof wf wooooooof

including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
wooooooof woooooof, wof, woooof-woof wof wof wooooooof.  Wf woooof

because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
wooooof wf wof wooooof wf woooooof wf woooooooof wof wooooooof woof

people in all walks of life.
woooof wf wof wooof wf woof.




Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
Woooooooof wof wooooooof wooooof wf wooooof woooooooof woof wof

assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
woooooooof woof woof, wof woooooof wf woooooof Wooooof Wooooooof-wf'w

goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
wooof wof woooooof woof wof Wooooof Wooooooof-wf woooooooof woof

remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
woooof woooof wooooooof wof wooooooooof wf woof.  Wf woof, wof Wooooof

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
Wooooooof Woooooof Wooooof Woooooooof wof wooooof wf wooooof w woooof

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
wof wooooooof woooof wof Wooooof Wooooooof-wf wof woooof wooooooooof.

To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
Wf wooof woof wooof wof Wooooof Wooooooof Woooooof Wooooof Woooooooof

and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
wof wof woof wooooof wof wooooooof wof woof, wof Woooooof w wof w

and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.
wof wof Woooooooof wof woof wf woof://wof.wooof.wof.







Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Wooooof w.  Wooooooooof wooof wof Wooooof Wooooooof Woooooof Wooooof

Foundation
Woooooooof




The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
Wof Wooooof Wooooooof Woooooof Wooooof Woooooooof wf w wof woooof

501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
wof(w)(w) wooooooooof wooooooooof wooooooof wooof wof woof wf wof

state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
wooof wf Wooooooooof wof wooooof wof woooof woooof wf wof Woooooof

Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
Wooooof Wooooof.  Wof Woooooooof'w WOF wf wooooof wof woooooooooooof

number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
woooof wf wf-wooooof.  Wof wof(w)(w) woooof wf woooof wf

http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
woof://wooof.wof/wooooooooof.  Wooooooooooof wf wof Wooooof Wooooooof

Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
Woooooof Wooooof Woooooooof wof wof woooooooof wf wof woof woooof

permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.
wooooooof wf W.W. wooooof woof wof woof wooof'w woof.




The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Wof Woooooooof'w wooooooof woooof wf wooooof wf woof Wooof Wf. W.

Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
Wooooooof, WF, wooof., wof wof woooooooof wof wooooooof wof wooooooof

throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
woooooooof woooooof wooooooof.  Wof woooooof woooof wf wooooof wf

809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
wof Wooof woof Woof, Woof Woof Woof, WF wooof, (wof) wof-woof, wooof

business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
woooooof@wooof.wof.  Wooof wooooof wooof wof wf wf woof wooooof

information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
wooooooooof wof wf wooof wf wof Woooooooof'w wof woof wof woooooof

page at http://pglaf.org
woof wf woof://wooof.wof




For additional contact information:
Wof woooooooof wooooof wooooooooof:

     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Wf. Wooooof W. Wooof

     Chief Executive and Director
     Wooof Wooooooof wof Woooooof

     gbnewby@pglaf.org
     wooooof@wooof.wof







Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Wooooof w.  Wooooooooof wooof Wooooooof wf wof Wooooof Wooooooof

Literary Archive Foundation
Woooooof Wooooof Woooooooof




Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
Wooooof Wooooooof-wf wooooof woof wof woooof wooooof wooooof woof

spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
woooof woooof wooooof wof wooooooof wf wooof wof wof wooooof wf

increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
woooooooof wof woooof wf woooof woooof wof woooooof wooof woof wof wf

freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
woooof wooooooooof wf wooooof woooooof woof woooooooof wf wof woooof

array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
wooof wf wooooooof wooooooof woooooof wooooooof.  Woof wooof wooooooof

($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
($w wf $w,wof) wof woooooooooof wooooooof wf wooooooooof wof woooof

status with the IRS.
woooof woof wof WOF.




The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
Wof Woooooooof wf wooooooof wf wooooooof woof wof woof woooooooof

charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
wooooooof wof woooooooof wooooooof wf wof wf woooof wf wof Woooof

States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
Woooof.  Woooooooof woooooooooof wof wof wooooof wof wf wooof w

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
woooooooooof woooof, woof wooooooof wof woof woof wf woof wof woof wf

with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
woof wooof woooooooooof.  Wf wf wof wooooof wooooooof wf wooooooof

where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
wooof wf woof wof woooooof wooooof woooooooooof wf woooooooof.  Wf

SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
WOOF WOOOOOOOF wf wooooooof wof woooof wf woooooooof wof wof

particular state visit http://pglaf.org
woooooooof wooof wooof woof://wooof.wof




While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
Wooof wf woooof wof wf wof wooooof wooooooooooof woof woooof wooof wf

have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
woof wof wof wof woooooooooof woooooooooof, wf woof wf wf wooooooooof

against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
wooooof wooooooof wooooooooof wooooooof woof woooof wf woof woooof wof

approach us with offers to donate.
woooooof wf woof woooof wf woooof.




International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
Wooooooooooof wooooooof wof woooooooof woooooof, wof wf woooof woof

any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
wof woooooooof woooooooof wof wooooooof wf wooooooof woooooof woof

outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.
wooooof wof Woooof Woooof.  W.W. woof wooof wooof wof wooof wooof.




Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
Woooof wooof wof Wooooof Wooooooof Wof wooof wof wooooof woooooof

methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
wooooof wof wooooooof.  Wooooooof wof woooooof wf w woooof wf wooof

ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
woof wooooooof woooof, woooof woooooof wof woooof woof wooooooof.

To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate
Wf woooof, woooof wooof: woof://wooof.wof/woooof







Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
Wooooof w.  Wooooof Wooooooooof Wooof Wooooof Wooooooof-wf woooooooof

works.
wooof.




Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
Wooooooof Wooooof W. Woof wf wof woooooooof wf wof Wooooof Wooooooof-wf

concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
wooooof wf w wooooof wf woooooooof wooof woof wooof wf woooof woooof

with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
woof woooof.  Wof woooof wooof, wf woooooof wof wooooooooof Wooooof

Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.
Wooooooof-wf wOooof woof woof w wooof wooooof wf wooooooof wooooof.







Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
Wooooof Wooooooof-wf wOooof wof wooof wooooof woof wooooof wooooof

editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
woooooof, wof wf wooof wof wooooooof wf Woooof Woooof wf wof W.W.

unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
woooof w wooooooof woooof wf woooooof.  Woof, wf wf wof wooooooooof

keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.
woof wOooof wf woooooooof woof wof woooooooof wooof wooooof.







Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:
Woof woooof wooof wf wof Wof woof wooof wof wof woof WF woooof woooooof:




     http://www.gutenberg.org
     woof://wof.wooooooof.wof




This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
Woof Wof woof woooooof wooooooooof wooof Wooooof Wooooooof-wf,

including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
wooooooof wof wf woof wooooooof wf wof Wooooof Wooooooof Woooooof

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
Wooooof Woooooooof, wof wf woof wooooof wof wof wOooof, wof wof wf

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
wooooooof wf wof wooof woooooooof wf woof wooof wof wOooof.
