
The Project Gutenberg EBook of Moby Dick; or The Whale, by Herman Melville
Moo Moooooo Moooooooo MOooo mo Mooo Mooo; mo Moo Moooo, mo Mooooo Mooooooo




This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
Mooo mOooo mo moo moo moo mo mooooo mooooooo mo mo mooo moo mooo

almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
mooooo mo mooooooooooo mooooooooo.  Moo moo mooo mo, mooo mo mooo mo

re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
mo-moo mo moooo moo moooo mo moo Moooooo Moooooooo Moooooo mooooooo

with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org
mooo mooo mOooo mo mooooo mo moo.moooooooo.moo







Title: Moby Dick; or The Whale
Moooo: Mooo Mooo; mo Moo Moooo




Author: Herman Melville
Mooooo: Mooooo Mooooooo




Last Updated: January 3, 2009
Mooo Moooooo: Moooooo m, mooo

Posting Date: December 25, 2008 [EBook #2701]
Moooooo Mooo: Mooooooo mo, mooo [MOooo #mooo]

Release Date: June, 2001
Moooooo Mooo: Mooo, mooo




Language: English
Mooooooo: Moooooo







*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MOBY DICK; OR THE WHALE ***
*** MOOOO MO MOOO MOOOOOO MOOOOOOOO MOOOO MOOO MOOO; MO MOO MOOOO ***













Produced by Daniel Lazarus and Jonesey
Mooooooo mo Mooooo Moooooo moo Moooooo
















MOBY DICK; OR THE WHALE
MOOO MOOO; MO MOO MOOOO




By Herman Melville
Mo Mooooo Mooooooo













Original Transcriber's Notes:
Mooooooo Moooooooooo'm Moooo:




This text is a combination of etexts, one from the now-defunct ERIS
Mooo mooo mo m moooooooooo mo mooooo, moo mooo moo moo-moooooo MOOO

project at Virginia Tech and one from Project Gutenberg's archives. The
moooooo mo Mooooooo Mooo moo moo mooo Moooooo Moooooooo'm mooooooo. Moo

proofreaders of this version are indebted to The University of Adelaide
mooooooooooo mo mooo moooooo moo mooooooo mo Moo Mooooooooo mo Mooooooo

Library for preserving the Virginia Tech version. The resulting etext
Moooooo moo mooooooooo moo Mooooooo Mooo moooooo. Moo moooooooo moooo

was compared with a public domain hard copy version of the text.
moo mooooooo mooo m mooooo mooooo mooo mooo moooooo mo moo mooo.




In chapters 24, 89, and 90, we substituted a capital L for the symbol
Mo mooooooo mo, mo, moo mo, mo moooooooooo m moooooo M moo moo mooooo

for the British pound, a unit of currency.
moo moo Moooooo moooo, m mooo mo mooooooo.













ETYMOLOGY.
MOOOOOOOO.




(Supplied by a Late Consumptive Usher to a Grammar School)
(Mooooooo mo m Mooo Moooooooooo Moooo mo m Moooooo Mooooo)




The pale Usher--threadbare in coat, heart, body, and brain; I see him
Moo mooo Moooo--mooooooooo mo mooo, moooo, mooo, moo moooo; M moo moo

now. He was ever dusting his old lexicons and grammars, with a queer
moo. Mo moo mooo moooooo moo moo mooooooo moo mooooooo, mooo m moooo

handkerchief, mockingly embellished with all the gay flags of all
mooooooooooo, moooooooo moooooooooo mooo moo moo moo moooo mo moo

the known nations of the world. He loved to dust his old grammars; it
moo moooo moooooo mo moo moooo. Mo moooo mo mooo moo moo mooooooo; mo

somehow mildly reminded him of his mortality.
moooooo mooooo mooooooo moo mo moo moooooooo.




"While you take in hand to school others, and to teach them by what
"Moooo moo mooo mo mooo mo mooooo mooooo, moo mo moooo mooo mo mooo

name a whale-fish is to be called in our tongue leaving out, through
mooo m moooo-mooo mo mo mo mooooo mo moo mooooo moooooo moo, moooooo

ignorance, the letter H, which almost alone maketh the signification of
moooooooo, moo mooooo M, moooo mooooo moooo mooooo moo moooooooooooo mo

the word, you deliver that which is not true." --HACKLUYT
moo mooo, moo moooooo mooo moooo mo moo mooo." --MOOOOOOO




"WHALE.... Sw. and Dan. HVAL. This animal is named from roundness or
"MOOOO.... Mo. moo Moo. MOOO. Mooo mooooo mo moooo mooo moooooooo mo

rolling; for in Dan. HVALT is arched or vaulted." --WEBSTER'S DICTIONARY
moooooo; moo mo Moo. MOOOO mo mooooo mo moooooo." --MOOOOOO'M MOOOOOOOOO




"WHALE.... It is more immediately from the Dut. and Ger. WALLEN; A.S.
"MOOOO.... Mo mo mooo moooooooooo mooo moo Moo. moo Moo. MOOOOO; M.M.

WALW-IAN, to roll, to wallow." --RICHARDSON'S DICTIONARY
MOOO-MOO, mo mooo, mo mooooo." --MOOOOOOOOO'M MOOOOOOOOO




     KETOS,               GREEK.
     MOOOO,               MOOOO.

     CETUS,               LATIN.
     MOOOO,               MOOOO.

     WHOEL,               ANGLO-SAXON.
     MOOOO,               MOOOO-MOOOO.

     HVALT,               DANISH.
     MOOOO,               MOOOOO.

     WAL,                 DUTCH.
     MOO,                 MOOOO.

     HWAL,                SWEDISH.
     MOOO,                MOOOOOO.

     WHALE,               ICELANDIC.
     MOOOO,               MOOOOOOOO.

     WHALE,               ENGLISH.
     MOOOO,               MOOOOOO.

     BALEINE,             FRENCH.
     MOOOOOO,             MOOOOO.

     BALLENA,             SPANISH.
     MOOOOOO,             MOOOOOO.

     PEKEE-NUEE-NUEE,     FEGEE.
     MOOOO-MOOO-MOOO,     MOOOO.

     PEHEE-NUEE-NUEE,     ERROMANGOAN.
     MOOOO-MOOO-MOOO,     MOOOOOOOOOO.













EXTRACTS (Supplied by a Sub-Sub-Librarian).
MOOOOOOO (Mooooooo mo m Moo-Moo-Moooooooo).




It will be seen that this mere painstaking burrower and grub-worm of a
Mo mooo mo mooo mooo mooo mooo moooooooooo mooooooo moo mooo-mooo mo m

poor devil of a Sub-Sub appears to have gone through the long Vaticans
mooo moooo mo m Moo-Moo moooooo mo mooo mooo moooooo moo mooo Mooooooo

and street-stalls of the earth, picking up whatever random allusions to
moo mooooo-mooooo mo moo moooo, moooooo mo mooooooo mooooo moooooooo mo

whales he could anyways find in any book whatsoever, sacred or
mooooo mo moooo moooooo mooo mo moo mooo mooooooooo, mooooo mo

profane. Therefore you must not, in every case at least, take the
moooooo. Moooooooo moo mooo moo, mo moooo mooo mo moooo, mooo moo

higgledy-piggledy whale statements, however authentic, in these
mooooooo-mooooooo moooo mooooooooo, moooooo moooooooo, mo moooo

extracts, for veritable gospel cetology. Far from it. As touching the
mooooooo, moo moooooooo mooooo mooooooo. Moo mooo mo. Mo mooooooo moo

ancient authors generally, as well as the poets here appearing, these
moooooo moooooo moooooooo, mo mooo mo moo moooo mooo moooooooo, moooo

extracts are solely valuable or entertaining, as affording a glancing
mooooooo moo mooooo mooooooo mo mooooooooooo, mo moooooooo m mooooooo

bird's eye view of what has been promiscuously said, thought, fancied,
mooo'm moo mooo mo mooo moo mooo moooooooooooo mooo, moooooo, moooooo,

and sung of Leviathan, by many nations and generations, including our
moo mooo mo Moooooooo, mo mooo moooooo moo moooooooooo, moooooooo moo

own.
moo.




So fare thee well, poor devil of a Sub-Sub, whose commentator I am. Thou
Mo mooo mooo mooo, mooo moooo mo m Moo-Moo, moooo moooooooooo M mo. Mooo

belongest to that hopeless, sallow tribe which no wine of this world
moooooooo mo mooo mooooooo, mooooo moooo moooo mo mooo mo mooo moooo

will ever warm; and for whom even Pale Sherry would be too rosy-strong;
mooo mooo mooo; moo moo mooo mooo Mooo Mooooo moooo mo moo mooo-mooooo;

but with whom one sometimes loves to sit, and feel poor-devilish, too;
moo mooo mooo moo moooooooo moooo mo moo, moo mooo mooo-mooooooo, moo;

and grow convivial upon tears; and say to them bluntly, with full eyes
moo mooo moooooooo mooo moooo; moo moo mo mooo moooooo, mooo mooo mooo

and empty glasses, and in not altogether unpleasant sadness--Give it up,
moo moooo moooooo, moo mo moo mooooooooo mooooooooo moooooo--Mooo mo mo,

Sub-Subs! For by how much the more pains ye take to please the world,
Moo-Mooo! Moo mo moo mooo moo mooo moooo mo mooo mo mooooo moo moooo,

by so much the more shall ye for ever go thankless! Would that I could
mo mo mooo moo mooo moooo mo moo mooo mo moooooooo! Moooo mooo M moooo

clear out Hampton Court and the Tuileries for ye! But gulp down your
moooo moo Moooooo Moooo moo moo Moooooooo moo mo! Moo mooo mooo mooo

tears and hie aloft to the royal-mast with your hearts; for your friends
moooo moo moo moooo mo moo moooo-mooo mooo mooo mooooo; moo mooo moooooo

who have gone before are clearing out the seven-storied heavens, and
moo mooo mooo mooooo moo mooooooo moo moo moooo-moooooo moooooo, moo

making refugees of long-pampered Gabriel, Michael, and Raphael, against
mooooo mooooooo mo mooo-mooooooo Moooooo, Moooooo, moo Moooooo, moooooo

your coming. Here ye strike but splintered hearts together--there, ye
mooo mooooo. Mooo mo mooooo moo mooooooooo mooooo mooooooo--moooo, mo

shall strike unsplinterable glasses!
moooo mooooo mooooooooooooo moooooo!







EXTRACTS.
MOOOOOOO.




"And God created great whales." --GENESIS.
"Moo Moo moooooo moooo mooooo." --MOOOOOO.




"Leviathan maketh a path to shine after him; One would think the deep to
"Moooooooo mooooo m mooo mo moooo moooo moo; Moo moooo moooo moo mooo mo

be hoary." --JOB.
mo moooo." --MOO.




"Now the Lord had prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonah." --JONAH.
"Moo moo Mooo moo mooooooo m moooo mooo mo moooooo mo Moooo." --MOOOO.




"There go the ships; there is that Leviathan whom thou hast made to play
"Moooo mo moo moooo; moooo mo mooo Moooooooo mooo mooo mooo mooo mo mooo

therein." --PSALMS.
moooooo." --MOOOOO.




"In that day, the Lord with his sore, and great, and strong sword,
"Mo mooo moo, moo Mooo mooo moo mooo, moo moooo, moo mooooo moooo,

shall punish Leviathan the piercing serpent, even Leviathan that crooked
moooo mooooo Moooooooo moo mooooooo moooooo, mooo Moooooooo mooo moooooo

serpent; and he shall slay the dragon that is in the sea." --ISAIAH
moooooo; moo mo moooo mooo moo mooooo mooo mo mo moo moo." --MOOOOO




"And what thing soever besides cometh within the chaos of this monster's
"Moo mooo moooo mooooo moooooo mooooo mooooo moo moooo mo mooo moooooo'm

mouth, be it beast, boat, or stone, down it goes all incontinently that
moooo, mo mo moooo, mooo, mo moooo, mooo mo mooo moo moooooooooooo mooo

foul great swallow of his, and perisheth in the bottomless gulf of his
mooo moooo moooooo mo moo, moo moooooooo mo moo mooooooooo mooo mo moo

paunch." --HOLLAND'S PLUTARCH'S MORALS.
mooooo." --MOOOOOO'M MOOOOOOO'M MOOOOO.




"The Indian Sea breedeth the most and the biggest fishes that are: among
"Moo Mooooo Moo mooooooo moo mooo moo moo moooooo mooooo mooo moo: moooo

which the Whales and Whirlpooles called Balaene, take up as much in
moooo moo Mooooo moo Moooooooooo mooooo Moooooo, mooo mo mo mooo mo

length as four acres or arpens of land." --HOLLAND'S PLINY.
mooooo mo mooo moooo mo mooooo mo mooo." --MOOOOOO'M MOOOO.




"Scarcely had we proceeded two days on the sea, when about sunrise a
"Mooooooo moo mo moooooooo moo mooo mo moo moo, mooo moooo moooooo m

great many Whales and other monsters of the sea, appeared. Among the
moooo mooo Mooooo moo moooo mooooooo mo moo moo, mooooooo. Moooo moo

former, one was of a most monstrous size.... This came towards us,
mooooo, moo moo mo m mooo moooooooo mooo.... Mooo mooo moooooo mo,

open-mouthed, raising the waves on all sides, and beating the sea before
mooo-moooooo, moooooo moo moooo mo moo moooo, moo moooooo moo moo mooooo

him into a foam." --TOOKE'S LUCIAN. "THE TRUE HISTORY."
moo mooo m mooo." --MOOOO'M MOOOOO. "MOO MOOO MOOOOOO."




"He visited this country also with a view of catching horse-whales,
"Mo moooooo mooo moooooo mooo mooo m mooo mo mooooooo moooo-mooooo,

which had bones of very great value for their teeth, of which he brought
moooo moo moooo mo mooo moooo moooo moo moooo moooo, mo moooo mo moooooo

some to the king.... The best whales were catched in his own country, of
mooo mo moo mooo.... Moo mooo mooooo mooo moooooo mo moo moo moooooo, mo

which some were forty-eight, some fifty yards long. He said that he was
moooo mooo mooo moooo-moooo, mooo moooo moooo mooo. Mo mooo mooo mo moo

one of six who had killed sixty in two days." --OTHER OR OTHER'S VERBAL
moo mo moo moo moo mooooo moooo mo moo mooo." --MOOOO MO MOOOO'M MOOOOO

NARRATIVE TAKEN DOWN FROM HIS MOUTH BY KING ALFRED, A.D. 890.
MOOOOOOOO MOOOO MOOO MOOO MOO MOOOO MO MOOO MOOOOO, M.M. moo.




"And whereas all the other things, whether beast or vessel, that
"Moo moooooo moo moo moooo mooooo, moooooo moooo mo mooooo, mooo

enter into the dreadful gulf of this monster's (whale's) mouth, are
moooo mooo moo mooooooo mooo mo mooo moooooo'm (moooo'm) moooo, moo

immediately lost and swallowed up, the sea-gudgeon retires into it in
moooooooooo mooo moo moooooooo mo, moo moo-moooooo moooooo mooo mo mo

great security, and there sleeps." --MONTAIGNE. --APOLOGY FOR RAIMOND
moooo mooooooo, moo moooo mooooo." --MOOOOOOOO. --MOOOOOO MOO MOOOOOO

SEBOND.
MOOOOO.




"Let us fly, let us fly! Old Nick take me if is not Leviathan described
"Moo mo moo, moo mo moo! Moo Mooo mooo mo mo mo moo Moooooooo moooooooo

by the noble prophet Moses in the life of patient Job." --RABELAIS.
mo moo moooo moooooo Moooo mo moo mooo mo moooooo Moo." --MOOOOOOO.




"This whale's liver was two cartloads." --STOWE'S ANNALS.
"Mooo moooo'm moooo moo moo moooooooo." --MOOOO'M MOOOOO.




"The great Leviathan that maketh the seas to seethe like boiling pan."
"Moo moooo Moooooooo mooo mooooo moo mooo mo mooooo mooo moooooo moo."

--LORD BACON'S VERSION OF THE PSALMS.
--MOOO MOOOO'M MOOOOOO MO MOO MOOOOO.




"Touching that monstrous bulk of the whale or ork we have received
"Mooooooo mooo moooooooo mooo mo moo moooo mo moo mo mooo mooooooo

nothing certain. They grow exceeding fat, insomuch that an incredible
moooooo moooooo. Mooo mooo moooooooo moo, mooooooo mooo mo mooooooooo

quantity of oil will be extracted out of one whale." --IBID. "HISTORY OF
mooooooo mo moo mooo mo moooooooo moo mo moo moooo." --MOOO. "MOOOOOO MO

LIFE AND DEATH."
MOOO MOO MOOOO."




"The sovereignest thing on earth is parmacetti for an inward bruise."
"Moo mooooooooooo moooo mo moooo mo mooooooooo moo mo mooooo mooooo."

--KING HENRY.
--MOOO MOOOO.




"Very like a whale." --HAMLET.
"Mooo mooo m moooo." --MOOOOO.




     "Which to secure, no skill of leach's art
     "Moooo mo mooooo, mo moooo mo moooo'm moo

     Mote him availle, but to returne againe
     Mooo moo moooooo, moo mo moooooo mooooo

     To his wound's worker, that with lowly dart,
     Mo moo moooo'm mooooo, mooo mooo moooo mooo,

     Dinting his breast, had bred his restless paine,
     Moooooo moo mooooo, moo mooo moo mooooooo moooo,

     Like as the wounded whale to shore flies thro' the maine."
     Mooo mo moo moooooo moooo mo moooo moooo mooo' moo moooo."

     --THE FAERIE QUEEN.
     --MOO MOOOOO MOOOO.




"Immense as whales, the motion of whose vast bodies can in a peaceful
"Moooooo mo mooooo, moo mooooo mo moooo mooo mooooo moo mo m mooooooo

calm trouble the ocean til it boil." --SIR WILLIAM DAVENANT. PREFACE TO
mooo moooooo moo moooo moo mo mooo." --MOO MOOOOOO MOOOOOOO. MOOOOOO MO

GONDIBERT.
MOOOOOOOO.




"What spermacetti is, men might justly doubt, since the learned
"Mooo moooooooooo mo, moo moooo mooooo moooo, moooo moo moooooo

Hosmannus in his work of thirty years, saith plainly, Nescio quid sit."
Moooooooo mo moo mooo mo mooooo moooo, moooo moooooo, Mooooo mooo moo."

--SIR T. BROWNE. OF SPERMA CETI AND THE SPERMA CETI WHALE. VIDE HIS V.
--MOO M. MOOOOO. MO MOOOOO MOOO MOO MOO MOOOOO MOOO MOOOO. MOOO MOO M.

E.
M.




     "Like Spencer's Talus with his modern flail
     "Mooo Moooooo'm Moooo mooo moo mooooo moooo

     He threatens ruin with his ponderous tail.
     Mo moooooooo mooo mooo moo moooooooo mooo.

   ...
   ...

     Their fixed jav'lins in his side he wears,
     Moooo moooo moo'mooo mo moo mooo mo moooo,

     And on his back a grove of pikes appears."
     Moo mo moo mooo m moooo mo moooo moooooo."

     --WALLER'S BATTLE OF THE SUMMER ISLANDS.
     --MOOOOO'M MOOOOO MO MOO MOOOOO MOOOOOO.




"By art is created that great Leviathan, called a Commonwealth or
"Mo moo mo moooooo mooo moooo Moooooooo, mooooo m Mooooooooooo mo

State--(in Latin, Civitas) which is but an artificial man." --OPENING
Moooo--(mo Moooo, Moooooo) moooo mo moo mo mooooooooo moo." --MOOOOOO

SENTENCE OF HOBBES'S LEVIATHAN.
MOOOOOOO MO MOOOOO'M MOOOOOOOO.




"Silly Mansoul swallowed it without chewing, as if it had been a sprat
"Moooo Moooooo moooooooo mo moooooo moooooo, mo mo mo moo mooo m moooo

in the mouth of a whale." --PILGRIM'S PROGRESS.
mo moo moooo mo m moooo." --MOOOOOO'M MOOOOOOO.




     "That sea beast
     "Mooo moo moooo

     Leviathan, which God of all his works
     Moooooooo, moooo Moo mo moo moo moooo

     Created hugest that swim the ocean stream." --PARADISE LOST.
     Moooooo mooooo mooo mooo moo moooo mooooo." --MOOOOOOO MOOO.




     ---"There Leviathan,
     ---"Moooo Moooooooo,

     Hugest of living creatures, in the deep
     Mooooo mo mooooo moooooooo, mo moo mooo

     Stretched like a promontory sleeps or swims,
     Moooooooo mooo m mooooooooo mooooo mo moooo,

     And seems a moving land; and at his gills
     Moo moooo m mooooo mooo; moo mo moo moooo

     Draws in, and at his breath spouts out a sea." --IBID.
     Moooo mo, moo mo moo mooooo mooooo moo m moo." --MOOO.




"The mighty whales which swim in a sea of water, and have a sea of oil
"Moo mooooo mooooo moooo mooo mo m moo mo moooo, moo mooo m moo mo moo

swimming in them." --FULLLER'S PROFANE AND HOLY STATE.
mooooooo mo mooo." --MOOOOOO'M MOOOOOO MOO MOOO MOOOO.




     "So close behind some promontory lie
     "Mo moooo mooooo mooo mooooooooo moo

     The huge Leviathan to attend their prey,
     Moo mooo Moooooooo mo mooooo moooo mooo,

     And give no chance, but swallow in the fry,
     Moo mooo mo mooooo, moo moooooo mo moo moo,

     Which through their gaping jaws mistake the way."
     Moooo moooooo moooo mooooo mooo moooooo moo moo."

     --DRYDEN'S ANNUS MIRABILIS.
     --MOOOOO'M MOOOO MOOOOOOOO.




"While the whale is floating at the stern of the ship, they cut off his
"Moooo moo moooo mo mooooooo mo moo moooo mo moo mooo, mooo moo moo moo

head, and tow it with a boat as near the shore as it will come; but it
mooo, moo moo mo mooo m mooo mo mooo moo moooo mo mo mooo mooo; moo mo

will be aground in twelve or thirteen feet water." --THOMAS EDGE'S TEN
mooo mo moooooo mo mooooo mo mooooooo mooo moooo." --MOOOOO MOOO'M MOO

VOYAGES TO SPITZBERGEN, IN PURCHAS.
MOOOOOO MO MOOOOOOOOOO, MO MOOOOOO.




"In their way they saw many whales sporting in the ocean, and in
"Mo moooo moo mooo moo mooo mooooo mooooooo mo moo moooo, moo mo

wantonness fuzzing up the water through their pipes and vents, which
mooooooooo moooooo mo moo moooo moooooo moooo moooo moo moooo, moooo

nature has placed on their shoulders." --SIR T. HERBERT'S VOYAGES INTO
mooooo moo mooooo mo moooo moooooooo." --MOO M. MOOOOOO'M MOOOOOO MOOO

ASIA AND AFRICA. HARRIS COLL.
MOOO MOO MOOOOO. MOOOOO MOOO.




"Here they saw such huge troops of whales, that they were forced to
"Mooo mooo moo mooo mooo mooooo mo mooooo, mooo mooo mooo mooooo mo

proceed with a great deal of caution for fear they should run their ship
moooooo mooo m moooo mooo mo moooooo moo mooo mooo mooooo moo moooo mooo

upon them." --SCHOUTEN'S SIXTH CIRCUMNAVIGATION.
mooo mooo." --MOOOOOOO'M MOOOO MOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO.




"We set sail from the Elbe, wind N.E. in the ship called The
"Mo moo mooo mooo moo Mooo, mooo M.M. mo moo mooo mooooo Moo

Jonas-in-the-Whale.... Some say the whale can't open his mouth, but that
Moooo-mo-moo-Moooo.... Mooo moo moo moooo moo'm mooo moo moooo, moo mooo

is a fable.... They frequently climb up the masts to see whether they
mo m moooo.... Mooo mooooooooo moooo mo moo moooo mo moo moooooo mooo

can see a whale, for the first discoverer has a ducat for his pains....
moo moo m moooo, moo moo moooo mooooooooo moo m moooo moo moo moooo....

I was told of a whale taken near Shetland, that had above a barrel of
M moo mooo mo m moooo moooo mooo Mooooooo, mooo moo moooo m mooooo mo

herrings in his belly.... One of our harpooneers told me that he caught
mooooooo mo moo moooo.... Moo mo moo moooooooooo mooo mo mooo mo mooooo

once a whale in Spitzbergen that was white all over." --A VOYAGE TO
mooo m moooo mo Moooooooooo mooo moo moooo moo mooo." --M MOOOOO MO

GREENLAND, A.D. 1671 HARRIS COLL.
MOOOOOOOO, M.M. mooo MOOOOO MOOO.




"Several whales have come in upon this coast (Fife) Anno 1652, one
"Moooooo mooooo mooo mooo mo mooo mooo moooo (Mooo) Mooo mooo, moo

eighty feet in length of the whale-bone kind came in, which (as I was
mooooo mooo mo mooooo mo moo moooo-mooo mooo mooo mo, moooo (mo M moo

informed), besides a vast quantity of oil, did afford 500 weight of
mooooooo), moooooo m mooo mooooooo mo moo, moo mooooo moo mooooo mo

baleen. The jaws of it stand for a gate in the garden of Pitferren."
mooooo. Moo mooo mo mo moooo moo m mooo mo moo mooooo mo Moooooooo."

--SIBBALD'S FIFE AND KINROSS.
--MOOOOOO'M MOOO MOO MOOOOOO.




"Myself have agreed to try whether I can master and kill this
"Mooooo mooo mooooo mo moo moooooo M moo mooooo moo mooo mooo

Sperma-ceti whale, for I could never hear of any of that sort that was
Mooooo-mooo moooo, moo M moooo moooo mooo mo moo mo mooo mooo mooo moo

killed by any man, such is his fierceness and swiftness." --RICHARD
mooooo mo moo moo, mooo mo moo mooooooooo moo moooooooo." --MOOOOOO

STRAFFORD'S LETTER FROM THE BERMUDAS. PHIL. TRANS. A.D. 1668.
MOOOOOOOO'M MOOOOO MOOO MOO MOOOOOOO. MOOO. MOOOO. M.M. mooo.




"Whales in the sea God's voice obey." --N. E. PRIMER.
"Mooooo mo moo moo Moo'm moooo mooo." --M. M. MOOOOO.




"We saw also abundance of large whales, there being more in those
"Mo moo mooo moooooooo mo moooo mooooo, moooo moooo mooo mo moooo

southern seas, as I may say, by a hundred to one; than we have to the
mooooooo mooo, mo M moo moo, mo m moooooo mo moo; mooo mo mooo mo moo

northward of us." --CAPTAIN COWLEY'S VOYAGE ROUND THE GLOBE, A.D. 1729.
moooooooo mo mo." --MOOOOOO MOOOOO'M MOOOOO MOOOO MOO MOOOO, M.M. mooo.




"... and the breath of the whale is frequently attended with such an
"... moo moo mooooo mo moo moooo mo mooooooooo mooooooo mooo mooo mo

insupportable smell, as to bring on a disorder of the brain." --ULLOA'S
moooooooooooo moooo, mo mo moooo mo m mooooooo mo moo moooo." --MOOOO'M

SOUTH AMERICA.
MOOOO MOOOOOO.




     "To fifty chosen sylphs of special note,
     "Mo moooo mooooo mooooo mo moooooo mooo,

     We trust the important charge, the petticoat.
     Mo moooo moo moooooooo mooooo, moo moooooooo.

     Oft have we known that seven-fold fence to fail,
     Moo mooo mo moooo mooo moooo-mooo moooo mo mooo,

     Tho' stuffed with hoops and armed with ribs of whale."
     Moo' moooooo mooo moooo moo moooo mooo mooo mo moooo."

     --RAPE OF THE LOCK.
     --MOOO MO MOO MOOO.




"If we compare land animals in respect to magnitude, with those
"Mo mo moooooo mooo moooooo mo moooooo mo moooooooo, mooo moooo

that take up their abode in the deep, we shall find they will appear
mooo mooo mo moooo moooo mo moo mooo, mo moooo mooo mooo mooo mooooo

contemptible in the comparison. The whale is doubtless the largest
mooooooooooo mo moo mooooooooo. Moo moooo mo moooooooo moo moooooo

animal in creation." --GOLDSMITH, NAT. HIST.
mooooo mo mooooooo." --MOOOOOOOO, MOO. MOOO.




"If you should write a fable for little fishes, you would make them
"Mo moo mooooo moooo m moooo moo mooooo mooooo, moo moooo mooo mooo

speak like great wales." --GOLDSMITH TO JOHNSON.
moooo mooo moooo moooo." --MOOOOOOOO MO MOOOOOO.




"In the afternoon we saw what was supposed to be a rock, but it was
"Mo moo moooooooo mo moo mooo moo mooooooo mo mo m mooo, moo mo moo

found to be a dead whale, which some Asiatics had killed, and were then
moooo mo mo m mooo moooo, moooo mooo Mooooooo moo mooooo, moo mooo mooo

towing ashore. They seemed to endeavor to conceal themselves behind the
mooooo mooooo. Mooo mooooo mo mooooooo mo moooooo mooooooooo mooooo moo

whale, in order to avoid being seen by us." --COOK'S VOYAGES.
moooo, mo moooo mo moooo moooo mooo mo mo." --MOOO'M MOOOOOO.




"The larger whales, they seldom venture to attack. They stand in so
"Moo mooooo mooooo, mooo mooooo moooooo mo mooooo. Mooo moooo mo mo

great dread of some of them, that when out at sea they are afraid to
moooo moooo mo mooo mo mooo, mooo mooo moo mo moo mooo moo mooooo mo

mention even their names, and carry dung, lime-stone, juniper-wood,
moooooo mooo moooo moooo, moo moooo mooo, mooo-moooo, moooooo-mooo,

and some other articles of the same nature in their boats, in order to
moo mooo moooo mooooooo mo moo mooo mooooo mo moooo moooo, mo moooo mo

terrify and prevent their too near approach." --UNO VON TROIL'S LETTERS
moooooo moo moooooo moooo moo mooo mooooooo." --MOO MOO MOOOO'M MOOOOOO

ON BANKS'S AND SOLANDER'S VOYAGE TO ICELAND IN 1772.
MO MOOOO'M MOO MOOOOOOO'M MOOOOO MO MOOOOOO MO mooo.




"The Spermacetti Whale found by the Nantuckois, is an active, fierce
"Moo Moooooooooo Moooo moooo mo moo Mooooooooo, mo mo mooooo, mooooo

animal, and requires vast address and boldness in the fishermen."
mooooo, moo mooooooo mooo moooooo moo mooooooo mo moo moooooooo."

--THOMAS JEFFERSON'S WHALE MEMORIAL TO THE FRENCH MINISTER IN 1778.
--MOOOOO MOOOOOOOO'M MOOOO MOOOOOOO MO MOO MOOOOO MOOOOOOO MO mooo.




"And pray, sir, what in the world is equal to it?" --EDMUND BURKE'S
"Moo mooo, moo, mooo mo moo moooo mo moooo mo mo?" --MOOOOO MOOOO'M

REFERENCE IN PARLIAMENT TO THE NANTUCKET WHALE-FISHERY.
MOOOOOOOO MO MOOOOOOOOO MO MOO MOOOOOOOO MOOOO-MOOOOOO.




"Spain--a great whale stranded on the shores of Europe." --EDMUND BURKE.
"Moooo--m moooo moooo mooooooo mo moo mooooo mo Mooooo." --MOOOOO MOOOO.

(SOMEWHERE.)
(MOOOOOOOO.)




"A tenth branch of the king's ordinary revenue, said to be grounded on
"M moooo mooooo mo moo mooo'm mooooooo moooooo, mooo mo mo mooooooo mo

the consideration of his guarding and protecting the seas from pirates
moo moooooooooooo mo moo mooooooo moo mooooooooo moo mooo mooo moooooo

and robbers, is the right to royal fish, which are whale and sturgeon.
moo moooooo, mo moo moooo mo moooo mooo, moooo moo moooo moo mooooooo.

And these, when either thrown ashore or caught near the coast, are the
Moo moooo, mooo mooooo mooooo mooooo mo mooooo mooo moo moooo, moo moo

property of the king." --BLACKSTONE.
mooooooo mo moo mooo." --MOOOOOOOOO.




     "Soon to the sport of death the crews repair:
     "Mooo mo moo moooo mo moooo moo moooo mooooo:

     Rodmond unerring o'er his head suspends
     Moooooo mooooooo m'mo moo mooo mooooooo

     The barbed steel, and every turn attends."
     Moo mooooo moooo, moo moooo mooo moooooo."

     --FALCONER'S SHIPWRECK.
     --MOOOOOOO'M MOOOOOOOO.




     "Bright shone the roofs, the domes, the spires,
     "Mooooo moooo moo moooo, moo moooo, moo mooooo,

     And rockets blew self driven,
     Moo moooooo mooo mooo mooooo,

     To hang their momentary fire
     Mo mooo moooo moooooooo mooo

     Around the vault of heaven.
     Mooooo moo moooo mo mooooo.




     "So fire with water to compare,
     "Mo mooo mooo moooo mo moooooo,

     The ocean serves on high,
     Moo moooo mooooo mo mooo,

     Up-spouted by a whale in air,
     Mo-moooooo mo m moooo mo moo,

     To express unwieldy joy." --COWPER, ON THE QUEEN'S
     Mo moooooo mooooooo moo." --MOOOOO, MO MOO MOOOO'M

     VISIT TO LONDON.
     MOOOO MO MOOOOO.




"Ten or fifteen gallons of blood are thrown out of the heart at
"Moo mo moooooo moooooo mo moooo moo mooooo moo mo moo moooo mo

a stroke, with immense velocity." --JOHN HUNTER'S ACCOUNT OF THE
m mooooo, mooo moooooo mooooooo." --MOOO MOOOOO'M MOOOOOO MO MOO

DISSECTION OF A WHALE. (A SMALL SIZED ONE.)
MOOOOOOOOO MO M MOOOO. (M MOOOO MOOOO MOO.)




"The aorta of a whale is larger in the bore than the main pipe of the
"Moo moooo mo m moooo mo mooooo mo moo mooo mooo moo mooo mooo mo moo

water-works at London Bridge, and the water roaring in its passage
moooo-moooo mo Mooooo Mooooo, moo moo moooo moooooo mo moo moooooo

through that pipe is inferior in impetus and velocity to the blood
moooooo mooo mooo mo mooooooo mo moooooo moo mooooooo mo moo moooo

gushing from the whale's heart." --PALEY'S THEOLOGY.
moooooo mooo moo moooo'm moooo." --MOOOO'M MOOOOOOO.




"The whale is a mammiferous animal without hind feet." --BARON CUVIER.
"Moo moooo mo m moooooooooo mooooo moooooo mooo mooo." --MOOOO MOOOOO.




"In 40 degrees south, we saw Spermacetti Whales, but did not take
"Mo mo moooooo moooo, mo moo Moooooooooo Mooooo, moo moo moo mooo

any till the first of May, the sea being then covered with them."
moo mooo moo moooo mo Moo, moo moo moooo mooo moooooo mooo mooo."

--COLNETT'S VOYAGE FOR THE PURPOSE OF EXTENDING THE SPERMACETI WHALE
--MOOOOOO'M MOOOOO MOO MOO MOOOOOO MO MOOOOOOOO MOO MOOOOOOOOO MOOOO

FISHERY.
MOOOOOO.




     "In the free element beneath me swam,
     "Mo moo mooo moooooo moooooo mo mooo,

     Floundered and dived, in play, in chace, in battle,
     Mooooooooo moo moooo, mo mooo, mo moooo, mo mooooo,

     Fishes of every colour, form, and kind;
     Mooooo mo moooo mooooo, mooo, moo mooo;

     Which language cannot paint, and mariner
     Moooo mooooooo mooooo moooo, moo moooooo

     Had never seen; from dread Leviathan
     Moo moooo mooo; mooo moooo Moooooooo

     To insect millions peopling every wave:
     Mo mooooo mooooooo mooooooo moooo mooo:

     Gather'd in shoals immense, like floating islands,
     Mooooo'm mo mooooo moooooo, mooo mooooooo moooooo,

     Led by mysterious instincts through that waste
     Moo mo mooooooooo moooooooo moooooo mooo moooo

     And trackless region, though on every side
     Moo moooooooo mooooo, mooooo mo moooo mooo

     Assaulted by voracious enemies,
     Moooooooo mo moooooooo moooooo,

     Whales, sharks, and monsters, arm'd in front or jaw,
     Mooooo, mooooo, moo mooooooo, moo'm mo moooo mo moo,

     With swords, saws, spiral horns, or hooked fangs."
     Mooo mooooo, mooo, mooooo moooo, mo mooooo moooo."

     --MONTGOMERY'S WORLD BEFORE THE FLOOD.
     --MOOOOOOOOO'M MOOOO MOOOOO MOO MOOOO.




     "Io!  Paean!  Io! sing.
     "Mo!  Moooo!  Mo! mooo.

     To the finny people's king.
     Mo moo moooo mooooo'm mooo.

     Not a mightier whale than this
     Moo m mooooooo moooo mooo mooo

     In the vast Atlantic is;
     Mo moo mooo Mooooooo mo;

     Not a fatter fish than he,
     Moo m mooooo mooo mooo mo,

     Flounders round the Polar Sea."
     Moooooooo moooo moo Moooo Moo."

     --CHARLES LAMB'S TRIUMPH OF THE WHALE.
     --MOOOOOO MOOO'M MOOOOOO MO MOO MOOOO.




"In the year 1690 some persons were on a high hill observing the
"Mo moo mooo mooo mooo moooooo mooo mo m mooo mooo moooooooo moo

whales spouting and sporting with each other, when one observed:
mooooo mooooooo moo mooooooo mooo mooo moooo, mooo moo mooooooo:

there--pointing to the sea--is a green pasture where our children's
moooo--mooooooo mo moo moo--mo m moooo moooooo moooo moo mooooooo'm

grand-children will go for bread." --OBED MACY'S HISTORY OF NANTUCKET.
moooo-mooooooo mooo mo moo moooo." --MOOO MOOO'M MOOOOOO MO MOOOOOOOO.




"I built a cottage for Susan and myself and made a gateway in the form
"M moooo m moooooo moo Moooo moo mooooo moo mooo m moooooo mo moo mooo

of a Gothic Arch, by setting up a whale's jaw bones." --HAWTHORNE'S
mo m Mooooo Mooo, mo moooooo mo m moooo'm moo moooo." --MOOOOOOOO'M

TWICE TOLD TALES.
MOOOO MOOO MOOOO.




"She came to bespeak a monument for her first love, who had been killed
"Moo mooo mo moooooo m mooooooo moo moo moooo mooo, moo moo mooo mooooo

by a whale in the Pacific ocean, no less than forty years ago." --IBID.
mo m moooo mo moo Moooooo moooo, mo mooo mooo moooo moooo moo." --MOOO.




"No, Sir, 'tis a Right Whale," answered Tom; "I saw his sprout; he threw
"Mo, Moo, 'moo m Moooo Moooo," mooooooo Moo; "M moo moo mooooo; mo moooo

up a pair of as pretty rainbows as a Christian would wish to look at.
mo m mooo mo mo mooooo mooooooo mo m Moooooooo moooo mooo mo mooo mo.

He's a raal oil-butt, that fellow!" --COOPER'S PILOT.
Mo'm m mooo moo-mooo, mooo mooooo!" --MOOOOO'M MOOOO.




"The papers were brought in, and we saw in the Berlin Gazette
"Moo mooooo mooo moooooo mo, moo mo moo mo moo Mooooo Moooooo

that whales had been introduced on the stage there." --ECKERMANN'S
mooo mooooo moo mooo mooooooooo mo moo moooo moooo." --MOOOOOOOO'M

CONVERSATIONS WITH GOETHE.
MOOOOOOOOOOOO MOOO MOOOOO.




"My God! Mr. Chace, what is the matter?" I answered, "we have been stove
"Mo Moo! Mo. Moooo, mooo mo moo mooooo?" M mooooooo, "mo mooo mooo moooo

by a whale." --"NARRATIVE OF THE SHIPWRECK OF THE WHALE SHIP ESSEX OF
mo m moooo." --"MOOOOOOOO MO MOO MOOOOOOOO MO MOO MOOOO MOOO MOOOO MO

NANTUCKET, WHICH WAS ATTACKED AND FINALLY DESTROYED BY A LARGE SPERM
MOOOOOOOO, MOOOO MOO MOOOOOOO MOO MOOOOOO MOOOOOOOO MO M MOOOO MOOOO

WHALE IN THE PACIFIC OCEAN." BY OWEN CHACE OF NANTUCKET, FIRST MATE OF
MOOOO MO MOO MOOOOOO MOOOO." MO MOOO MOOOO MO MOOOOOOOO, MOOOO MOOO MO

SAID VESSEL. NEW YORK, 1821.
MOOO MOOOOO. MOO MOOO, mooo.




     "A mariner sat in the shrouds one night,
     "M moooooo moo mo moo moooooo moo moooo,

     The wind was piping free;
     Moo mooo moo mooooo mooo;

     Now bright, now dimmed, was the moonlight pale,
     Moo mooooo, moo mooooo, moo moo moooooooo mooo,

     And the phospher gleamed in the wake of the whale,
     Moo moo mooooooo moooooo mo moo mooo mo moo moooo,

     As it floundered in the sea."
     Mo mo mooooooooo mo moo moo."

     --ELIZABETH OAKES SMITH.
     --MOOOOOOOO MOOOO MOOOO.




"The quantity of line withdrawn from the boats engaged in the capture
"Moo mooooooo mo mooo moooooooo mooo moo moooo moooooo mo moo moooooo

of this one whale, amounted altogether to 10,440 yards or nearly six
mo mooo moo moooo, mooooooo mooooooooo mo mo,moo moooo mo mooooo moo

English miles....
Moooooo moooo....




"Sometimes the whale shakes its tremendous tail in the air, which,
"Moooooooo moo moooo mooooo moo mooooooooo mooo mo moo moo, moooo,

cracking like a whip, resounds to the distance of three or four miles."
mooooooo mooo m mooo, mooooooo mo moo mooooooo mo moooo mo mooo moooo."

--SCORESBY.
--MOOOOOOO.




"Mad with the agonies he endures from these fresh attacks, the
"Moo mooo moo moooooo mo moooooo mooo moooo moooo moooooo, moo

infuriated Sperm Whale rolls over and over; he rears his enormous head,
mooooooooo Moooo Moooo moooo mooo moo mooo; mo moooo moo mooooooo mooo,

and with wide expanded jaws snaps at everything around him; he rushes
moo mooo mooo mooooooo mooo moooo mo mooooooooo mooooo moo; mo mooooo

at the boats with his head; they are propelled before him with vast
mo moo moooo mooo moo mooo; mooo moo moooooooo mooooo moo mooo mooo

swiftness, and sometimes utterly destroyed.... It is a matter of great
moooooooo, moo moooooooo moooooo moooooooo.... Mo mo m mooooo mo moooo

astonishment that the consideration of the habits of so interesting,
mooooooooooo mooo moo moooooooooooo mo moo mooooo mo mo moooooooooo,

and, in a commercial point of view, so important an animal (as the Sperm
moo, mo m mooooooooo moooo mo mooo, mo moooooooo mo mooooo (mo moo Moooo

Whale) should have been so entirely neglected, or should have excited
Moooo) mooooo mooo mooo mo mooooooo moooooooo, mo mooooo mooo moooooo

so little curiosity among the numerous, and many of them competent
mo mooooo moooooooo moooo moo mooooooo, moo mooo mo mooo moooooooo

observers, that of late years, must have possessed the most abundant
moooooooo, mooo mo mooo moooo, mooo mooo moooooooo moo mooo mooooooo

and the most convenient opportunities of witnessing their habitudes."
moo moo mooo mooooooooo moooooooooooo mo mooooooooo moooo moooooooo."

--THOMAS BEALE'S HISTORY OF THE SPERM WHALE, 1839.
--MOOOOO MOOOO'M MOOOOOO MO MOO MOOOO MOOOO, mooo.




"The Cachalot" (Sperm Whale) "is not only better armed than the True
"Moo Mooooooo" (Moooo Moooo) "mo moo mooo mooooo moooo mooo moo Mooo

Whale" (Greenland or Right Whale) "in possessing a formidable weapon
Moooo" (Moooooooo mo Moooo Moooo) "mo mooooooooo m mooooooooo mooooo

at either extremity of its body, but also more frequently displays a
mo mooooo moooooooo mo moo mooo, moo mooo mooo mooooooooo mooooooo m

disposition to employ these weapons offensively and in manner at once so
moooooooooo mo mooooo moooo moooooo moooooooooo moo mo mooooo mo mooo mo

artful, bold, and mischievous, as to lead to its being regarded as the
mooooo, mooo, moo moooooooooo, mo mo mooo mo moo moooo mooooooo mo moo

most dangerous to attack of all the known species of the whale tribe."
mooo moooooooo mo mooooo mo moo moo moooo moooooo mo moo moooo moooo."

--FREDERICK DEBELL BENNETT'S WHALING VOYAGE ROUND THE GLOBE, 1840.
--MOOOOOOOO MOOOOO MOOOOOO'M MOOOOOO MOOOOO MOOOO MOO MOOOO, mooo.




     October 13.  "There she blows," was sung out from the mast-head.
     Moooooo mo.  "Moooo moo moooo," moo mooo moo mooo moo mooo-mooo.

     "Where away?" demanded the captain.
     "Moooo mooo?" mooooooo moo moooooo.

     "Three points off the lee bow, sir."
     "Moooo mooooo moo moo moo moo, moo."

     "Raise up your wheel.  Steady!"  "Steady, sir."
     "Moooo mo mooo moooo.  Mooooo!"  "Mooooo, moo."

     "Mast-head ahoy!  Do you see that whale now?"
     "Mooo-mooo mooo!  Mo moo moo mooo moooo moo?"

     "Ay ay, sir!  A shoal of Sperm Whales!  There she blows!  There she
     "Mo mo, moo!  M moooo mo Moooo Mooooo!  Moooo moo moooo!  Moooo moo

     breaches!"
     mooooooo!"

     "Sing out! sing out every time!"
     "Mooo moo! mooo moo moooo mooo!"

     "Ay Ay, sir!  There she blows! there--there--THAR she
     "Mo Mo, moo!  Moooo moo moooo! moooo--moooo--MOOO moo

     blows--bowes--bo-o-os!"
     moooo--moooo--mo-m-mo!"

     "How far off?"
     "Moo moo moo?"

     "Two miles and a half."
     "Moo moooo moo m mooo."

     "Thunder and lightning! so near!  Call all hands."
     "Moooooo moo moooooooo! mo mooo!  Mooo moo moooo."

     --J. ROSS BROWNE'S ETCHINGS OF A WHALING CRUIZE.  1846.
     --M. MOOO MOOOOO'M MOOOOOOO MO M MOOOOOO MOOOOO.  mooo.




"The Whale-ship Globe, on board of which vessel occurred the horrid
"Moo Moooo-mooo Moooo, mo moooo mo moooo mooooo mooooooo moo mooooo

transactions we are about to relate, belonged to the island of
mooooooooooo mo moo moooo mo mooooo, mooooooo mo moo mooooo mo

Nantucket." --"NARRATIVE OF THE GLOBE," BY LAY AND HUSSEY SURVIVORS.
Moooooooo." --"MOOOOOOOO MO MOO MOOOO," MO MOO MOO MOOOOO MOOOOOOOO.

A.D. 1828.
M.M. mooo.




Being once pursued by a whale which he had wounded, he parried the
Moooo mooo moooooo mo m moooo moooo mo moo moooooo, mo moooooo moo

assault for some time with a lance; but the furious monster at length
moooooo moo mooo mooo mooo m moooo; moo moo moooooo moooooo mo mooooo

rushed on the boat; himself and comrades only being preserved by leaping
mooooo mo moo mooo; moooooo moo mooooooo mooo moooo moooooooo mo moooooo

into the water when they saw the onset was inevitable." --MISSIONARY
mooo moo moooo mooo mooo moo moo moooo moo mooooooooo." --MOOOOOOOOO

JOURNAL OF TYERMAN AND BENNETT.
MOOOOOO MO MOOOOOO MOO MOOOOOO.




"Nantucket itself," said Mr. Webster, "is a very striking and peculiar
"Moooooooo mooooo," mooo Mo. Moooooo, "mo m mooo mooooooo moo mooooooo

portion of the National interest. There is a population of eight or nine
moooooo mo moo Mooooooo mooooooo. Moooo mo m mooooooooo mo moooo mo mooo

thousand persons living here in the sea, adding largely every year
mooooooo moooooo mooooo mooo mo moo moo, mooooo moooooo moooo mooo

to the National wealth by the boldest and most persevering industry."
mo moo Mooooooo mooooo mo moo moooooo moo mooo moooooooooo mooooooo."

--REPORT OF DANIEL WEBSTER'S SPEECH IN THE U. S. SENATE, ON THE
--MOOOOO MO MOOOOO MOOOOOO'M MOOOOO MO MOO M. M. MOOOOO, MO MOO

APPLICATION FOR THE ERECTION OF A BREAKWATER AT NANTUCKET. 1828.
MOOOOOOOOOO MOO MOO MOOOOOOO MO M MOOOOOOOOO MO MOOOOOOOO. mooo.




"The whale fell directly over him, and probably killed him in a moment."
"Moo moooo mooo mooooooo mooo moo, moo mooooooo mooooo moo mo m mooooo."

--"THE WHALE AND HIS CAPTORS, OR THE WHALEMAN'S ADVENTURES AND THE
--"MOO MOOOO MOO MOO MOOOOOO, MO MOO MOOOOOOO'M MOOOOOOOOO MOO MOO

WHALE'S BIOGRAPHY, GATHERED ON THE HOMEWARD CRUISE OF THE COMMODORE
MOOOO'M MOOOOOOOO, MOOOOOOO MO MOO MOOOOOOO MOOOOO MO MOO MOOOOOOOO

PREBLE." BY REV. HENRY T. CHEEVER.
MOOOOO." MO MOO. MOOOO M. MOOOOOO.




"If you make the least damn bit of noise," replied Samuel, "I will send
"Mo moo mooo moo moooo mooo moo mo moooo," moooooo Mooooo, "M mooo mooo

you to hell." --LIFE OF SAMUEL COMSTOCK (THE MUTINEER), BY HIS BROTHER,
moo mo mooo." --MOOO MO MOOOOO MOOOOOOO (MOO MOOOOOOO), MO MOO MOOOOOO,

WILLIAM COMSTOCK. ANOTHER VERSION OF THE WHALE-SHIP GLOBE NARRATIVE.
MOOOOOO MOOOOOOO. MOOOOOO MOOOOOO MO MOO MOOOO-MOOO MOOOO MOOOOOOOO.




"The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order,
"Moo moooooo mo moo Moooo moo Moooooo mo moo Mooooooo Moooo, mo moooo,

if possible, to discover a passage through it to India, though they
mo mooooooo, mo mooooooo m moooooo moooooo mo mo Moooo, mooooo mooo

failed of their main object, laid-open the haunts of the whale."
mooooo mo moooo mooo mooooo, mooo-mooo moo mooooo mo moo moooo."

--MCCULLOCH'S COMMERCIAL DICTIONARY.
--MOOOOOOOO'M MOOOOOOOOO MOOOOOOOOO.




"These things are reciprocal; the ball rebounds, only to bound forward
"Moooo mooooo moo mooooooooo; moo mooo mooooooo, mooo mo moooo moooooo

again; for now in laying open the haunts of the whale, the whalemen seem
moooo; moo moo mo mooooo mooo moo mooooo mo moo moooo, moo mooooooo mooo

to have indirectly hit upon new clews to that same mystic North-West
mo mooo mooooooooo moo mooo moo moooo mo mooo mooo mooooo Moooo-Mooo

Passage." --FROM "SOMETHING" UNPUBLISHED.
Moooooo." --MOOO "MOOOOOOOO" MOOOOOOOOOO.




"It is impossible to meet a whale-ship on the ocean without being struck
"Mo mo mooooooooo mo mooo m moooo-mooo mo moo moooo moooooo moooo mooooo

by her near appearance. The vessel under short sail, with look-outs at
mo moo mooo mooooooooo. Moo mooooo moooo moooo mooo, mooo mooo-mooo mo

the mast-heads, eagerly scanning the wide expanse around them, has a
moo mooo-moooo, moooooo mooooooo moo mooo moooooo mooooo mooo, moo m

totally different air from those engaged in regular voyage." --CURRENTS
moooooo moooooooo moo mooo moooo moooooo mo moooooo mooooo." --MOOOOOOO

AND WHALING. U.S. EX. EX.
MOO MOOOOOO. M.M. MO. MO.




"Pedestrians in the vicinity of London and elsewhere may recollect
"Moooooooooo mo moo mooooooo mo Mooooo moo moooooooo moo moooooooo

having seen large curved bones set upright in the earth, either to form
mooooo mooo moooo mooooo moooo moo moooooo mo moo moooo, mooooo mo mooo

arches over gateways, or entrances to alcoves, and they may perhaps
mooooo mooo mooooooo, mo moooooooo mo moooooo, moo mooo moo moooooo

have been told that these were the ribs of whales." --TALES OF A WHALE
mooo mooo mooo mooo moooo mooo moo mooo mo mooooo." --MOOOO MO M MOOOO

VOYAGER TO THE ARCTIC OCEAN.
MOOOOOO MO MOO MOOOOO MOOOO.




"It was not till the boats returned from the pursuit of these whales,
"Mo moo moo mooo moo moooo mooooooo mooo moo moooooo mo moooo mooooo,

that the whites saw their ship in bloody possession of the savages
mooo moo mooooo moo moooo mooo mo mooooo mooooooooo mo moo moooooo

enrolled among the crew." --NEWSPAPER ACCOUNT OF THE TAKING AND RETAKING
mooooooo moooo moo mooo." --MOOOOOOOO MOOOOOO MO MOO MOOOOO MOO MOOOOOOO

OF THE WHALE-SHIP HOBOMACK.
MO MOO MOOOO-MOOO MOOOOOOO.




"It is generally well known that out of the crews of Whaling vessels
"Mo mo moooooooo mooo moooo mooo moo mo moo moooo mo Moooooo moooooo

(American) few ever return in the ships on board of which they
(Mooooooo) moo mooo mooooo mo moo moooo mo moooo mo moooo mooo

departed." --CRUISE IN A WHALE BOAT.
mooooooo." --MOOOOO MO M MOOOO MOOO.




"Suddenly a mighty mass emerged from the water, and shot up
"Mooooooo m mooooo mooo moooooo mooo moo moooo, moo mooo mo

perpendicularly into the air. It was the while." --MIRIAM COFFIN OR THE
moooooooooooooo mooo moo moo. Mo moo moo moooo." --MOOOOO MOOOOO MO MOO

WHALE FISHERMAN.
MOOOO MOOOOOOOO.




"The Whale is harpooned to be sure; but bethink you, how you would
"Moo Moooo mo moooooooo mo mo mooo; moo moooooo moo, moo moo moooo

manage a powerful unbroken colt, with the mere appliance of a rope tied
mooooo m mooooooo mooooooo mooo, mooo moo mooo moooooooo mo m mooo mooo

to the root of his tail." --A CHAPTER ON WHALING IN RIBS AND TRUCKS.
mo moo mooo mo moo mooo." --M MOOOOOO MO MOOOOOO MO MOOO MOO MOOOOO.




"On one occasion I saw two of these monsters (whales) probably male and
"Mo moo mooooooo M moo moo mo moooo mooooooo (mooooo) mooooooo mooo moo

female, slowly swimming, one after the other, within less than a stone's
mooooo, mooooo mooooooo, moo moooo moo moooo, mooooo mooo mooo m moooo'm

throw of the shore" (Terra Del Fuego), "over which the beech tree
moooo mo moo moooo" (Moooo Moo Moooo), "mooo moooo moo moooo mooo

extended its branches." --DARWIN'S VOYAGE OF A NATURALIST.
mooooooo moo mooooooo." --MOOOOO'M MOOOOO MO M MOOOOOOOOO.




"'Stern all!' exclaimed the mate, as upon turning his head, he saw the
"'Moooo moo!' moooooooo moo mooo, mo mooo moooooo moo mooo, mo moo moo

distended jaws of a large Sperm Whale close to the head of the boat,
moooooooo mooo mo m moooo Moooo Moooo moooo mo moo mooo mo moo mooo,

threatening it with instant destruction;--'Stern all, for your lives!'"
moooooooooo mo mooo moooooo moooooooooo;--'Moooo moo, moo mooo moooo!'"

--WHARTON THE WHALE KILLER.
--MOOOOOO MOO MOOOO MOOOOO.




"So be cheery, my lads, let your hearts never fail, While the bold
"Mo mo mooooo, mo mooo, moo mooo mooooo moooo mooo, Moooo moo mooo

harpooneer is striking the whale!" --NANTUCKET SONG.
mooooooooo mo mooooooo moo moooo!" --MOOOOOOOO MOOO.




     "Oh, the rare old Whale, mid storm and gale
     "Mo, moo mooo moo Moooo, moo moooo moo mooo

     In his ocean home will be
     Mo moo moooo mooo mooo mo

     A giant in might, where might is right,
     M moooo mo moooo, moooo moooo mo moooo,

     And King of the boundless sea."
     Moo Mooo mo moo moooooooo moo."

     --WHALE SONG.
     --MOOOO MOOO.













CHAPTER 1. Loomings.
MOOOOOO m. Mooooooo.







Call me Ishmael. Some years ago--never mind how long precisely--having
Mooo mo Moooooo. Mooo moooo moo--moooo mooo moo mooo moooooooo--mooooo

little or no money in my purse, and nothing particular to interest me on
mooooo mo mo moooo mo mo moooo, moo moooooo mooooooooo mo mooooooo mo mo

shore, I thought I would sail about a little and see the watery part of
moooo, M moooooo M moooo mooo moooo m mooooo moo moo moo mooooo mooo mo

the world. It is a way I have of driving off the spleen and regulating
moo moooo. Mo mo m moo M mooo mo moooooo moo moo mooooo moo mooooooooo

the circulation. Whenever I find myself growing grim about the mouth;
moo moooooooooo. Mooooooo M mooo mooooo moooooo mooo moooo moo moooo;

whenever it is a damp, drizzly November in my soul; whenever I find
mooooooo mo mo m mooo, moooooo Mooooooo mo mo mooo; mooooooo M mooo

myself involuntarily pausing before coffin warehouses, and bringing up
mooooo moooooooooooo moooooo mooooo mooooo mooooooooo, moo mooooooo mo

the rear of every funeral I meet; and especially whenever my hypos get
moo mooo mo moooo moooooo M mooo; moo mooooooooo mooooooo mo moooo moo

such an upper hand of me, that it requires a strong moral principle to
mooo mo moooo mooo mo mo, mooo mo mooooooo m mooooo moooo moooooooo mo

prevent me from deliberately stepping into the street, and methodically
moooooo mo mooo mooooooooooo mooooooo mooo moo mooooo, moo mooooooooooo

knocking people's hats off--then, I account it high time to get to sea
mooooooo mooooo'm mooo moo--mooo, M moooooo mo mooo mooo mo moo mo moo

as soon as I can. This is my substitute for pistol and ball. With a
mo mooo mo M moo. Mooo mo mo mooooooooo moo mooooo moo mooo. Mooo m

philosophical flourish Cato throws himself upon his sword; I quietly
moooooooooooo mooooooo Mooo mooooo moooooo mooo moo moooo; M moooooo

take to the ship. There is nothing surprising in this. If they but knew
mooo mo moo mooo. Moooo mo moooooo mooooooooo mo mooo. Mo mooo moo mooo

it, almost all men in their degree, some time or other, cherish very
mo, mooooo moo moo mo moooo mooooo, mooo mooo mo moooo, moooooo mooo

nearly the same feelings towards the ocean with me.
mooooo moo mooo mooooooo moooooo moo moooo mooo mo.




There now is your insular city of the Manhattoes, belted round by
Moooo moo mo mooo moooooo mooo mo moo Mooooooooo, mooooo moooo mo

wharves as Indian isles by coral reefs--commerce surrounds it with
moooooo mo Mooooo moooo mo moooo moooo--mooooooo moooooooo mo mooo

her surf. Right and left, the streets take you waterward. Its extreme
moo mooo. Moooo moo mooo, moo moooooo mooo moo moooooooo. Moo moooooo

downtown is the battery, where that noble mole is washed by waves, and
mooooooo mo moo moooooo, moooo mooo moooo mooo mo mooooo mo moooo, moo

cooled by breezes, which a few hours previous were out of sight of land.
mooooo mo moooooo, moooo m moo moooo mooooooo mooo moo mo moooo mo mooo.

Look at the crowds of water-gazers there.
Mooo mo moo mooooo mo moooo-mooooo moooo.




Circumambulate the city of a dreamy Sabbath afternoon. Go from Corlears
Mooooooooooooo moo mooo mo m mooooo Moooooo moooooooo. Mo mooo Mooooooo

Hook to Coenties Slip, and from thence, by Whitehall, northward. What
Mooo mo Mooooooo Mooo, moo mooo mooooo, mo Moooooooo, moooooooo. Mooo

do you see?--Posted like silent sentinels all around the town, stand
mo moo moo?--Mooooo mooo mooooo moooooooo moo mooooo moo mooo, moooo

thousands upon thousands of mortal men fixed in ocean reveries. Some
moooooooo mooo moooooooo mo mooooo moo moooo mo moooo mooooooo. Mooo

leaning against the spiles; some seated upon the pier-heads; some
moooooo moooooo moo mooooo; mooo mooooo mooo moo mooo-moooo; mooo

looking over the bulwarks of ships from China; some high aloft in the
moooooo mooo moo mooooooo mo moooo mooo Moooo; mooo mooo moooo mo moo

rigging, as if striving to get a still better seaward peep. But these
moooooo, mo mo mooooooo mo moo m moooo mooooo moooooo mooo. Moo moooo

are all landsmen; of week days pent up in lath and plaster--tied to
moo moo mooooooo; mo mooo mooo mooo mo mo mooo moo moooooo--mooo mo

counters, nailed to benches, clinched to desks. How then is this? Are
mooooooo, mooooo mo moooooo, mooooooo mo moooo. Moo mooo mo mooo? Moo

the green fields gone? What do they here?
moo moooo mooooo mooo? Mooo mo mooo mooo?




But look! here come more crowds, pacing straight for the water, and
Moo mooo! mooo mooo mooo mooooo, mooooo mooooooo moo moo moooo, moo

seemingly bound for a dive. Strange! Nothing will content them but the
moooooooo moooo moo m mooo. Moooooo! Moooooo mooo moooooo mooo moo moo

extremest limit of the land; loitering under the shady lee of yonder
moooooooo moooo mo moo mooo; moooooooo moooo moo moooo moo mo mooooo

warehouses will not suffice. No. They must get just as nigh the water
mooooooooo mooo moo moooooo. Mo. Mooo mooo moo mooo mo mooo moo moooo

as they possibly can without falling in. And there they stand--miles of
mo mooo mooooooo moo moooooo moooooo mo. Moo moooo mooo moooo--moooo mo

them--leagues. Inlanders all, they come from lanes and alleys, streets
mooo--moooooo. Moooooooo moo, mooo mooo mooo moooo moo mooooo, moooooo

and avenues--north, east, south, and west. Yet here they all unite.
moo moooooo--moooo, mooo, moooo, moo mooo. Moo mooo mooo moo moooo.

Tell me, does the magnetic virtue of the needles of the compasses of all
Mooo mo, mooo moo mooooooo mooooo mo moo moooooo mo moo moooooooo mo moo

those ships attract them thither?
moooo moooo moooooo mooo moooooo?




Once more. Say you are in the country; in some high land of lakes. Take
Mooo mooo. Moo moo moo mo moo moooooo; mo mooo mooo mooo mo moooo. Mooo

almost any path you please, and ten to one it carries you down in a
mooooo moo mooo moo mooooo, moo moo mo moo mo moooooo moo mooo mo m

dale, and leaves you there by a pool in the stream. There is magic
mooo, moo mooooo moo moooo mo m mooo mo moo mooooo. Moooo mo moooo

in it. Let the most absent-minded of men be plunged in his deepest
mo mo. Moo moo mooo mooooo-mooooo mo moo mo moooooo mo moo moooooo

reveries--stand that man on his legs, set his feet a-going, and he will
mooooooo--moooo mooo moo mo moo mooo, moo moo mooo m-moooo, moo mo mooo

infallibly lead you to water, if water there be in all that region.
mooooooooo mooo moo mo moooo, mo moooo moooo mo mo moo mooo mooooo.

Should you ever be athirst in the great American desert, try this
Mooooo moo mooo mo moooooo mo moo moooo Mooooooo mooooo, moo mooo

experiment, if your caravan happen to be supplied with a metaphysical
mooooooooo, mo mooo moooooo mooooo mo mo mooooooo mooo m mooooooooooo

professor. Yes, as every one knows, meditation and water are wedded for
moooooooo. Moo, mo moooo moo moooo, mooooooooo moo moooo moo mooooo moo

ever.
mooo.




But here is an artist. He desires to paint you the dreamiest, shadiest,
Moo mooo mo mo mooooo. Mo moooooo mo moooo moo moo moooooooo, mooooooo,

quietest, most enchanting bit of romantic landscape in all the valley of
mooooooo, mooo mooooooooo moo mo mooooooo moooooooo mo moo moo mooooo mo

the Saco. What is the chief element he employs? There stand his trees,
moo Mooo. Mooo mo moo moooo moooooo mo moooooo? Moooo moooo moo moooo,

each with a hollow trunk, as if a hermit and a crucifix were within; and
mooo mooo m mooooo moooo, mo mo m mooooo moo m mooooooo mooo mooooo; moo

here sleeps his meadow, and there sleep his cattle; and up from yonder
mooo mooooo moo mooooo, moo moooo moooo moo mooooo; moo mo mooo mooooo

cottage goes a sleepy smoke. Deep into distant woodlands winds a
moooooo mooo m mooooo moooo. Mooo mooo moooooo moooooooo moooo m

mazy way, reaching to overlapping spurs of mountains bathed in their
mooo moo, mooooooo mo moooooooooo moooo mo moooooooo mooooo mo moooo

hill-side blue. But though the picture lies thus tranced, and though
mooo-mooo mooo. Moo mooooo moo moooooo mooo mooo moooooo, moo mooooo

this pine-tree shakes down its sighs like leaves upon this shepherd's
mooo mooo-mooo mooooo mooo moo moooo mooo mooooo mooo mooo mooooooo'm

head, yet all were vain, unless the shepherd's eye were fixed upon the
mooo, moo moo mooo mooo, mooooo moo mooooooo'm moo mooo moooo mooo moo

magic stream before him. Go visit the Prairies in June, when for scores
moooo mooooo mooooo moo. Mo moooo moo Mooooooo mo Mooo, mooo moo mooooo

on scores of miles you wade knee-deep among Tiger-lilies--what is the
mo mooooo mo moooo moo mooo mooo-mooo moooo Moooo-mooooo--mooo mo moo

one charm wanting?--Water--there is not a drop of water there! Were
moo moooo moooooo?--Moooo--moooo mo moo m mooo mo moooo moooo! Mooo

Niagara but a cataract of sand, would you travel your thousand miles to
Moooooo moo m mooooooo mo mooo, moooo moo mooooo mooo mooooooo moooo mo

see it? Why did the poor poet of Tennessee, upon suddenly receiving two
moo mo? Moo moo moo mooo mooo mo Moooooooo, mooo mooooooo moooooooo moo

handfuls of silver, deliberate whether to buy him a coat, which he sadly
mooooooo mo mooooo, mooooooooo moooooo mo moo moo m mooo, moooo mo moooo

needed, or invest his money in a pedestrian trip to Rockaway Beach? Why
mooooo, mo mooooo moo moooo mo m mooooooooo mooo mo Mooooooo Moooo? Moo

is almost every robust healthy boy with a robust healthy soul in him, at
mo mooooo moooo mooooo moooooo moo mooo m mooooo moooooo mooo mo moo, mo

some time or other crazy to go to sea? Why upon your first voyage as a
mooo mooo mo moooo moooo mo mo mo moo? Moo mooo mooo moooo mooooo mo m

passenger, did you yourself feel such a mystical vibration, when first
moooooooo, moo moo mooooooo mooo mooo m mooooooo moooooooo, mooo moooo

told that you and your ship were now out of sight of land? Why did the
mooo mooo moo moo mooo mooo mooo moo moo mo moooo mo mooo? Moo moo moo

old Persians hold the sea holy? Why did the Greeks give it a separate
moo Mooooooo mooo moo moo mooo? Moo moo moo Mooooo mooo mo m mooooooo

deity, and own brother of Jove? Surely all this is not without meaning.
moooo, moo moo moooooo mo Mooo? Mooooo moo mooo mo moo moooooo moooooo.

And still deeper the meaning of that story of Narcissus, who because
Moo moooo mooooo moo moooooo mo mooo moooo mo Moooooooo, moo moooooo

he could not grasp the tormenting, mild image he saw in the fountain,
mo moooo moo moooo moo mooooooooo, mooo moooo mo moo mo moo mooooooo,

plunged into it and was drowned. But that same image, we ourselves see
moooooo mooo mo moo moo moooooo. Moo mooo mooo moooo, mo moooooooo moo

in all rivers and oceans. It is the image of the ungraspable phantom of
mo moo mooooo moo mooooo. Mo mo moo moooo mo moo moooooooooo moooooo mo

life; and this is the key to it all.
mooo; moo mooo mo moo moo mo mo moo.




Now, when I say that I am in the habit of going to sea whenever I begin
Moo, mooo M moo mooo M mo mo moo moooo mo moooo mo moo mooooooo M moooo

to grow hazy about the eyes, and begin to be over conscious of my lungs,
mo mooo mooo moooo moo mooo, moo moooo mo mo mooo moooooooo mo mo moooo,

I do not mean to have it inferred that I ever go to sea as a passenger.
M mo moo mooo mo mooo mo mooooooo mooo M mooo mo mo moo mo m moooooooo.

For to go as a passenger you must needs have a purse, and a purse is
Moo mo mo mo m moooooooo moo mooo moooo mooo m moooo, moo m moooo mo

but a rag unless you have something in it. Besides, passengers get
moo m moo mooooo moo mooo moooooooo mo mo. Moooooo, mooooooooo moo

sea-sick--grow quarrelsome--don't sleep of nights--do not enjoy
moo-mooo--mooo moooooooooo--moo'm moooo mo mooooo--mo moo moooo

themselves much, as a general thing;--no, I never go as a passenger;
mooooooooo mooo, mo m moooooo moooo;--mo, M moooo mo mo m moooooooo;

nor, though I am something of a salt, do I ever go to sea as a
moo, mooooo M mo moooooooo mo m mooo, mo M mooo mo mo moo mo m

Commodore, or a Captain, or a Cook. I abandon the glory and distinction
Moooooooo, mo m Moooooo, mo m Mooo. M moooooo moo moooo moo moooooooooo

of such offices to those who like them. For my part, I abominate all
mo mooo moooooo mo moooo moo mooo mooo. Moo mo mooo, M moooooooo moo

honourable respectable toils, trials, and tribulations of every kind
mooooooooo moooooooooo moooo, mooooo, moo mooooooooooo mo moooo mooo

whatsoever. It is quite as much as I can do to take care of myself,
mooooooooo. Mo mo moooo mo mooo mo M moo mo mo mooo mooo mo mooooo,

without taking care of ships, barques, brigs, schooners, and what not.
moooooo mooooo mooo mo moooo, moooooo, moooo, moooooooo, moo mooo moo.

And as for going as cook,--though I confess there is considerable glory
Moo mo moo moooo mo mooo,--mooooo M moooooo moooo mo mooooooooooo moooo

in that, a cook being a sort of officer on ship-board--yet, somehow,
mo mooo, m mooo moooo m mooo mo moooooo mo mooo-moooo--moo, moooooo,

I never fancied broiling fowls;--though once broiled, judiciously
M moooo moooooo mooooooo moooo;--mooooo mooo moooooo, moooooooooo

buttered, and judgmatically salted and peppered, there is no one who
mooooooo, moo moooooooooooo mooooo moo mooooooo, moooo mo mo moo moo

will speak more respectfully, not to say reverentially, of a broiled
mooo moooo mooo mooooooooooo, moo mo moo moooooooooooo, mo m moooooo

fowl than I will. It is out of the idolatrous dotings of the old
mooo mooo M mooo. Mo mo moo mo moo mooooooooo moooooo mo moo moo

Egyptians upon broiled ibis and roasted river horse, that you see the
Moooooooo mooo moooooo mooo moo moooooo moooo moooo, mooo moo moo moo

mummies of those creatures in their huge bake-houses the pyramids.
moooooo mo moooo moooooooo mo moooo mooo mooo-mooooo moo mooooooo.




No, when I go to sea, I go as a simple sailor, right before the mast,
Mo, mooo M mo mo moo, M mo mo m mooooo mooooo, moooo mooooo moo mooo,

plumb down into the forecastle, aloft there to the royal mast-head.
moooo mooo mooo moo mooooooooo, moooo moooo mo moo moooo mooo-mooo.

True, they rather order me about some, and make me jump from spar to
Mooo, mooo mooooo moooo mo moooo mooo, moo mooo mo mooo mooo mooo mo

spar, like a grasshopper in a May meadow. And at first, this sort
mooo, mooo m moooooooooo mo m Moo mooooo. Moo mo moooo, mooo mooo

of thing is unpleasant enough. It touches one's sense of honour,
mo moooo mo mooooooooo mooooo. Mo moooooo moo'm moooo mo mooooo,

particularly if you come of an old established family in the land, the
mooooooooooo mo moo mooo mo mo moo moooooooooo mooooo mo moo mooo, moo

Van Rensselaers, or Randolphs, or Hardicanutes. And more than all,
Moo Moooooooooo, mo Moooooooo, mo Mooooooooooo. Moo mooo mooo moo,

if just previous to putting your hand into the tar-pot, you have been
mo mooo mooooooo mo moooooo mooo mooo mooo moo moo-moo, moo mooo mooo

lording it as a country schoolmaster, making the tallest boys stand
moooooo mo mo m moooooo mooooooooooo, mooooo moo moooooo mooo moooo

in awe of you. The transition is a keen one, I assure you, from a
mo moo mo moo. Moo mooooooooo mo m mooo moo, M mooooo moo, mooo m

schoolmaster to a sailor, and requires a strong decoction of Seneca and
mooooooooooo mo m mooooo, moo mooooooo m mooooo moooooooo mo Mooooo moo

the Stoics to enable you to grin and bear it. But even this wears off in
moo Mooooo mo mooooo moo mo mooo moo mooo mo. Moo mooo mooo moooo moo mo

time.
mooo.




What of it, if some old hunks of a sea-captain orders me to get a broom
Mooo mo mo, mo mooo moo moooo mo m moo-moooooo mooooo mo mo moo m moooo

and sweep down the decks? What does that indignity amount to, weighed,
moo moooo mooo moo moooo? Mooo mooo mooo moooooooo mooooo mo, moooooo,

I mean, in the scales of the New Testament? Do you think the archangel
M mooo, mo moo mooooo mo moo Moo Moooooooo? Mo moo moooo moo moooooooo

Gabriel thinks anything the less of me, because I promptly and
Moooooo mooooo mooooooo moo mooo mo mo, moooooo M mooooooo moo

respectfully obey that old hunks in that particular instance? Who ain't
mooooooooooo mooo mooo moo moooo mo mooo mooooooooo mooooooo? Moo moo'm

a slave? Tell me that. Well, then, however the old sea-captains may
m moooo? Mooo mo mooo. Mooo, mooo, moooooo moo moo moo-mooooooo moo

order me about--however they may thump and punch me about, I have the
moooo mo moooo--moooooo mooo moo moooo moo moooo mo moooo, M mooo moo

satisfaction of knowing that it is all right; that everybody else is
mooooooooooo mo moooooo mooo mo mo moo moooo; mooo moooooooo mooo mo

one way or other served in much the same way--either in a physical
moo moo mo moooo mooooo mo mooo moo mooo moo--mooooo mo m mooooooo

or metaphysical point of view, that is; and so the universal thump is
mo mooooooooooo moooo mo mooo, mooo mo; moo mo moo moooooooo moooo mo

passed round, and all hands should rub each other's shoulder-blades, and
mooooo moooo, moo moo moooo mooooo moo mooo moooo'm mooooooo-mooooo, moo

be content.
mo moooooo.




Again, I always go to sea as a sailor, because they make a point of
Moooo, M mooooo mo mo moo mo m mooooo, moooooo mooo mooo m moooo mo

paying me for my trouble, whereas they never pay passengers a single
mooooo mo moo mo moooooo, moooooo mooo moooo moo mooooooooo m mooooo

penny that I ever heard of. On the contrary, passengers themselves must
moooo mooo M mooo moooo mo. Mo moo mooooooo, mooooooooo mooooooooo mooo

pay. And there is all the difference in the world between paying
moo. Moo moooo mo moo moo mooooooooo mo moo moooo moooooo mooooo

and being paid. The act of paying is perhaps the most uncomfortable
moo moooo mooo. Moo moo mo mooooo mo moooooo moo mooo moooooooooooo

infliction that the two orchard thieves entailed upon us. But BEING
mooooooooo mooo moo moo moooooo moooooo mooooooo mooo mo. Moo MOOOO

PAID,--what will compare with it? The urbane activity with which a man
MOOO,--mooo mooo moooooo mooo mo? Moo mooooo mooooooo mooo moooo m moo

receives money is really marvellous, considering that we so earnestly
mooooooo moooo mo mooooo mooooooooo, moooooooooo mooo mo mo moooooooo

believe money to be the root of all earthly ills, and that on no account
moooooo moooo mo mo moo mooo mo moo moooooo mooo, moo mooo mo mo moooooo

can a monied man enter heaven. Ah! how cheerfully we consign ourselves
moo m mooooo moo moooo mooooo. Mo! moo mooooooooo mo moooooo moooooooo

to perdition!
mo moooooooo!




Finally, I always go to sea as a sailor, because of the wholesome
Moooooo, M mooooo mo mo moo mo m mooooo, moooooo mo moo moooooooo

exercise and pure air of the fore-castle deck. For as in this world,
mooooooo moo mooo moo mo moo mooo-mooooo mooo. Moo mo mo mooo moooo,

head winds are far more prevalent than winds from astern (that is,
mooo moooo moo moo mooo moooooooo mooo moooo mooo mooooo (mooo mo,

if you never violate the Pythagorean maxim), so for the most part the
mo moo moooo moooooo moo Moooooooooo moooo), mo moo moo mooo mooo moo

Commodore on the quarter-deck gets his atmosphere at second hand from
Moooooooo mo moo moooooo-mooo mooo moo mooooooooo mo mooooo mooo mooo

the sailors on the forecastle. He thinks he breathes it first; but not
moo moooooo mo moo mooooooooo. Mo mooooo mo mooooooo mo moooo; moo moo

so. In much the same way do the commonalty lead their leaders in many
mo. Mo mooo moo mooo moo mo moo mooooooooo mooo moooo moooooo mo mooo

other things, at the same time that the leaders little suspect it.
moooo mooooo, mo moo mooo mooo mooo moo moooooo mooooo moooooo mo.

But wherefore it was that after having repeatedly smelt the sea as a
Moo moooooooo mo moo mooo moooo mooooo mooooooooo moooo moo moo mo m

merchant sailor, I should now take it into my head to go on a whaling
mooooooo mooooo, M mooooo moo mooo mo mooo mo mooo mo mo mo m moooooo

voyage; this the invisible police officer of the Fates, who has the
mooooo; mooo moo moooooooo mooooo moooooo mo moo Moooo, moo moo moo

constant surveillance of me, and secretly dogs me, and influences me
mooooooo mooooooooooo mo mo, moo mooooooo mooo mo, moo mooooooooo mo

in some unaccountable way--he can better answer than any one else. And,
mo mooo moooooooooooo moo--mo moo mooooo mooooo mooo moo moo mooo. Moo,

doubtless, my going on this whaling voyage, formed part of the grand
moooooooo, mo moooo mo mooo moooooo mooooo, mooooo mooo mo moo moooo

programme of Providence that was drawn up a long time ago. It came in as
moooooooo mo Mooooooooo mooo moo moooo mo m mooo mooo moo. Mo mooo mo mo

a sort of brief interlude and solo between more extensive performances.
m mooo mo moooo moooooooo moo mooo moooooo mooo moooooooo mooooooooooo.

I take it that this part of the bill must have run something like this:
M mooo mo mooo mooo mooo mo moo mooo mooo mooo moo moooooooo mooo mooo:







"GRAND CONTESTED ELECTION FOR THE PRESIDENCY OF THE UNITED STATES.
"MOOOO MOOOOOOOO MOOOOOOO MOO MOO MOOOOOOOOO MO MOO MOOOOO MOOOOO.




"WHALING VOYAGE BY ONE ISHMAEL.
"MOOOOOO MOOOOO MO MOO MOOOOOO.




"BLOODY BATTLE IN AFFGHANISTAN."
"MOOOOO MOOOOO MO MOOOOOOOOOOO."







Though I cannot tell why it was exactly that those stage managers, the
Mooooo M mooooo mooo moo mo moo moooooo mooo moooo moooo mooooooo, moo

Fates, put me down for this shabby part of a whaling voyage, when others
Moooo, moo mo mooo moo mooo mooooo mooo mo m moooooo mooooo, mooo mooooo

were set down for magnificent parts in high tragedies, and short and
mooo moo mooo moo moooooooooo moooo mo mooo moooooooo, moo moooo moo

easy parts in genteel comedies, and jolly parts in farces--though
mooo moooo mo moooooo mooooooo, moo moooo moooo mo mooooo--mooooo

I cannot tell why this was exactly; yet, now that I recall all the
M mooooo mooo moo mooo moo moooooo; moo, moo mooo M mooooo moo moo

circumstances, I think I can see a little into the springs and motives
moooooooooooo, M moooo M moo moo m mooooo mooo moo moooooo moo moooooo

which being cunningly presented to me under various disguises, induced
moooo moooo moooooooo moooooooo mo mo moooo moooooo moooooooo, moooooo

me to set about performing the part I did, besides cajoling me into the
mo mo moo moooo mooooooooo moo mooo M moo, moooooo mooooooo mo mooo moo

delusion that it was a choice resulting from my own unbiased freewill
mooooooo mooo mo moo m mooooo moooooooo mooo mo moo mooooooo mooooooo

and discriminating judgment.
moo mooooooooooooo mooooooo.




Chief among these motives was the overwhelming idea of the great
Moooo moooo moooo moooooo moo moo mooooooooooo mooo mo moo moooo

whale himself. Such a portentous and mysterious monster roused all my
moooo moooooo. Mooo m mooooooooo moo mooooooooo moooooo mooooo moo mo

curiosity. Then the wild and distant seas where he rolled his island
moooooooo. Mooo moo mooo moo moooooo mooo moooo mo mooooo moo mooooo

bulk; the undeliverable, nameless perils of the whale; these, with all
mooo; moo moooooooooooo, mooooooo mooooo mo moo moooo; moooo, mooo moo

the attending marvels of a thousand Patagonian sights and sounds, helped
moo moooooooo moooooo mo m mooooooo Mooooooooo mooooo moo mooooo, mooooo

to sway me to my wish. With other men, perhaps, such things would not
mo mooo mo mo mo mooo. Mooo moooo moo, moooooo, mooo mooooo moooo moo

have been inducements; but as for me, I am tormented with an everlasting
mooo mooo moooooooooo; moo mo moo mo, M mo moooooooo mooo mo moooooooooo

itch for things remote. I love to sail forbidden seas, and land on
mooo moo mooooo mooooo. M mooo mo mooo moooooooo mooo, moo mooo mo

barbarous coasts. Not ignoring what is good, I am quick to perceive a
moooooooo mooooo. Moo mooooooo mooo mo mooo, M mo moooo mo mooooooo m

horror, and could still be social with it--would they let me--since it
mooooo, moo moooo moooo mo mooooo mooo mo--moooo mooo moo mo--moooo mo

is but well to be on friendly terms with all the inmates of the place
mo moo mooo mo mo mo mooooooo moooo mooo moo moo moooooo mo moo moooo

one lodges in.
moo mooooo mo.




By reason of these things, then, the whaling voyage was welcome; the
Mo mooooo mo moooo mooooo, mooo, moo moooooo mooooo moo moooooo; moo

great flood-gates of the wonder-world swung open, and in the wild
moooo moooo-moooo mo moo mooooo-moooo moooo mooo, moo mo moo mooo

conceits that swayed me to my purpose, two and two there floated into
mooooooo mooo mooooo mo mo mo moooooo, moo moo moo moooo moooooo mooo

my inmost soul, endless processions of the whale, and, mid most of them
mo mooooo mooo, moooooo moooooooooo mo moo moooo, moo, moo mooo mo mooo

all, one grand hooded phantom, like a snow hill in the air.
moo, moo moooo mooooo moooooo, mooo m mooo mooo mo moo moo.










CHAPTER 2. The Carpet-Bag.
MOOOOOO m. Moo Mooooo-Moo.







I stuffed a shirt or two into my old carpet-bag, tucked it under my arm,
M moooooo m moooo mo moo mooo mo moo mooooo-moo, mooooo mo moooo mo moo,

and started for Cape Horn and the Pacific. Quitting the good city of
moo moooooo moo Mooo Mooo moo moo Moooooo. Mooooooo moo mooo mooo mo

old Manhatto, I duly arrived in New Bedford. It was a Saturday night in
moo Mooooooo, M mooo moooooo mo Moo Moooooo. Mo moo m Mooooooo moooo mo

December. Much was I disappointed upon learning that the little packet
Mooooooo. Mooo moo M mooooooooooo mooo mooooooo mooo moo mooooo mooooo

for Nantucket had already sailed, and that no way of reaching that place
moo Moooooooo moo moooooo mooooo, moo mooo mo moo mo mooooooo mooo moooo

would offer, till the following Monday.
moooo moooo, mooo moo moooooooo Mooooo.




As most young candidates for the pains and penalties of whaling stop at
Mo mooo moooo mooooooooo moo moo moooo moo moooooooo mo moooooo mooo mo

this same New Bedford, thence to embark on their voyage, it may as well
mooo mooo Moo Moooooo, mooooo mo mooooo mo moooo mooooo, mo moo mo mooo

be related that I, for one, had no idea of so doing. For my mind was
mo moooooo mooo M, moo moo, moo mo mooo mo mo moooo. Moo mo mooo moo

made up to sail in no other than a Nantucket craft, because there was a
mooo mo mo mooo mo mo moooo mooo m Moooooooo moooo, moooooo moooo moo m

fine, boisterous something about everything connected with that famous
mooo, mooooooooo moooooooo moooo mooooooooo moooooooo mooo mooo mooooo

old island, which amazingly pleased me. Besides though New Bedford has
moo mooooo, moooo moooooooo moooooo mo. Moooooo mooooo Moo Moooooo moo

of late been gradually monopolising the business of whaling, and though
mo mooo mooo moooooooo mooooooooooo moo mooooooo mo moooooo, moo mooooo

in this matter poor old Nantucket is now much behind her, yet Nantucket
mo mooo mooooo mooo moo Moooooooo mo moo mooo mooooo moo, moo Moooooooo

was her great original--the Tyre of this Carthage;--the place where the
moo moo moooo mooooooo--moo Mooo mo mooo Mooooooo;--moo moooo moooo moo

first dead American whale was stranded. Where else but from Nantucket
moooo mooo Mooooooo moooo moo mooooooo. Moooo mooo moo mooo Moooooooo

did those aboriginal whalemen, the Red-Men, first sally out in canoes to
moo moooo mooooooooo mooooooo, moo Moo-Moo, moooo moooo moo mo mooooo mo

give chase to the Leviathan? And where but from Nantucket, too, did that
mooo moooo mo moo Moooooooo? Moo moooo moo mooo Moooooooo, moo, moo mooo

first adventurous little sloop put forth, partly laden with imported
moooo moooooooooo mooooo moooo moo moooo, mooooo moooo mooo mooooooo

cobblestones--so goes the story--to throw at the whales, in order to
mooooooooooo--mo mooo moo moooo--mo moooo mo moo mooooo, mo moooo mo

discover when they were nigh enough to risk a harpoon from the bowsprit?
mooooooo mooo mooo mooo mooo mooooo mo mooo m moooooo mooo moo mooooooo?




Now having a night, a day, and still another night following before me
Moo mooooo m moooo, m moo, moo moooo moooooo moooo moooooooo mooooo mo

in New Bedford, ere I could embark for my destined port, it became a
mo Moo Moooooo, moo M moooo mooooo moo mo mooooooo mooo, mo mooooo m

matter of concernment where I was to eat and sleep meanwhile. It was a
mooooo mo moooooooooo moooo M moo mo moo moo moooo moooooooo. Mo moo m

very dubious-looking, nay, a very dark and dismal night, bitingly cold
mooo moooooo-moooooo, moo, m mooo mooo moo mooooo moooo, mooooooo mooo

and cheerless. I knew no one in the place. With anxious grapnels I had
moo moooooooo. M mooo mo moo mo moo moooo. Mooo moooooo mooooooo M moo

sounded my pocket, and only brought up a few pieces of silver,--So,
moooooo mo mooooo, moo mooo moooooo mo m moo mooooo mo mooooo,--Mo,

wherever you go, Ishmael, said I to myself, as I stood in the middle of
mooooooo moo mo, Moooooo, mooo M mo mooooo, mo M moooo mo moo mooooo mo

a dreary street shouldering my bag, and comparing the gloom towards the
m mooooo mooooo moooooooooo mo moo, moo moooooooo moo moooo moooooo moo

north with the darkness towards the south--wherever in your wisdom you
moooo mooo moo mooooooo moooooo moo moooo--mooooooo mo mooo mooooo moo

may conclude to lodge for the night, my dear Ishmael, be sure to inquire
moo mooooooo mo moooo moo moo moooo, mo mooo Moooooo, mo mooo mo moooooo

the price, and don't be too particular.
moo moooo, moo moo'm mo moo mooooooooo.




With halting steps I paced the streets, and passed the sign of "The
Mooo moooooo moooo M moooo moo moooooo, moo mooooo moo mooo mo "Moo

Crossed Harpoons"--but it looked too expensive and jolly there. Further
Moooooo Mooooooo"--moo mo mooooo moo moooooooo moo moooo moooo. Moooooo

on, from the bright red windows of the "Sword-Fish Inn," there came such
mo, mooo moo mooooo moo moooooo mo moo "Moooo-Mooo Moo," moooo mooo mooo

fervent rays, that it seemed to have melted the packed snow and ice from
moooooo mooo, mooo mo mooooo mo mooo mooooo moo mooooo mooo moo moo mooo

before the house, for everywhere else the congealed frost lay ten inches
mooooo moo moooo, moo mooooooooo mooo moo moooooooo moooo moo moo mooooo

thick in a hard, asphaltic pavement,--rather weary for me, when I struck
moooo mo m mooo, moooooooo mooooooo,--mooooo moooo moo mo, mooo M mooooo

my foot against the flinty projections, because from hard, remorseless
mo mooo moooooo moo mooooo moooooooooo, moooooo mooo mooo, moooooooooo

service the soles of my boots were in a most miserable plight. Too
moooooo moo moooo mo mo moooo mooo mo m mooo moooooooo mooooo. Moo

expensive and jolly, again thought I, pausing one moment to watch the
moooooooo moo moooo, moooo moooooo M, moooooo moo mooooo mo moooo moo

broad glare in the street, and hear the sounds of the tinkling glasses
moooo moooo mo moo mooooo, moo mooo moo mooooo mo moo mooooooo moooooo

within. But go on, Ishmael, said I at last; don't you hear? get away
mooooo. Moo mo mo, Moooooo, mooo M mo mooo; moo'm moo mooo? moo mooo

from before the door; your patched boots are stopping the way. So on I
mooo mooooo moo mooo; mooo moooooo moooo moo mooooooo moo moo. Mo mo M

went. I now by instinct followed the streets that took me waterward, for
mooo. M moo mo mooooooo mooooooo moo moooooo mooo mooo mo moooooooo, moo

there, doubtless, were the cheapest, if not the cheeriest inns.
moooo, moooooooo, mooo moo mooooooo, mo moo moo moooooooo mooo.




Such dreary streets! blocks of blackness, not houses, on either hand,
Mooo mooooo moooooo! mooooo mo moooooooo, moo mooooo, mo mooooo mooo,

and here and there a candle, like a candle moving about in a tomb. At
moo mooo moo moooo m mooooo, mooo m mooooo mooooo moooo mo m mooo. Mo

this hour of the night, of the last day of the week, that quarter of
mooo mooo mo moo moooo, mo moo mooo moo mo moo mooo, mooo moooooo mo

the town proved all but deserted. But presently I came to a smoky light
moo mooo mooooo moo moo mooooooo. Moo moooooooo M mooo mo m moooo moooo

proceeding from a low, wide building, the door of which stood invitingly
mooooooooo mooo m moo, mooo mooooooo, moo mooo mo moooo moooo mooooooooo

open. It had a careless look, as if it were meant for the uses of the
mooo. Mo moo m mooooooo mooo, mo mo mo mooo moooo moo moo mooo mo moo

public; so, entering, the first thing I did was to stumble over an
mooooo; mo, mooooooo, moo moooo moooo M moo moo mo moooooo mooo mo

ash-box in the porch. Ha! thought I, ha, as the flying particles almost
moo-moo mo moo moooo. Mo! moooooo M, mo, mo moo mooooo moooooooo mooooo

choked me, are these ashes from that destroyed city, Gomorrah? But "The
mooooo mo, moo moooo moooo mooo mooo moooooooo mooo, Mooooooo? Moo "Moo

Crossed Harpoons," and "The Sword-Fish?"--this, then must needs be the
Moooooo Mooooooo," moo "Moo Moooo-Mooo?"--mooo, mooo mooo moooo mo moo

sign of "The Trap." However, I picked myself up and hearing a loud voice
mooo mo "Moo Mooo." Moooooo, M mooooo mooooo mo moo moooooo m mooo moooo

within, pushed on and opened a second, interior door.
mooooo, mooooo mo moo mooooo m mooooo, mooooooo mooo.




It seemed the great Black Parliament sitting in Tophet. A hundred black
Mo mooooo moo moooo Moooo Mooooooooo moooooo mo Mooooo. M moooooo moooo

faces turned round in their rows to peer; and beyond, a black Angel
moooo mooooo moooo mo moooo mooo mo mooo; moo mooooo, m moooo Moooo

of Doom was beating a book in a pulpit. It was a negro church; and the
mo Mooo moo moooooo m mooo mo m mooooo. Mo moo m moooo mooooo; moo moo

preacher's text was about the blackness of darkness, and the weeping and
mooooooo'm mooo moo moooo moo moooooooo mo mooooooo, moo moo moooooo moo

wailing and teeth-gnashing there. Ha, Ishmael, muttered I, backing out,
moooooo moo moooo-mooooooo moooo. Mo, Moooooo, mooooooo M, moooooo moo,

Wretched entertainment at the sign of 'The Trap!'
Mooooooo moooooooooooo mo moo mooo mo 'Moo Mooo!'




Moving on, I at last came to a dim sort of light not far from the docks,
Mooooo mo, M mo mooo mooo mo m moo mooo mo moooo moo moo mooo moo moooo,

and heard a forlorn creaking in the air; and looking up, saw a swinging
moo moooo m moooooo mooooooo mo moo moo; moo moooooo mo, moo m mooooooo

sign over the door with a white painting upon it, faintly representing
mooo mooo moo mooo mooo m moooo mooooooo mooo mo, moooooo mooooooooooo

a tall straight jet of misty spray, and these words underneath--"The
m mooo mooooooo moo mo moooo moooo, moo moooo moooo mooooooooo--"Moo

Spouter Inn:--Peter Coffin."
Moooooo Moo:--Moooo Mooooo."




Coffin?--Spouter?--Rather ominous in that particular connexion, thought
Mooooo?--Moooooo?--Mooooo moooooo mo mooo mooooooooo moooooooo, moooooo

I. But it is a common name in Nantucket, they say, and I suppose this
M. Moo mo mo m mooooo mooo mo Moooooooo, mooo moo, moo M moooooo mooo

Peter here is an emigrant from there. As the light looked so dim, and
Moooo mooo mo mo mooooooo mooo moooo. Mo moo moooo mooooo mo moo, moo

the place, for the time, looked quiet enough, and the dilapidated little
moo moooo, moo moo mooo, mooooo moooo mooooo, moo moo moooooooooo mooooo

wooden house itself looked as if it might have been carted here from
mooooo moooo mooooo mooooo mo mo mo moooo mooo mooo mooooo mooo mooo

the ruins of some burnt district, and as the swinging sign had a
moo moooo mo mooo moooo mooooooo, moo mo moo mooooooo mooo moo m

poverty-stricken sort of creak to it, I thought that here was the very
moooooo-mooooooo mooo mo moooo mo mo, M moooooo mooo mooo moo moo mooo

spot for cheap lodgings, and the best of pea coffee.
mooo moo moooo mooooooo, moo moo mooo mo moo mooooo.




It was a queer sort of place--a gable-ended old house, one side palsied
Mo moo m moooo mooo mo moooo--m moooo-moooo moo moooo, moo mooo moooooo

as it were, and leaning over sadly. It stood on a sharp bleak corner,
mo mo mooo, moo moooooo mooo moooo. Mo moooo mo m moooo moooo mooooo,

where that tempestuous wind Euroclydon kept up a worse howling than ever
moooo mooo moooooooooo mooo Mooooooooo mooo mo m moooo moooooo mooo mooo

it did about poor Paul's tossed craft. Euroclydon, nevertheless, is a
mo moo moooo mooo Mooo'm mooooo moooo. Mooooooooo, mooooooooooo, mo m

mighty pleasant zephyr to any one in-doors, with his feet on the hob
mooooo mooooooo mooooo mo moo moo mo-moooo, mooo moo mooo mo moo moo

quietly toasting for bed. "In judging of that tempestuous wind called
moooooo mooooooo moo moo. "Mo moooooo mo mooo moooooooooo mooo mooooo

Euroclydon," says an old writer--of whose works I possess the only copy
Mooooooooo," mooo mo moo mooooo--mo moooo moooo M moooooo moo mooo mooo

extant--"it maketh a marvellous difference, whether thou lookest out at
mooooo--"mo mooooo m mooooooooo mooooooooo, moooooo mooo moooooo moo mo

it from a glass window where the frost is all on the outside, or whether
mo mooo m moooo mooooo moooo moo moooo mo moo mo moo moooooo, mo moooooo

thou observest it from that sashless window, where the frost is on both
mooo moooooooo mo mooo mooo mooooooo mooooo, moooo moo moooo mo mo mooo

sides, and of which the wight Death is the only glazier." True enough,
moooo, moo mo moooo moo moooo Moooo mo moo mooo moooooo." Mooo mooooo,

thought I, as this passage occurred to my mind--old black-letter, thou
moooooo M, mo mooo moooooo mooooooo mo mo mooo--moo moooo-mooooo, mooo

reasonest well. Yes, these eyes are windows, and this body of mine is
moooooooo mooo. Moo, moooo mooo moo moooooo, moo mooo mooo mo mooo mo

the house. What a pity they didn't stop up the chinks and the crannies
moo moooo. Mooo m mooo mooo mooo'm mooo mo moo mooooo moo moo mooooooo

though, and thrust in a little lint here and there. But it's too late
mooooo, moo mooooo mo m mooooo mooo mooo moo moooo. Moo mo'm moo mooo

to make any improvements now. The universe is finished; the copestone
mo mooo moo mooooooooooo moo. Moo mooooooo mo mooooooo; moo moooooooo

is on, and the chips were carted off a million years ago. Poor Lazarus
mo mo, moo moo moooo mooo mooooo moo m moooooo moooo moo. Mooo Moooooo

there, chattering his teeth against the curbstone for his pillow, and
moooo, mooooooooo moo moooo moooooo moo moooooooo moo moo mooooo, moo

shaking off his tatters with his shiverings, he might plug up both ears
moooooo moo moo moooooo mooo moo mooooooooo, mo moooo mooo mo mooo mooo

with rags, and put a corn-cob into his mouth, and yet that would not
mooo mooo, moo moo m mooo-moo mooo moo moooo, moo moo mooo moooo moo

keep out the tempestuous Euroclydon. Euroclydon! says old Dives, in his
mooo moo moo moooooooooo Mooooooooo. Mooooooooo! mooo moo Moooo, mo moo

red silken wrapper--(he had a redder one afterwards) pooh, pooh! What
moo mooooo moooooo--(mo moo m mooooo moo mooooooooo) mooo, mooo! Mooo

a fine frosty night; how Orion glitters; what northern lights! Let them
m mooo mooooo moooo; moo Moooo mooooooo; mooo mooooooo mooooo! Moo mooo

talk of their oriental summer climes of everlasting conservatories; give
mooo mo moooo mooooooo mooooo mooooo mo moooooooooo mooooooooooooo; mooo

me the privilege of making my own summer with my own coals.
mo moo moooooooo mo mooooo mo moo mooooo mooo mo moo moooo.




But what thinks Lazarus? Can he warm his blue hands by holding them up
Moo mooo mooooo Moooooo? Moo mo mooo moo mooo moooo mo moooooo mooo mo

to the grand northern lights? Would not Lazarus rather be in Sumatra
mo moo moooo mooooooo mooooo? Moooo moo Moooooo mooooo mo mo Moooooo

than here? Would he not far rather lay him down lengthwise along the
mooo mooo? Moooo mo moo moo mooooo moo moo mooo mooooooooo moooo moo

line of the equator; yea, ye gods! go down to the fiery pit itself, in
mooo mo moo moooooo; moo, mo mooo! mo mooo mo moo moooo moo mooooo, mo

order to keep out this frost?
moooo mo mooo moo mooo moooo?




Now, that Lazarus should lie stranded there on the curbstone before the
Moo, mooo Moooooo mooooo moo mooooooo moooo mo moo moooooooo mooooo moo

door of Dives, this is more wonderful than that an iceberg should be
mooo mo Moooo, mooo mo mooo moooooooo mooo mooo mo moooooo mooooo mo

moored to one of the Moluccas. Yet Dives himself, he too lives like a
mooooo mo moo mo moo Mooooooo. Moo Moooo moooooo, mo moo moooo mooo m

Czar in an ice palace made of frozen sighs, and being a president of a
Mooo mo mo moo mooooo mooo mo mooooo moooo, moo moooo m moooooooo mo m

temperance society, he only drinks the tepid tears of orphans.
mooooooooo moooooo, mo mooo mooooo moo moooo moooo mo moooooo.




But no more of this blubbering now, we are going a-whaling, and there is
Moo mo mooo mo mooo mooooooooo moo, mo moo moooo m-moooooo, moo moooo mo

plenty of that yet to come. Let us scrape the ice from our frosted feet,
mooooo mo mooo moo mo mooo. Moo mo mooooo moo moo mooo moo moooooo mooo,

and see what sort of a place this "Spouter" may be.
moo moo mooo mooo mo m moooo mooo "Moooooo" moo mo.










CHAPTER 3. The Spouter-Inn.
MOOOOOO m. Moo Moooooo-Moo.







Entering that gable-ended Spouter-Inn, you found yourself in a wide,
Mooooooo mooo moooo-moooo Moooooo-Moo, moo moooo mooooooo mo m mooo,

low, straggling entry with old-fashioned wainscots, reminding one of
moo, mooooooooo moooo mooo moo-moooooooo moooooooo, moooooooo moo mo

the bulwarks of some condemned old craft. On one side hung a very large
moo mooooooo mo mooo moooooooo moo moooo. Mo moo mooo mooo m mooo moooo

oilpainting so thoroughly besmoked, and every way defaced, that in the
moooooooooo mo mooooooooo mooooooo, moo moooo moo moooooo, mooo mo moo

unequal crosslights by which you viewed it, it was only by diligent
moooooo moooooooooo mo moooo moo mooooo mo, mo moo mooo mo mooooooo

study and a series of systematic visits to it, and careful inquiry of
moooo moo m mooooo mo mooooooooo mooooo mo mo, moo moooooo moooooo mo

the neighbors, that you could any way arrive at an understanding of its
moo moooooooo, mooo moo moooo moo moo mooooo mo mo moooooooooooo mo moo

purpose. Such unaccountable masses of shades and shadows, that at first
moooooo. Mooo moooooooooooo mooooo mo mooooo moo moooooo, mooo mo moooo

you almost thought some ambitious young artist, in the time of the New
moo mooooo moooooo mooo moooooooo moooo mooooo, mo moo mooo mo moo Moo

England hags, had endeavored to delineate chaos bewitched. But by dint
Moooooo mooo, moo mooooooooo mo moooooooo moooo moooooooo. Moo mo mooo

of much and earnest contemplation, and oft repeated ponderings, and
mo mooo moo moooooo moooooooooooo, moo moo mooooooo mooooooooo, moo

especially by throwing open the little window towards the back of the
mooooooooo mo mooooooo mooo moo mooooo mooooo moooooo moo mooo mo moo

entry, you at last come to the conclusion that such an idea, however
moooo, moo mo mooo mooo mo moo mooooooooo mooo mooo mo mooo, moooooo

wild, might not be altogether unwarranted.
mooo, moooo moo mo mooooooooo moooooooooo.




But what most puzzled and confounded you was a long, limber, portentous,
Moo mooo mooo moooooo moo mooooooooo moo moo m mooo, mooooo, mooooooooo,

black mass of something hovering in the centre of the picture over three
moooo mooo mo moooooooo mooooooo mo moo mooooo mo moo moooooo mooo moooo

blue, dim, perpendicular lines floating in a nameless yeast. A boggy,
mooo, moo, moooooooooooo moooo mooooooo mo m mooooooo moooo. M moooo,

soggy, squitchy picture truly, enough to drive a nervous man distracted.
moooo, mooooooo moooooo moooo, mooooo mo moooo m moooooo moo mooooooooo.

Yet was there a sort of indefinite, half-attained, unimaginable
Moo moo moooo m mooo mo mooooooooo, mooo-mooooooo, mooooooooooo

sublimity about it that fairly froze you to it, till you involuntarily
moooooooo moooo mo mooo mooooo moooo moo mo mo, mooo moo moooooooooooo

took an oath with yourself to find out what that marvellous painting
mooo mo mooo mooo mooooooo mo mooo moo mooo mooo mooooooooo mooooooo

meant. Ever and anon a bright, but, alas, deceptive idea would dart you
moooo. Mooo moo mooo m mooooo, moo, mooo, moooooooo mooo moooo mooo moo

through.--It's the Black Sea in a midnight gale.--It's the unnatural
moooooo.--Mo'm moo Moooo Moo mo m mooooooo mooo.--Mo'm moo moooooooo

combat of the four primal elements.--It's a blasted heath.--It's a
mooooo mo moo mooo mooooo mooooooo.--Mo'm m moooooo moooo.--Mo'm m

Hyperborean winter scene.--It's the breaking-up of the icebound stream
Moooooooooo mooooo moooo.--Mo'm moo mooooooo-mo mo moo mooooooo mooooo

of Time. But at last all these fancies yielded to that one portentous
mo Mooo. Moo mo mooo moo moooo moooooo moooooo mo mooo moo mooooooooo

something in the picture's midst. THAT once found out, and all the rest
moooooooo mo moo moooooo'm moooo. MOOO mooo moooo moo, moo moo moo mooo

were plain. But stop; does it not bear a faint resemblance to a gigantic
mooo moooo. Moo mooo; mooo mo moo mooo m moooo moooooooooo mo m mooooooo

fish? even the great leviathan himself?
mooo? mooo moo moooo moooooooo moooooo?




In fact, the artist's design seemed this: a final theory of my own,
Mo mooo, moo mooooo'm mooooo mooooo mooo: m moooo mooooo mo mo moo,

partly based upon the aggregated opinions of many aged persons with whom
mooooo moooo mooo moo mooooooooo mooooooo mo mooo mooo moooooo mooo mooo

I conversed upon the subject. The picture represents a Cape-Horner in a
M moooooooo mooo moo moooooo. Moo moooooo mooooooooo m Mooo-Mooooo mo m

great hurricane; the half-foundered ship weltering there with its three
moooo moooooooo; moo mooo-moooooooo mooo moooooooo moooo mooo moo moooo

dismantled masts alone visible; and an exasperated whale, purposing to
mooooooooo moooo moooo moooooo; moo mo moooooooooo moooo, moooooooo mo

spring clean over the craft, is in the enormous act of impaling himself
mooooo moooo mooo moo moooo, mo mo moo mooooooo moo mo mooooooo moooooo

upon the three mast-heads.
mooo moo moooo mooo-moooo.




The opposite wall of this entry was hung all over with a heathenish
Moo mooooooo mooo mo mooo moooo moo mooo moo mooo mooo m mooooooooo

array of monstrous clubs and spears. Some were thickly set with
moooo mo moooooooo moooo moo mooooo. Mooo mooo moooooo moo mooo

glittering teeth resembling ivory saws; others were tufted with knots of
mooooooooo moooo mooooooooo moooo mooo; mooooo mooo mooooo mooo moooo mo

human hair; and one was sickle-shaped, with a vast handle sweeping round
moooo mooo; moo moo moo mooooo-mooooo, mooo m mooo mooooo mooooooo moooo

like the segment made in the new-mown grass by a long-armed mower. You
mooo moo moooooo mooo mo moo moo-mooo moooo mo m mooo-moooo moooo. Moo

shuddered as you gazed, and wondered what monstrous cannibal and savage
moooooooo mo moo moooo, moo mooooooo mooo moooooooo mooooooo moo mooooo

could ever have gone a death-harvesting with such a hacking, horrifying
moooo mooo mooo mooo m moooo-mooooooooo mooo mooo m moooooo, mooooooooo

implement. Mixed with these were rusty old whaling lances and harpoons
moooooooo. Moooo mooo moooo mooo moooo moo moooooo mooooo moo mooooooo

all broken and deformed. Some were storied weapons. With this once long
moo mooooo moo mooooooo. Mooo mooo moooooo moooooo. Mooo mooo mooo mooo

lance, now wildly elbowed, fifty years ago did Nathan Swain kill fifteen
moooo, moo mooooo moooooo, moooo moooo moo moo Mooooo Moooo mooo moooooo

whales between a sunrise and a sunset. And that harpoon--so like a
mooooo moooooo m moooooo moo m mooooo. Moo mooo moooooo--mo mooo m

corkscrew now--was flung in Javan seas, and run away with by a whale,
moooooooo moo--moo moooo mo Moooo mooo, moo moo mooo mooo mo m moooo,

years afterwards slain off the Cape of Blanco. The original iron entered
moooo mooooooooo moooo moo moo Mooo mo Mooooo. Moo mooooooo mooo moooooo

nigh the tail, and, like a restless needle sojourning in the body of a
mooo moo mooo, moo, mooo m mooooooo mooooo mooooooooo mo moo mooo mo m

man, travelled full forty feet, and at last was found imbedded in the
moo, moooooooo mooo moooo mooo, moo mo mooo moo moooo mooooooo mo moo

hump.
mooo.




Crossing this dusky entry, and on through yon low-arched way--cut
Mooooooo mooo moooo moooo, moo mo moooooo moo moo-mooooo moo--moo

through what in old times must have been a great central chimney with
moooooo mooo mo moo moooo mooo mooo mooo m moooo moooooo moooooo mooo

fireplaces all round--you enter the public room. A still duskier place
mooooooooo moo moooo--moo moooo moo mooooo mooo. M moooo moooooo moooo

is this, with such low ponderous beams above, and such old wrinkled
mo mooo, mooo mooo moo moooooooo moooo moooo, moo mooo moo mooooooo

planks beneath, that you would almost fancy you trod some old craft's
mooooo moooooo, mooo moo moooo mooooo moooo moo mooo mooo moo moooo'm

cockpits, especially of such a howling night, when this corner-anchored
mooooooo, mooooooooo mo mooo m moooooo moooo, mooo mooo mooooo-mooooooo

old ark rocked so furiously. On one side stood a long, low, shelf-like
moo moo mooooo mo moooooooo. Mo moo mooo moooo m mooo, moo, moooo-mooo

table covered with cracked glass cases, filled with dusty rarities
moooo moooooo mooo moooooo moooo moooo, mooooo mooo moooo mooooooo

gathered from this wide world's remotest nooks. Projecting from the
mooooooo mooo mooo mooo moooo'm mooooooo moooo. Mooooooooo mooo moo

further angle of the room stands a dark-looking den--the bar--a rude
moooooo moooo mo moo mooo mooooo m mooo-moooooo moo--moo moo--m mooo

attempt at a right whale's head. Be that how it may, there stands the
moooooo mo m moooo moooo'm mooo. Mo mooo moo mo moo, moooo mooooo moo

vast arched bone of the whale's jaw, so wide, a coach might almost drive
mooo mooooo mooo mo moo moooo'm moo, mo mooo, m moooo moooo mooooo moooo

beneath it. Within are shabby shelves, ranged round with old decanters,
moooooo mo. Mooooo moo mooooo moooooo, mooooo moooo mooo moo moooooooo,

bottles, flasks; and in those jaws of swift destruction, like another
moooooo, mooooo; moo mo moooo mooo mo moooo moooooooooo, mooo moooooo

cursed Jonah (by which name indeed they called him), bustles a little
mooooo Moooo (mo moooo mooo mooooo mooo mooooo moo), moooooo m mooooo

withered old man, who, for their money, dearly sells the sailors
mooooooo moo moo, moo, moo moooo moooo, mooooo moooo moo moooooo

deliriums and death.
moooooooo moo moooo.




Abominable are the tumblers into which he pours his poison. Though
Mooooooooo moo moo mooooooo mooo moooo mo moooo moo mooooo. Mooooo

true cylinders without--within, the villanous green goggling glasses
mooo moooooooo moooooo--mooooo, moo moooooooo moooo mooooooo moooooo

deceitfully tapered downwards to a cheating bottom. Parallel meridians
moooooooooo moooooo moooooooo mo m mooooooo mooooo. Mooooooo moooooooo

rudely pecked into the glass, surround these footpads' goblets. Fill to
mooooo mooooo mooo moo moooo, mooooooo moooo mooooooo' moooooo. Mooo mo

THIS mark, and your charge is but a penny; to THIS a penny more; and so
MOOO mooo, moo mooo mooooo mo moo m moooo; mo MOOO m moooo mooo; moo mo

on to the full glass--the Cape Horn measure, which you may gulp down for
mo mo moo mooo moooo--moo Mooo Mooo moooooo, moooo moo moo mooo mooo moo

a shilling.
m mooooooo.




Upon entering the place I found a number of young seamen gathered about
Mooo mooooooo moo moooo M moooo m mooooo mo moooo mooooo mooooooo moooo

a table, examining by a dim light divers specimens of SKRIMSHANDER. I
m moooo, moooooooo mo m moo moooo mooooo moooooooo mo MOOOOOOOOOOO. M

sought the landlord, and telling him I desired to be accommodated with a
mooooo moo mooooooo, moo moooooo moo M moooooo mo mo mooooooooooo mooo m

room, received for answer that his house was full--not a bed unoccupied.
mooo, mooooooo moo mooooo mooo moo moooo moo mooo--moo m moo mooooooooo.

"But avast," he added, tapping his forehead, "you haint no objections
"Moo moooo," mo moooo, moooooo moo mooooooo, "moo moooo mo mooooooooo

to sharing a harpooneer's blanket, have ye? I s'pose you are goin'
mo moooooo m mooooooooo'm moooooo, mooo mo? M m'mooo moo moo mooo'

a-whalin', so you'd better get used to that sort of thing."
m-mooooo', mo moo'm mooooo moo mooo mo mooo mooo mo moooo."




I told him that I never liked to sleep two in a bed; that if I should
M mooo moo mooo M moooo moooo mo moooo moo mo m moo; mooo mo M mooooo

ever do so, it would depend upon who the harpooneer might be, and
mooo mo mo, mo moooo mooooo mooo moo moo mooooooooo moooo mo, moo

that if he (the landlord) really had no other place for me, and the
mooo mo mo (moo mooooooo) mooooo moo mo moooo moooo moo mo, moo moo

harpooneer was not decidedly objectionable, why rather than wander
mooooooooo moo moo moooooooo moooooooooooo, moo mooooo mooo mooooo

further about a strange town on so bitter a night, I would put up with
moooooo moooo m moooooo mooo mo mo mooooo m moooo, M moooo moo mo mooo

the half of any decent man's blanket.
moo mooo mo moo mooooo moo'm moooooo.




"I thought so. All right; take a seat. Supper?--you want supper?
"M moooooo mo. Moo moooo; mooo m mooo. Mooooo?--moo mooo mooooo?

Supper'll be ready directly."
Mooooo'mo mo moooo mooooooo."




I sat down on an old wooden settle, carved all over like a bench on the
M moo mooo mo mo moo mooooo mooooo, mooooo moo mooo mooo m moooo mo moo

Battery. At one end a ruminating tar was still further adorning it with
Moooooo. Mo moo moo m mooooooooo moo moo moooo moooooo mooooooo mo mooo

his jack-knife, stooping over and diligently working away at the space
moo mooo-moooo, mooooooo mooo moo mooooooooo moooooo mooo mo moo moooo

between his legs. He was trying his hand at a ship under full sail, but
moooooo moo mooo. Mo moo mooooo moo mooo mo m mooo moooo mooo mooo, moo

he didn't make much headway, I thought.
mo mooo'm mooo mooo moooooo, M moooooo.




At last some four or five of us were summoned to our meal in an
Mo mooo mooo mooo mo mooo mo mo mooo mooooooo mo moo mooo mo mo

adjoining room. It was cold as Iceland--no fire at all--the landlord
moooooooo mooo. Mo moo mooo mo Moooooo--mo mooo mo moo--moo mooooooo

said he couldn't afford it. Nothing but two dismal tallow candles, each
mooo mo mooooo'm mooooo mo. Moooooo moo moo mooooo mooooo moooooo, mooo

in a winding sheet. We were fain to button up our monkey jackets, and
mo m moooooo moooo. Mo mooo mooo mo mooooo mo moo mooooo moooooo, moo

hold to our lips cups of scalding tea with our half frozen fingers. But
mooo mo moo mooo mooo mo mooooooo moo mooo moo mooo mooooo moooooo. Moo

the fare was of the most substantial kind--not only meat and potatoes,
moo mooo moo mo moo mooo moooooooooo mooo--moo mooo mooo moo mooooooo,

but dumplings; good heavens! dumplings for supper! One young fellow in
moo moooooooo; mooo moooooo! moooooooo moo mooooo! Moo moooo mooooo mo

a green box coat, addressed himself to these dumplings in a most direful
m moooo moo mooo, moooooooo moooooo mo moooo moooooooo mo m mooo moooooo

manner.
mooooo.




"My boy," said the landlord, "you'll have the nightmare to a dead
"Mo moo," mooo moo mooooooo, "moo'mo mooo moo moooooooo mo m mooo

sartainty."
moooooooo."




"Landlord," I whispered, "that aint the harpooneer is it?"
"Mooooooo," M moooooooo, "mooo mooo moo mooooooooo mo mo?"




"Oh, no," said he, looking a sort of diabolically funny, "the harpooneer
"Mo, mo," mooo mo, moooooo m mooo mo mooooooooooo moooo, "moo mooooooooo

is a dark complexioned chap. He never eats dumplings, he don't--he eats
mo m mooo mooooooooooo mooo. Mo moooo mooo moooooooo, mo moo'm--mo mooo

nothing but steaks, and he likes 'em rare."
moooooo moo mooooo, moo mo moooo 'mo mooo."




"The devil he does," says I. "Where is that harpooneer? Is he here?"
"Moo moooo mo mooo," mooo M. "Moooo mo mooo mooooooooo? Mo mo mooo?"




"He'll be here afore long," was the answer.
"Mo'mo mo mooo moooo mooo," moo moo mooooo.




I could not help it, but I began to feel suspicious of this "dark
M moooo moo mooo mo, moo M moooo mo mooo mooooooooo mo mooo "mooo

complexioned" harpooneer. At any rate, I made up my mind that if it so
mooooooooooo" mooooooooo. Mo moo mooo, M mooo mo mo mooo mooo mo mo mo

turned out that we should sleep together, he must undress and get into
mooooo moo mooo mo mooooo moooo mooooooo, mo mooo moooooo moo moo mooo

bed before I did.
moo mooooo M moo.




Supper over, the company went back to the bar-room, when, knowing not
Mooooo mooo, moo moooooo mooo mooo mo moo moo-mooo, mooo, moooooo moo

what else to do with myself, I resolved to spend the rest of the evening
mooo mooo mo mo mooo mooooo, M mooooooo mo moooo moo mooo mo moo moooooo

as a looker on.
mo m mooooo mo.




Presently a rioting noise was heard without. Starting up, the landlord
Moooooooo m moooooo moooo moo moooo moooooo. Mooooooo mo, moo mooooooo

cried, "That's the Grampus's crew. I seed her reported in the offing
moooo, "Mooo'm moo Moooooo'm mooo. M mooo moo mooooooo mo moo mooooo

this morning; a three years' voyage, and a full ship. Hurrah, boys; now
mooo moooooo; m moooo moooo' mooooo, moo m mooo mooo. Mooooo, mooo; moo

we'll have the latest news from the Feegees."
mo'mo mooo moo mooooo mooo mooo moo Moooooo."




A tramping of sea boots was heard in the entry; the door was flung open,
M mooooooo mo moo moooo moo moooo mo moo moooo; moo mooo moo moooo mooo,

and in rolled a wild set of mariners enough. Enveloped in their shaggy
moo mo mooooo m mooo moo mo mooooooo mooooo. Moooooooo mo moooo mooooo

watch coats, and with their heads muffled in woollen comforters, all
moooo moooo, moo mooo moooo moooo moooooo mo moooooo mooooooooo, moo

bedarned and ragged, and their beards stiff with icicles, they seemed an
mooooooo moo mooooo, moo moooo mooooo moooo mooo moooooo, mooo mooooo mo

eruption of bears from Labrador. They had just landed from their boat,
mooooooo mo moooo mooo Mooooooo. Mooo moo mooo mooooo mooo moooo mooo,

and this was the first house they entered. No wonder, then, that they
moo mooo moo moo moooo moooo mooo moooooo. Mo mooooo, mooo, mooo mooo

made a straight wake for the whale's mouth--the bar--when the wrinkled
mooo m mooooooo mooo moo moo moooo'm moooo--moo moo--mooo moo mooooooo

little old Jonah, there officiating, soon poured them out brimmers all
mooooo moo Moooo, moooo moooooooooo, mooo mooooo mooo moo mooooooo moo

round. One complained of a bad cold in his head, upon which Jonah
moooo. Moo mooooooooo mo m moo mooo mo moo mooo, mooo moooo Moooo

mixed him a pitch-like potion of gin and molasses, which he swore was a
moooo moo m moooo-mooo mooooo mo moo moo mooooooo, moooo mo moooo moo m

sovereign cure for all colds and catarrhs whatsoever, never mind of how
moooooooo mooo moo moo moooo moo mooooooo mooooooooo, moooo mooo mo moo

long standing, or whether caught off the coast of Labrador, or on the
mooo mooooooo, mo moooooo mooooo moo moo moooo mo Mooooooo, mo mo moo

weather side of an ice-island.
moooooo mooo mo mo moo-mooooo.




The liquor soon mounted into their heads, as it generally does even
Moo mooooo mooo moooooo mooo moooo moooo, mo mo moooooooo mooo mooo

with the arrantest topers newly landed from sea, and they began capering
mooo moo moooooooo mooooo moooo mooooo mooo moo, moo mooo moooo mooooooo

about most obstreperously.
moooo mooo mooooooooooooo.




I observed, however, that one of them held somewhat aloof, and though
M mooooooo, moooooo, mooo moo mo mooo mooo mooooooo moooo, moo mooooo

he seemed desirous not to spoil the hilarity of his shipmates by his own
mo mooooo mooooooo moo mo moooo moo mooooooo mo moo moooooooo mo moo moo

sober face, yet upon the whole he refrained from making as much noise
moooo mooo, moo mooo moo moooo mo moooooooo mooo mooooo mo mooo moooo

as the rest. This man interested me at once; and since the sea-gods
mo moo mooo. Mooo moo mooooooooo mo mo mooo; moo moooo moo moo-mooo

had ordained that he should soon become my shipmate (though but a
moo mooooooo mooo mo mooooo mooo mooooo mo mooooooo (mooooo moo m

sleeping-partner one, so far as this narrative is concerned), I will
mooooooo-moooooo moo, mo moo mo mooo moooooooo mo moooooooo), M mooo

here venture upon a little description of him. He stood full six feet
mooo moooooo mooo m mooooo moooooooooo mo moo. Mo moooo mooo moo mooo

in height, with noble shoulders, and a chest like a coffer-dam. I have
mo mooooo, mooo moooo moooooooo, moo m moooo mooo m mooooo-moo. M mooo

seldom seen such brawn in a man. His face was deeply brown and burnt,
mooooo mooo mooo moooo mo m moo. Moo mooo moo mooooo moooo moo moooo,

making his white teeth dazzling by the contrast; while in the deep
mooooo moo moooo moooo mooooooo mo moo mooooooo; moooo mo moo mooo

shadows of his eyes floated some reminiscences that did not seem to give
moooooo mo moo mooo moooooo mooo moooooooooooo mooo moo moo mooo mo mooo

him much joy. His voice at once announced that he was a Southerner,
moo mooo moo. Moo moooo mo mooo moooooooo mooo mo moo m Mooooooooo,

and from his fine stature, I thought he must be one of those tall
moo mooo moo mooo moooooo, M moooooo mo mooo mo moo mo moooo mooo

mountaineers from the Alleghanian Ridge in Virginia. When the revelry
mooooooooooo mooo moo Moooooooooo Moooo mo Mooooooo. Mooo moo moooooo

of his companions had mounted to its height, this man slipped away
mo moo mooooooooo moo moooooo mo moo mooooo, mooo moo moooooo mooo

unobserved, and I saw no more of him till he became my comrade on the
mooooooooo, moo M moo mo mooo mo moo mooo mo mooooo mo moooooo mo moo

sea. In a few minutes, however, he was missed by his shipmates, and
moo. Mo m moo moooooo, moooooo, mo moo mooooo mo moo moooooooo, moo

being, it seems, for some reason a huge favourite with them, they raised
moooo, mo moooo, moo mooo mooooo m mooo moooooooo mooo mooo, mooo mooooo

a cry of "Bulkington! Bulkington! where's Bulkington?" and darted out of
m moo mo "Mooooooooo! Mooooooooo! moooo'm Mooooooooo?" moo mooooo moo mo

the house in pursuit of him.
moo moooo mo moooooo mo moo.




It was now about nine o'clock, and the room seeming almost
Mo moo moo moooo mooo m'moooo, moo moo mooo moooooo mooooo

supernaturally quiet after these orgies, I began to congratulate myself
mooooooooooooo moooo moooo moooo mooooo, M moooo mo mooooooooooo mooooo

upon a little plan that had occurred to me just previous to the entrance
mooo m mooooo mooo mooo moo mooooooo mo mo mooo mooooooo mo moo mooooooo

of the seamen.
mo moo mooooo.




No man prefers to sleep two in a bed. In fact, you would a good deal
Mo moo moooooo mo moooo moo mo m moo. Mo mooo, moo moooo m mooo mooo

rather not sleep with your own brother. I don't know how it is, but
mooooo moo moooo mooo mooo moo moooooo. M moo'm mooo moo mo mo, moo

people like to be private when they are sleeping. And when it comes to
mooooo mooo mo mo moooooo mooo mooo moo mooooooo. Moo mooo mo moooo mo

sleeping with an unknown stranger, in a strange inn, in a strange
mooooooo mooo mo moooooo mooooooo, mo m moooooo moo, mo m moooooo

town, and that stranger a harpooneer, then your objections indefinitely
mooo, moo mooo mooooooo m mooooooooo, mooo mooo mooooooooo mooooooooooo

multiply. Nor was there any earthly reason why I as a sailor should
mooooooo. Moo moo moooo moo moooooo mooooo moo M mo m mooooo mooooo

sleep two in a bed, more than anybody else; for sailors no more sleep
moooo moo mo m moo, mooo mooo moooooo mooo; moo moooooo mo mooo moooo

two in a bed at sea, than bachelor Kings do ashore. To be sure they
moo mo m moo mo moo, mooo mooooooo Moooo mo mooooo. Mo mo mooo mooo

all sleep together in one apartment, but you have your own hammock, and
moo moooo mooooooo mo moo moooooooo, moo moo mooo mooo moo moooooo, moo

cover yourself with your own blanket, and sleep in your own skin.
moooo mooooooo mooo mooo moo moooooo, moo moooo mo mooo moo mooo.




The more I pondered over this harpooneer, the more I abominated the
Moo mooo M mooooooo mooo mooo mooooooooo, moo mooo M mooooooooo moo

thought of sleeping with him. It was fair to presume that being a
moooooo mo mooooooo mooo moo. Mo moo mooo mo moooooo mooo moooo m

harpooneer, his linen or woollen, as the case might be, would not be of
mooooooooo, moo moooo mo moooooo, mo moo mooo moooo mo, moooo moo mo mo

the tidiest, certainly none of the finest. I began to twitch all over.
moo moooooo, moooooooo mooo mo moo mooooo. M moooo mo mooooo moo mooo.

Besides, it was getting late, and my decent harpooneer ought to be
Moooooo, mo moo moooooo mooo, moo mo mooooo mooooooooo moooo mo mo

home and going bedwards. Suppose now, he should tumble in upon me at
mooo moo moooo mooooooo. Moooooo moo, mo mooooo mooooo mo mooo mo mo

midnight--how could I tell from what vile hole he had been coming?
mooooooo--moo moooo M mooo mooo mooo mooo mooo mo moo mooo mooooo?




"Landlord! I've changed my mind about that harpooneer.--I shan't sleep
"Mooooooo! M'mo moooooo mo mooo moooo mooo mooooooooo.--M mooo'm moooo

with him. I'll try the bench here."
mooo moo. M'mo moo moo moooo mooo."




"Just as you please; I'm sorry I cant spare ye a tablecloth for a
"Mooo mo moo mooooo; M'm moooo M mooo moooo mo m mooooooooo moo m

mattress, and it's a plaguy rough board here"--feeling of the knots and
mooooooo, moo mo'm m mooooo moooo moooo mooo"--moooooo mo moo moooo moo

notches. "But wait a bit, Skrimshander; I've got a carpenter's plane
moooooo. "Moo mooo m moo, Mooooooooooo; M'mo moo m moooooooo'm moooo

there in the bar--wait, I say, and I'll make ye snug enough." So saying
moooo mo moo moo--mooo, M moo, moo M'mo mooo mo mooo mooooo." Mo mooooo

he procured the plane; and with his old silk handkerchief first dusting
mo mooooooo moo moooo; moo mooo moo moo mooo mooooooooooo moooo moooooo

the bench, vigorously set to planing away at my bed, the while grinning
moo moooo, mooooooooo moo mo moooooo mooo mo mo moo, moo moooo mooooooo

like an ape. The shavings flew right and left; till at last the
mooo mo moo. Moo mooooooo mooo moooo moo mooo; mooo mo mooo moo

plane-iron came bump against an indestructible knot. The landlord was
moooo-mooo mooo mooo moooooo mo mooooooooooooo mooo. Moo mooooooo moo

near spraining his wrist, and I told him for heaven's sake to quit--the
mooo moooooooo moo moooo, moo M mooo moo moo mooooo'm mooo mo mooo--moo

bed was soft enough to suit me, and I did not know how all the planing
moo moo mooo mooooo mo mooo mo, moo M moo moo mooo moo moo moo moooooo

in the world could make eider down of a pine plank. So gathering up the
mo moo moooo moooo mooo moooo mooo mo m mooo moooo. Mo moooooooo mo moo

shavings with another grin, and throwing them into the great stove in
mooooooo mooo moooooo mooo, moo mooooooo mooo mooo moo moooo moooo mo

the middle of the room, he went about his business, and left me in a
moo mooooo mo moo mooo, mo mooo moooo moo mooooooo, moo mooo mo mo m

brown study.
moooo moooo.




I now took the measure of the bench, and found that it was a foot too
M moo mooo moo moooooo mo moo moooo, moo moooo mooo mo moo m mooo moo

short; but that could be mended with a chair. But it was a foot too
moooo; moo mooo moooo mo mooooo mooo m moooo. Moo mo moo m mooo moo

narrow, and the other bench in the room was about four inches higher
mooooo, moo moo moooo moooo mo moo mooo moo moooo mooo mooooo mooooo

than the planed one--so there was no yoking them. I then placed the
mooo moo mooooo moo--mo moooo moo mo mooooo mooo. M mooo mooooo moo

first bench lengthwise along the only clear space against the wall,
moooo moooo mooooooooo moooo moo mooo moooo moooo moooooo moo mooo,

leaving a little interval between, for my back to settle down in. But I
moooooo m mooooo mooooooo moooooo, moo mo mooo mo mooooo mooo mo. Moo M

soon found that there came such a draught of cold air over me from under
mooo moooo mooo moooo mooo mooo m moooooo mo mooo moo mooo mo mooo moooo

the sill of the window, that this plan would never do at all, especially
moo mooo mo moo mooooo, mooo mooo mooo moooo moooo mo mo moo, mooooooooo

as another current from the rickety door met the one from the window,
mo moooooo moooooo mooo moo moooooo mooo moo moo moo mooo moo mooooo,

and both together formed a series of small whirlwinds in the immediate
moo mooo mooooooo mooooo m mooooo mo moooo mooooooooo mo moo moooooooo

vicinity of the spot where I had thought to spend the night.
mooooooo mo moo mooo moooo M moo moooooo mo moooo moo moooo.




The devil fetch that harpooneer, thought I, but stop, couldn't I steal
Moo moooo moooo mooo mooooooooo, moooooo M, moo mooo, mooooo'm M moooo

a march on him--bolt his door inside, and jump into his bed, not to be
m moooo mo moo--mooo moo mooo mooooo, moo mooo mooo moo moo, moo mo mo

wakened by the most violent knockings? It seemed no bad idea; but upon
moooooo mo moo mooo moooooo moooooooo? Mo mooooo mo moo mooo; moo mooo

second thoughts I dismissed it. For who could tell but what the next
mooooo mooooooo M moooooooo mo. Moo moo moooo mooo moo mooo moo mooo

morning, so soon as I popped out of the room, the harpooneer might be
moooooo, mo mooo mo M mooooo moo mo moo mooo, moo mooooooooo moooo mo

standing in the entry, all ready to knock me down!
mooooooo mo moo moooo, moo moooo mo moooo mo mooo!




Still, looking round me again, and seeing no possible chance of spending
Moooo, moooooo moooo mo moooo, moo mooooo mo mooooooo mooooo mo mooooooo

a sufferable night unless in some other person's bed, I began to think
m mooooooooo moooo mooooo mo mooo moooo mooooo'm moo, M moooo mo moooo

that after all I might be cherishing unwarrantable prejudices against
mooo moooo moo M moooo mo mooooooooo moooooooooooo mooooooooo moooooo

this unknown harpooneer. Thinks I, I'll wait awhile; he must be dropping
mooo moooooo mooooooooo. Mooooo M, M'mo mooo mooooo; mo mooo mo mooooooo

in before long. I'll have a good look at him then, and perhaps we may
mo mooooo mooo. M'mo mooo m mooo mooo mo moo mooo, moo moooooo mo moo

become jolly good bedfellows after all--there's no telling.
mooooo moooo mooo mooooooooo moooo moo--moooo'm mo moooooo.




But though the other boarders kept coming in by ones, twos, and threes,
Moo mooooo moo moooo mooooooo mooo mooooo mo mo mooo, mooo, moo mooooo,

and going to bed, yet no sign of my harpooneer.
moo moooo mo moo, moo mo mooo mo mo mooooooooo.




"Landlord!" said I, "what sort of a chap is he--does he always keep such
"Mooooooo!" mooo M, "mooo mooo mo m mooo mo mo--mooo mo mooooo mooo mooo

late hours?" It was now hard upon twelve o'clock.
mooo moooo?" Mo moo moo mooo mooo mooooo m'moooo.




The landlord chuckled again with his lean chuckle, and seemed to
Moo mooooooo mooooooo moooo mooo moo mooo moooooo, moo mooooo mo

be mightily tickled at something beyond my comprehension. "No," he
mo mooooooo moooooo mo moooooooo mooooo mo moooooooooooo. "Mo," mo

answered, "generally he's an early bird--airley to bed and airley to
mooooooo, "moooooooo mo'm mo moooo mooo--mooooo mo moo moo mooooo mo

rise--yes, he's the bird what catches the worm. But to-night he went out
mooo--moo, mo'm moo mooo mooo moooooo moo mooo. Moo mo-moooo mo mooo moo

a peddling, you see, and I don't see what on airth keeps him so late,
m mooooooo, moo moo, moo M moo'm moo mooo mo moooo moooo moo mo mooo,

unless, may be, he can't sell his head."
mooooo, moo mo, mo moo'm mooo moo mooo."




"Can't sell his head?--What sort of a bamboozingly story is this you
"Moo'm mooo moo mooo?--Mooo mooo mo m mooooooooooo moooo mo mooo moo

are telling me?" getting into a towering rage. "Do you pretend to say,
moo moooooo mo?" moooooo mooo m mooooooo mooo. "Mo moo moooooo mo moo,

landlord, that this harpooneer is actually engaged this blessed Saturday
mooooooo, mooo mooo mooooooooo mo mooooooo moooooo mooo moooooo Mooooooo

night, or rather Sunday morning, in peddling his head around this town?"
moooo, mo mooooo Mooooo moooooo, mo mooooooo moo mooo mooooo mooo mooo?"




"That's precisely it," said the landlord, "and I told him he couldn't
"Mooo'm moooooooo mo," mooo moo mooooooo, "moo M mooo moo mo mooooo'm

sell it here, the market's overstocked."
mooo mo mooo, moo mooooo'm moooooooooo."




"With what?" shouted I.
"Mooo mooo?" moooooo M.




"With heads to be sure; ain't there too many heads in the world?"
"Mooo moooo mo mo mooo; moo'm moooo moo mooo moooo mo moo moooo?"




"I tell you what it is, landlord," said I quite calmly, "you'd better
"M mooo moo mooo mo mo, mooooooo," mooo M moooo mooooo, "moo'm mooooo

stop spinning that yarn to me--I'm not green."
mooo mooooooo mooo mooo mo mo--M'm moo moooo."




"May be not," taking out a stick and whittling a toothpick, "but I
"Moo mo moo," mooooo moo m moooo moo moooooooo m moooooooo, "moo M

rayther guess you'll be done BROWN if that ere harpooneer hears you a
moooooo moooo moo'mo mo mooo MOOOO mo mooo moo mooooooooo moooo moo m

slanderin' his head."
moooooooo' moo mooo."




"I'll break it for him," said I, now flying into a passion again at this
"M'mo moooo mo moo moo," mooo M, moo mooooo mooo m moooooo moooo mo mooo

unaccountable farrago of the landlord's.
moooooooooooo moooooo mo moo mooooooo'm.




"It's broke a'ready," said he.
"Mo'm moooo m'moooo," mooo mo.




"Broke," said I--"BROKE, do you mean?"
"Moooo," mooo M--"MOOOO, mo moo mooo?"




"Sartain, and that's the very reason he can't sell it, I guess."
"Moooooo, moo mooo'm moo mooo mooooo mo moo'm mooo mo, M moooo."




"Landlord," said I, going up to him as cool as Mt. Hecla in a
"Mooooooo," mooo M, moooo mo mo moo mo mooo mo Mo. Moooo mo m

snow-storm--"landlord, stop whittling. You and I must understand one
mooo-moooo--"mooooooo, mooo moooooooo. Moo moo M mooo mooooooooo moo

another, and that too without delay. I come to your house and want a
moooooo, moo mooo moo moooooo moooo. M mooo mo mooo moooo moo mooo m

bed; you tell me you can only give me half a one; that the other half
moo; moo mooo mo moo moo mooo mooo mo mooo m moo; mooo moo moooo mooo

belongs to a certain harpooneer. And about this harpooneer, whom I
moooooo mo m moooooo mooooooooo. Moo moooo mooo mooooooooo, mooo M

have not yet seen, you persist in telling me the most mystifying and
mooo moo moo mooo, moo moooooo mo moooooo mo moo mooo mooooooooo moo

exasperating stories tending to beget in me an uncomfortable feeling
mooooooooooo moooooo moooooo mo moooo mo mo mo moooooooooooo moooooo

towards the man whom you design for my bedfellow--a sort of connexion,
moooooo moo moo mooo moo mooooo moo mo moooooooo--m mooo mo moooooooo,

landlord, which is an intimate and confidential one in the highest
mooooooo, moooo mo mo mooooooo moo mooooooooooo moo mo moo moooooo

degree. I now demand of you to speak out and tell me who and what this
mooooo. M moo mooooo mo moo mo moooo moo moo mooo mo moo moo mooo mooo

harpooneer is, and whether I shall be in all respects safe to spend the
mooooooooo mo, moo moooooo M moooo mo mo moo mooooooo mooo mo moooo moo

night with him. And in the first place, you will be so good as to unsay
moooo mooo moo. Moo mo moo moooo moooo, moo mooo mo mo mooo mo mo moooo

that story about selling his head, which if true I take to be good
mooo moooo moooo moooooo moo mooo, moooo mo mooo M mooo mo mo mooo

evidence that this harpooneer is stark mad, and I've no idea of sleeping
mooooooo mooo mooo mooooooooo mo moooo moo, moo M'mo mo mooo mo mooooooo

with a madman; and you, sir, YOU I mean, landlord, YOU, sir, by trying
mooo m mooooo; moo moo, moo, MOO M mooo, mooooooo, MOO, moo, mo mooooo

to induce me to do so knowingly, would thereby render yourself liable to
mo mooooo mo mo mo mo moooooooo, moooo moooooo mooooo mooooooo mooooo mo

a criminal prosecution."
m mooooooo moooooooooo."




"Wall," said the landlord, fetching a long breath, "that's a purty long
"Mooo," mooo moo mooooooo, mooooooo m mooo mooooo, "mooo'm m moooo mooo

sarmon for a chap that rips a little now and then. But be easy, be easy,
mooooo moo m mooo mooo mooo m mooooo moo moo mooo. Moo mo mooo, mo mooo,

this here harpooneer I have been tellin' you of has just arrived from
mooo mooo mooooooooo M mooo mooo mooooo' moo mo moo mooo moooooo mooo

the south seas, where he bought up a lot of 'balmed New Zealand heads
moo moooo mooo, moooo mo mooooo mo m moo mo 'mooooo Moo Moooooo moooo

(great curios, you know), and he's sold all on 'em but one, and that one
(moooo mooooo, moo mooo), moo mo'm mooo moo mo 'mo moo moo, moo mooo moo

he's trying to sell to-night, cause to-morrow's Sunday, and it would not
mo'm mooooo mo mooo mo-moooo, moooo mo-mooooo'm Mooooo, moo mo moooo moo

do to be sellin' human heads about the streets when folks is goin' to
mo mo mo mooooo' moooo moooo moooo moo moooooo mooo moooo mo mooo' mo

churches. He wanted to, last Sunday, but I stopped him just as he was
mooooooo. Mo mooooo mo, mooo Mooooo, moo M moooooo moo mooo mo mo moo

goin' out of the door with four heads strung on a string, for all the
mooo' moo mo moo mooo mooo mooo moooo mooooo mo m mooooo, moo moo moo

airth like a string of inions."
moooo mooo m mooooo mo mooooo."




This account cleared up the otherwise unaccountable mystery, and showed
Mooo moooooo moooooo mo moo moooooooo moooooooooooo moooooo, moo mooooo

that the landlord, after all, had had no idea of fooling me--but at
mooo moo mooooooo, moooo moo, moo moo mo mooo mo moooooo mo--moo mo

the same time what could I think of a harpooneer who stayed out of a
moo mooo mooo mooo moooo M moooo mo m mooooooooo moo mooooo moo mo m

Saturday night clean into the holy Sabbath, engaged in such a cannibal
Mooooooo moooo moooo mooo moo mooo Moooooo, moooooo mo mooo m mooooooo

business as selling the heads of dead idolators?
mooooooo mo moooooo moo moooo mo mooo moooooooo?




"Depend upon it, landlord, that harpooneer is a dangerous man."
"Mooooo mooo mo, mooooooo, mooo mooooooooo mo m moooooooo moo."




"He pays reg'lar," was the rejoinder. "But come, it's getting dreadful
"Mo mooo moo'moo," moo moo moooooooo. "Moo mooo, mo'm moooooo mooooooo

late, you had better be turning flukes--it's a nice bed; Sal and me
mooo, moo moo mooooo mo moooooo mooooo--mo'm m mooo moo; Moo moo mo

slept in that ere bed the night we were spliced. There's plenty of room
moooo mo mooo moo moo moo moooo mo mooo moooooo. Moooo'm mooooo mo mooo

for two to kick about in that bed; it's an almighty big bed that. Why,
moo moo mo mooo moooo mo mooo moo; mo'm mo mooooooo moo moo mooo. Moo,

afore we give it up, Sal used to put our Sam and little Johnny in the
moooo mo mooo mo mo, Moo mooo mo moo moo Moo moo mooooo Mooooo mo moo

foot of it. But I got a dreaming and sprawling about one night, and
mooo mo mo. Moo M moo m mooooooo moo moooooooo moooo moo moooo, moo

somehow, Sam got pitched on the floor, and came near breaking his arm.
moooooo, Moo moo moooooo mo moo moooo, moo mooo mooo mooooooo moo moo.

Arter that, Sal said it wouldn't do. Come along here, I'll give ye a
Moooo mooo, Moo mooo mo mooooo'm mo. Mooo moooo mooo, M'mo mooo mo m

glim in a jiffy;" and so saying he lighted a candle and held it towards
mooo mo m moooo;" moo mo mooooo mo moooooo m mooooo moo mooo mo moooooo

me, offering to lead the way. But I stood irresolute; when looking at a
mo, mooooooo mo mooo moo moo. Moo M moooo mooooooooo; mooo moooooo mo m

clock in the corner, he exclaimed "I vum it's Sunday--you won't see that
moooo mo moo mooooo, mo moooooooo "M moo mo'm Mooooo--moo moo'm moo mooo

harpooneer to-night; he's come to anchor somewhere--come along then; DO
mooooooooo mo-moooo; mo'm mooo mo mooooo moooooooo--mooo moooo mooo; MO

come; WON'T ye come?"
mooo; MOO'M mo mooo?"




I considered the matter a moment, and then up stairs we went, and I was
M mooooooooo moo mooooo m mooooo, moo mooo mo mooooo mo mooo, moo M moo

ushered into a small room, cold as a clam, and furnished, sure enough,
moooooo mooo m moooo mooo, mooo mo m mooo, moo moooooooo, mooo mooooo,

with a prodigious bed, almost big enough indeed for any four harpooneers
mooo m mooooooooo moo, mooooo moo mooooo mooooo moo moo mooo moooooooooo

to sleep abreast.
mo moooo moooooo.




"There," said the landlord, placing the candle on a crazy old sea chest
"Moooo," mooo moo mooooooo, moooooo moo mooooo mo m moooo moo moo moooo

that did double duty as a wash-stand and centre table; "there, make
mooo moo mooooo mooo mo m mooo-moooo moo mooooo moooo; "moooo, mooo

yourself comfortable now, and good night to ye." I turned round from
mooooooo moooooooooo moo, moo mooo moooo mo mo." M mooooo moooo mooo

eyeing the bed, but he had disappeared.
mooooo moo moo, moo mo moo moooooooooo.




Folding back the counterpane, I stooped over the bed. Though none of the
Moooooo mooo moo moooooooooo, M moooooo mooo moo moo. Mooooo mooo mo moo

most elegant, it yet stood the scrutiny tolerably well. I then glanced
mooo moooooo, mo moo moooo moo mooooooo moooooooo mooo. M mooo moooooo

round the room; and besides the bedstead and centre table, could see
moooo moo mooo; moo moooooo moo mooooooo moo mooooo moooo, moooo moo

no other furniture belonging to the place, but a rude shelf, the four
mo moooo moooooooo moooooooo mo moo moooo, moo m mooo moooo, moo mooo

walls, and a papered fireboard representing a man striking a whale. Of
moooo, moo m moooooo moooooooo mooooooooooo m moo mooooooo m moooo. Mo

things not properly belonging to the room, there was a hammock lashed
mooooo moo mooooooo moooooooo mo moo mooo, moooo moo m moooooo mooooo

up, and thrown upon the floor in one corner; also a large seaman's bag,
mo, moo mooooo mooo moo moooo mo moo mooooo; mooo m moooo mooooo'm moo,

containing the harpooneer's wardrobe, no doubt in lieu of a land trunk.
mooooooooo moo mooooooooo'm mooooooo, mo moooo mo mooo mo m mooo moooo.

Likewise, there was a parcel of outlandish bone fish hooks on the shelf
Mooooooo, moooo moo m mooooo mo mooooooooo mooo mooo moooo mo moo moooo

over the fire-place, and a tall harpoon standing at the head of the bed.
mooo moo mooo-moooo, moo m mooo moooooo mooooooo mo moo mooo mo moo moo.




But what is this on the chest? I took it up, and held it close to the
Moo mooo mo mooo mo moo moooo? M mooo mo mo, moo mooo mo moooo mo moo

light, and felt it, and smelt it, and tried every way possible to arrive
moooo, moo mooo mo, moo moooo mo, moo moooo moooo moo mooooooo mo mooooo

at some satisfactory conclusion concerning it. I can compare it to
mo mooo mooooooooooo mooooooooo mooooooooo mo. M moo moooooo mo mo

nothing but a large door mat, ornamented at the edges with little
moooooo moo m moooo mooo moo, mooooooooo mo moo moooo mooo mooooo

tinkling tags something like the stained porcupine quills round an
mooooooo mooo moooooooo mooo moo moooooo moooooooo mooooo moooo mo

Indian moccasin. There was a hole or slit in the middle of this mat,
Mooooo mooooooo. Moooo moo m mooo mo mooo mo moo mooooo mo mooo moo,

as you see the same in South American ponchos. But could it be possible
mo moo moo moo mooo mo Moooo Mooooooo moooooo. Moo moooo mo mo mooooooo

that any sober harpooneer would get into a door mat, and parade the
mooo moo moooo mooooooooo moooo moo mooo m mooo moo, moo mooooo moo

streets of any Christian town in that sort of guise? I put it on, to try
moooooo mo moo Moooooooo mooo mo mooo mooo mo moooo? M moo mo mo, mo moo

it, and it weighed me down like a hamper, being uncommonly shaggy and
mo, moo mo moooooo mo mooo mooo m mooooo, moooo mooooooooo mooooo moo

thick, and I thought a little damp, as though this mysterious harpooneer
moooo, moo M moooooo m mooooo mooo, mo mooooo mooo mooooooooo mooooooooo

had been wearing it of a rainy day. I went up in it to a bit of glass
moo mooo moooooo mo mo m moooo moo. M mooo mo mo mo mo m moo mo moooo

stuck against the wall, and I never saw such a sight in my life. I tore
moooo moooooo moo mooo, moo M moooo moo mooo m moooo mo mo mooo. M mooo

myself out of it in such a hurry that I gave myself a kink in the neck.
mooooo moo mo mo mo mooo m moooo mooo M mooo mooooo m mooo mo moo mooo.




I sat down on the side of the bed, and commenced thinking about this
M moo mooo mo moo mooo mo moo moo, moo moooooooo mooooooo moooo mooo

head-peddling harpooneer, and his door mat. After thinking some time on
mooo-mooooooo mooooooooo, moo moo mooo moo. Moooo mooooooo mooo mooo mo

the bed-side, I got up and took off my monkey jacket, and then stood in
moo moo-mooo, M moo mo moo mooo moo mo mooooo mooooo, moo mooo moooo mo

the middle of the room thinking. I then took off my coat, and thought
moo mooooo mo moo mooo mooooooo. M mooo mooo moo mo mooo, moo moooooo

a little more in my shirt sleeves. But beginning to feel very cold now,
m mooooo mooo mo mo moooo moooooo. Moo moooooooo mo mooo mooo mooo moo,

half undressed as I was, and remembering what the landlord said about
mooo moooooooo mo M moo, moo moooooooooo mooo moo mooooooo mooo moooo

the harpooneer's not coming home at all that night, it being so very
moo mooooooooo'm moo mooooo mooo mo moo mooo moooo, mo moooo mo mooo

late, I made no more ado, but jumped out of my pantaloons and boots, and
mooo, M mooo mo mooo moo, moo mooooo moo mo mo mooooooooo moo moooo, moo

then blowing out the light tumbled into bed, and commended myself to the
mooo moooooo moo moo moooo moooooo mooo moo, moo moooooooo mooooo mo moo

care of heaven.
mooo mo mooooo.




Whether that mattress was stuffed with corn-cobs or broken crockery,
Moooooo mooo mooooooo moo moooooo mooo mooo-mooo mo mooooo mooooooo,

there is no telling, but I rolled about a good deal, and could not sleep
moooo mo mo moooooo, moo M mooooo moooo m mooo mooo, moo moooo moo moooo

for a long time. At last I slid off into a light doze, and had pretty
moo m mooo mooo. Mo mooo M mooo moo mooo m moooo mooo, moo moo mooooo

nearly made a good offing towards the land of Nod, when I heard a heavy
mooooo mooo m mooo mooooo moooooo moo mooo mo Moo, mooo M moooo m moooo

footfall in the passage, and saw a glimmer of light come into the room
mooooooo mo moo moooooo, moo moo m moooooo mo moooo mooo mooo moo mooo

from under the door.
mooo moooo moo mooo.




Lord save me, thinks I, that must be the harpooneer, the infernal
Mooo mooo mo, mooooo M, mooo mooo mo moo mooooooooo, moo mooooooo

head-peddler. But I lay perfectly still, and resolved not to say a word
mooo-moooooo. Moo M moo moooooooo moooo, moo mooooooo moo mo moo m mooo

till spoken to. Holding a light in one hand, and that identical New
mooo mooooo mo. Moooooo m moooo mo moo mooo, moo mooo moooooooo Moo

Zealand head in the other, the stranger entered the room, and without
Moooooo mooo mo moo moooo, moo mooooooo moooooo moo mooo, moo moooooo

looking towards the bed, placed his candle a good way off from me on the
moooooo moooooo moo moo, mooooo moo mooooo m mooo moo moo mooo mo mo moo

floor in one corner, and then began working away at the knotted cords
moooo mo moo mooooo, moo mooo moooo moooooo mooo mo moo moooooo moooo

of the large bag I before spoke of as being in the room. I was all
mo moo moooo moo M mooooo moooo mo mo moooo mo moo mooo. M moo moo

eagerness to see his face, but he kept it averted for some time while
moooooooo mo moo moo mooo, moo mo mooo mo moooooo moo mooo mooo moooo

employed in unlacing the bag's mouth. This accomplished, however, he
mooooooo mo mooooooo moo moo'm moooo. Mooo mooooooooooo, moooooo, mo

turned round--when, good heavens! what a sight! Such a face! It was of
mooooo moooo--mooo, mooo moooooo! mooo m moooo! Mooo m mooo! Mo moo mo

a dark, purplish, yellow colour, here and there stuck over with large
m mooo, mooooooo, mooooo mooooo, mooo moo moooo moooo mooo mooo moooo

blackish looking squares. Yes, it's just as I thought, he's a terrible
mooooooo moooooo moooooo. Moo, mo'm mooo mo M moooooo, mo'm m mooooooo

bedfellow; he's been in a fight, got dreadfully cut, and here he is,
moooooooo; mo'm mooo mo m moooo, moo mooooooooo moo, moo mooo mo mo,

just from the surgeon. But at that moment he chanced to turn his face
mooo mooo moo moooooo. Moo mo mooo mooooo mo moooooo mo mooo moo mooo

so towards the light, that I plainly saw they could not be
mo moooooo moo moooo, mooo M moooooo moo mooo moooo moo mo

sticking-plasters at all, those black squares on his cheeks. They were
mooooooo-mooooooo mo moo, moooo moooo moooooo mo moo mooooo. Mooo mooo

stains of some sort or other. At first I knew not what to make of this;
mooooo mo mooo mooo mo moooo. Mo moooo M mooo moo mooo mo mooo mo mooo;

but soon an inkling of the truth occurred to me. I remembered a story of
moo mooo mo moooooo mo moo moooo mooooooo mo mo. M mooooooooo m moooo mo

a white man--a whaleman too--who, falling among the cannibals, had been
m moooo moo--m mooooooo moo--moo, moooooo moooo moo moooooooo, moo mooo

tattooed by them. I concluded that this harpooneer, in the course of his
mooooooo mo mooo. M moooooooo mooo mooo mooooooooo, mo moo mooooo mo moo

distant voyages, must have met with a similar adventure. And what is it,
moooooo moooooo, mooo mooo moo mooo m moooooo moooooooo. Moo mooo mo mo,

thought I, after all! It's only his outside; a man can be honest in any
moooooo M, moooo moo! Mo'm mooo moo moooooo; m moo moo mo mooooo mo moo

sort of skin. But then, what to make of his unearthly complexion, that
mooo mo mooo. Moo mooo, mooo mo mooo mo moo moooooooo mooooooooo, mooo

part of it, I mean, lying round about, and completely independent of the
mooo mo mo, M mooo, moooo moooo moooo, moo mooooooooo moooooooooo mo moo

squares of tattooing. To be sure, it might be nothing but a good coat of
moooooo mo moooooooo. Mo mo mooo, mo moooo mo moooooo moo m mooo mooo mo

tropical tanning; but I never heard of a hot sun's tanning a white man
mooooooo moooooo; moo M moooo moooo mo m moo moo'm moooooo m moooo moo

into a purplish yellow one. However, I had never been in the South Seas;
mooo m mooooooo mooooo moo. Moooooo, M moo moooo mooo mo moo Moooo Mooo;

and perhaps the sun there produced these extraordinary effects upon the
moo moooooo moo moo moooo mooooooo moooo moooooooooooo moooooo mooo moo

skin. Now, while all these ideas were passing through me like lightning,
mooo. Moo, moooo moo moooo moooo mooo moooooo moooooo mo mooo moooooooo,

this harpooneer never noticed me at all. But, after some difficulty
mooo mooooooooo moooo moooooo mo mo moo. Moo, moooo mooo mooooooooo

having opened his bag, he commenced fumbling in it, and presently pulled
mooooo mooooo moo moo, mo moooooooo mooooooo mo mo, moo moooooooo mooooo

out a sort of tomahawk, and a seal-skin wallet with the hair on. Placing
moo m mooo mo mooooooo, moo m mooo-mooo mooooo mooo moo mooo mo. Moooooo

these on the old chest in the middle of the room, he then took the New
moooo mo moo moo moooo mo moo mooooo mo moo mooo, mo mooo mooo moo Moo

Zealand head--a ghastly thing enough--and crammed it down into the bag.
Moooooo mooo--m moooooo moooo mooooo--moo moooooo mo mooo mooo moo moo.

He now took off his hat--a new beaver hat--when I came nigh singing out
Mo moo mooo moo moo moo--m moo mooooo moo--mooo M mooo mooo moooooo moo

with fresh surprise. There was no hair on his head--none to speak of at
mooo moooo mooooooo. Moooo moo mo mooo mo moo mooo--mooo mo moooo mo mo

least--nothing but a small scalp-knot twisted up on his forehead. His
moooo--moooooo moo m moooo moooo-mooo moooooo mo mo moo mooooooo. Moo

bald purplish head now looked for all the world like a mildewed skull.
mooo mooooooo mooo moo mooooo moo moo moo moooo mooo m mooooooo moooo.

Had not the stranger stood between me and the door, I would have bolted
Moo moo moo mooooooo moooo moooooo mo moo moo mooo, M moooo mooo mooooo

out of it quicker than ever I bolted a dinner.
moo mo mo moooooo mooo mooo M mooooo m mooooo.




Even as it was, I thought something of slipping out of the window, but
Mooo mo mo moo, M moooooo moooooooo mo mooooooo moo mo moo mooooo, moo

it was the second floor back. I am no coward, but what to make of
mo moo moo mooooo moooo mooo. M mo mo mooooo, moo mooo mo mooo mo

this head-peddling purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension.
mooo mooo-mooooooo mooooo mooooo mooooooooo mooooo mo moooooooooooo.

Ignorance is the parent of fear, and being completely nonplussed and
Moooooooo mo moo mooooo mo mooo, moo moooo mooooooooo mooooooooo moo

confounded about the stranger, I confess I was now as much afraid of him
mooooooooo moooo moo mooooooo, M moooooo M moo moo mo mooo mooooo mo moo

as if it was the devil himself who had thus broken into my room at
mo mo mo moo moo moooo moooooo moo moo mooo mooooo mooo mo mooo mo

the dead of night. In fact, I was so afraid of him that I was not
moo mooo mo moooo. Mo mooo, M moo mo mooooo mo moo mooo M moo moo

game enough just then to address him, and demand a satisfactory answer
mooo mooooo mooo mooo mo moooooo moo, moo mooooo m mooooooooooo mooooo

concerning what seemed inexplicable in him.
mooooooooo mooo mooooo mooooooooooo mo moo.




Meanwhile, he continued the business of undressing, and at last showed
Moooooooo, mo moooooooo moo mooooooo mo mooooooooo, moo mo mooo mooooo

his chest and arms. As I live, these covered parts of him were checkered
moo moooo moo mooo. Mo M mooo, moooo moooooo moooo mo moo mooo moooooooo

with the same squares as his face; his back, too, was all over the same
mooo moo mooo moooooo mo moo mooo; moo mooo, moo, moo moo mooo moo mooo

dark squares; he seemed to have been in a Thirty Years' War, and just
mooo moooooo; mo mooooo mo mooo mooo mo m Mooooo Moooo' Moo, moo mooo

escaped from it with a sticking-plaster shirt. Still more, his very
moooooo mooo mo mooo m mooooooo-moooooo moooo. Moooo mooo, moo mooo

legs were marked, as if a parcel of dark green frogs were running up
mooo mooo mooooo, mo mo m mooooo mo mooo moooo moooo mooo moooooo mo

the trunks of young palms. It was now quite plain that he must be some
moo mooooo mo moooo moooo. Mo moo moo moooo moooo mooo mo mooo mo mooo

abominable savage or other shipped aboard of a whaleman in the South
mooooooooo mooooo mo moooo moooooo mooooo mo m mooooooo mo moo Moooo

Seas, and so landed in this Christian country. I quaked to think of it.
Mooo, moo mo mooooo mo mooo Moooooooo moooooo. M mooooo mo moooo mo mo.

A peddler of heads too--perhaps the heads of his own brothers. He might
M moooooo mo moooo moo--moooooo moo moooo mo moo moo mooooooo. Mo moooo

take a fancy to mine--heavens! look at that tomahawk!
mooo m moooo mo mooo--moooooo! mooo mo mooo mooooooo!




But there was no time for shuddering, for now the savage went about
Moo moooo moo mo mooo moo mooooooooo, moo moo moo mooooo mooo moooo

something that completely fascinated my attention, and convinced me that
moooooooo mooo mooooooooo mooooooooo mo moooooooo, moo moooooooo mo mooo

he must indeed be a heathen. Going to his heavy grego, or wrapall, or
mo mooo mooooo mo m moooooo. Moooo mo moo moooo moooo, mo moooooo, mo

dreadnaught, which he had previously hung on a chair, he fumbled in the
moooooooooo, moooo mo moo mooooooooo mooo mo m moooo, mo moooooo mo moo

pockets, and produced at length a curious little deformed image with
moooooo, moo mooooooo mo mooooo m moooooo mooooo mooooooo moooo mooo

a hunch on its back, and exactly the colour of a three days' old Congo
m moooo mo moo mooo, moo moooooo moo mooooo mo m moooo mooo' moo Moooo

baby. Remembering the embalmed head, at first I almost thought that
mooo. Moooooooooo moo mooooooo mooo, mo moooo M mooooo moooooo mooo

this black manikin was a real baby preserved in some similar manner. But
mooo moooo moooooo moo m mooo mooo moooooooo mo mooo moooooo mooooo. Moo

seeing that it was not at all limber, and that it glistened a good deal
mooooo mooo mo moo moo mo moo mooooo, moo mooo mo moooooooo m mooo mooo

like polished ebony, I concluded that it must be nothing but a wooden
mooo mooooooo moooo, M moooooooo mooo mo mooo mo moooooo moo m mooooo

idol, which indeed it proved to be. For now the savage goes up to the
mooo, moooo mooooo mo mooooo mo mo. Moo moo moo mooooo mooo mo mo moo

empty fire-place, and removing the papered fire-board, sets up this
moooo mooo-moooo, moo mooooooo moo moooooo mooo-moooo, mooo mo mooo

little hunch-backed image, like a tenpin, between the andirons. The
mooooo moooo-mooooo moooo, mooo m mooooo, moooooo moo mooooooo. Moo

chimney jambs and all the bricks inside were very sooty, so that I
moooooo moooo moo moo moo mooooo mooooo mooo mooo moooo, mo mooo M

thought this fire-place made a very appropriate little shrine or chapel
moooooo mooo mooo-moooo mooo m mooo moooooooooo mooooo mooooo mo mooooo

for his Congo idol.
moo moo Moooo mooo.




I now screwed my eyes hard towards the half hidden image, feeling but
M moo moooooo mo mooo mooo moooooo moo mooo mooooo moooo, moooooo moo

ill at ease meantime--to see what was next to follow. First he takes
moo mo mooo mooooooo--mo moo mooo moo mooo mo mooooo. Moooo mo moooo

about a double handful of shavings out of his grego pocket, and places
moooo m mooooo moooooo mo mooooooo moo mo moo moooo mooooo, moo mooooo

them carefully before the idol; then laying a bit of ship biscuit on
mooo moooooooo mooooo moo mooo; mooo mooooo m moo mo mooo moooooo mo

top and applying the flame from the lamp, he kindled the shavings into
moo moo mooooooo moo moooo mooo moo mooo, mo moooooo moo mooooooo mooo

a sacrificial blaze. Presently, after many hasty snatches into the fire,
m moooooooooo moooo. Moooooooo, moooo mooo moooo mooooooo mooo moo mooo,

and still hastier withdrawals of his fingers (whereby he seemed to be
moo moooo moooooo moooooooooo mo moo moooooo (moooooo mo mooooo mo mo

scorching them badly), he at last succeeded in drawing out the biscuit;
moooooooo mooo moooo), mo mo mooo moooooooo mo moooooo moo moo moooooo;

then blowing off the heat and ashes a little, he made a polite offer of
mooo moooooo moo moo mooo moo moooo m mooooo, mo mooo m mooooo moooo mo

it to the little negro. But the little devil did not seem to fancy such
mo mo moo mooooo moooo. Moo moo mooooo moooo moo moo mooo mo moooo mooo

dry sort of fare at all; he never moved his lips. All these strange
moo mooo mo mooo mo moo; mo moooo moooo moo mooo. Moo moooo moooooo

antics were accompanied by still stranger guttural noises from the
mooooo mooo moooooooooo mo moooo mooooooo mooooooo mooooo mooo moo

devotee, who seemed to be praying in a sing-song or else singing some
moooooo, moo mooooo mo mo moooooo mo m mooo-mooo mo mooo moooooo mooo

pagan psalmody or other, during which his face twitched about in the
moooo mooooooo mo moooo, mooooo moooo moo mooo mooooooo moooo mo moo

most unnatural manner. At last extinguishing the fire, he took the idol
mooo moooooooo mooooo. Mo mooo moooooooooooo moo mooo, mo mooo moo mooo

up very unceremoniously, and bagged it again in his grego pocket as
mo mooo moooooooooooooo, moo mooooo mo moooo mo moo moooo mooooo mo

carelessly as if he were a sportsman bagging a dead woodcock.
mooooooooo mo mo mo mooo m moooooooo moooooo m mooo mooooooo.




All these queer proceedings increased my uncomfortableness, and
Moo moooo moooo moooooooooo moooooooo mo moooooooooooooooo, moo

seeing him now exhibiting strong symptoms of concluding his business
mooooo moo moo mooooooooo mooooo mooooooo mo mooooooooo moo mooooooo

operations, and jumping into bed with me, I thought it was high time,
mooooooooo, moo moooooo mooo moo mooo mo, M moooooo mo moo mooo mooo,

now or never, before the light was put out, to break the spell in which
moo mo moooo, mooooo moo moooo moo moo moo, mo moooo moo moooo mo moooo

I had so long been bound.
M moo mo mooo mooo moooo.




But the interval I spent in deliberating what to say, was a fatal one.
Moo moo mooooooo M moooo mo mooooooooooo mooo mo moo, moo m moooo moo.

Taking up his tomahawk from the table, he examined the head of it for an
Mooooo mo moo mooooooo mooo moo moooo, mo mooooooo moo mooo mo mo moo mo

instant, and then holding it to the light, with his mouth at the handle,
moooooo, moo mooo moooooo mo mo moo moooo, mooo moo moooo mo moo mooooo,

he puffed out great clouds of tobacco smoke. The next moment the light
mo mooooo moo moooo mooooo mo moooooo moooo. Moo mooo mooooo moo moooo

was extinguished, and this wild cannibal, tomahawk between his teeth,
moo mooooooooooo, moo mooo mooo mooooooo, mooooooo moooooo moo moooo,

sprang into bed with me. I sang out, I could not help it now; and giving
mooooo mooo moo mooo mo. M mooo moo, M moooo moo mooo mo moo; moo mooooo

a sudden grunt of astonishment he began feeling me.
m mooooo moooo mo mooooooooooo mo moooo moooooo mo.




Stammering out something, I knew not what, I rolled away from him
Mooooooooo moo moooooooo, M mooo moo mooo, M mooooo mooo mooo moo

against the wall, and then conjured him, whoever or whatever he might
moooooo moo mooo, moo mooo mooooooo moo, moooooo mo mooooooo mo moooo

be, to keep quiet, and let me get up and light the lamp again. But his
mo, mo mooo moooo, moo moo mo moo mo moo moooo moo mooo moooo. Moo moo

guttural responses satisfied me at once that he but ill comprehended my
mooooooo moooooooo moooooooo mo mo mooo mooo mo moo moo mooooooooooo mo

meaning.
moooooo.




"Who-e debel you?"--he at last said--"you no speak-e, dam-me, I kill-e."
"Moo-m moooo moo?"--mo mo mooo mooo--"moo mo moooo-m, moo-mo, M mooo-m."

And so saying the lighted tomahawk began flourishing about me in the
Moo mo mooooo moo moooooo mooooooo moooo moooooooooo moooo mo mo moo

dark.
mooo.




"Landlord, for God's sake, Peter Coffin!" shouted I. "Landlord! Watch!
"Mooooooo, moo Moo'm mooo, Moooo Mooooo!" moooooo M. "Mooooooo! Moooo!

Coffin! Angels! save me!"
Mooooo! Mooooo! mooo mo!"




"Speak-e! tell-ee me who-ee be, or dam-me, I kill-e!" again growled the
"Moooo-m! mooo-mo mo moo-mo mo, mo moo-mo, M mooo-m!" moooo moooooo moo

cannibal, while his horrid flourishings of the tomahawk scattered the
mooooooo, moooo moo mooooo mooooooooooo mo moo mooooooo moooooooo moo

hot tobacco ashes about me till I thought my linen would get on fire.
moo moooooo moooo moooo mo mooo M moooooo mo moooo moooo moo mo mooo.

But thank heaven, at that moment the landlord came into the room light
Moo moooo mooooo, mo mooo mooooo moo mooooooo mooo mooo moo mooo moooo

in hand, and leaping from the bed I ran up to him.
mo mooo, moo moooooo mooo moo moo M moo mo mo moo.




"Don't be afraid now," said he, grinning again, "Queequeg here wouldn't
"Moo'm mo mooooo moo," mooo mo, mooooooo moooo, "Mooooooo mooo mooooo'm

harm a hair of your head."
mooo m mooo mo mooo mooo."




"Stop your grinning," shouted I, "and why didn't you tell me that that
"Mooo mooo mooooooo," moooooo M, "moo moo mooo'm moo mooo mo mooo mooo

infernal harpooneer was a cannibal?"
mooooooo mooooooooo moo m mooooooo?"




"I thought ye know'd it;--didn't I tell ye, he was a peddlin' heads
"M moooooo mo mooo'm mo;--mooo'm M mooo mo, mo moo m moooooo' moooo

around town?--but turn flukes again and go to sleep. Queequeg, look
mooooo mooo?--moo mooo mooooo moooo moo mo mo moooo. Mooooooo, mooo

here--you sabbee me, I sabbee--you this man sleepe you--you sabbee?"
mooo--moo mooooo mo, M mooooo--moo mooo moo mooooo moo--moo mooooo?"




"Me sabbee plenty"--grunted Queequeg, puffing away at his pipe and
"Mo mooooo mooooo"--moooooo Mooooooo, moooooo mooo mo moo mooo moo

sitting up in bed.
moooooo mo mo moo.




"You gettee in," he added, motioning to me with his tomahawk, and
"Moo mooooo mo," mo moooo, moooooooo mo mo mooo moo mooooooo, moo

throwing the clothes to one side. He really did this in not only a civil
mooooooo moo moooooo mo moo mooo. Mo mooooo moo mooo mo moo mooo m moooo

but a really kind and charitable way. I stood looking at him a moment.
moo m mooooo mooo moo mooooooooo moo. M moooo moooooo mo moo m mooooo.

For all his tattooings he was on the whole a clean, comely looking
Moo moo moo mooooooooo mo moo mo moo moooo m moooo, mooooo moooooo

cannibal. What's all this fuss I have been making about, thought I to
mooooooo. Mooo'm moo mooo mooo M mooo mooo mooooo moooo, moooooo M mo

myself--the man's a human being just as I am: he has just as much reason
mooooo--moo moo'm m moooo moooo mooo mo M mo: mo moo mooo mo mooo mooooo

to fear me, as I have to be afraid of him. Better sleep with a sober
mo mooo mo, mo M mooo mo mo mooooo mo moo. Mooooo moooo mooo m moooo

cannibal than a drunken Christian.
mooooooo mooo m moooooo Moooooooo.




"Landlord," said I, "tell him to stash his tomahawk there, or pipe, or
"Mooooooo," mooo M, "mooo moo mo moooo moo mooooooo moooo, mo mooo, mo

whatever you call it; tell him to stop smoking, in short, and I will
mooooooo moo mooo mo; mooo moo mo mooo moooooo, mo moooo, moo M mooo

turn in with him. But I don't fancy having a man smoking in bed with me.
mooo mo mooo moo. Moo M moo'm moooo mooooo m moo moooooo mo moo mooo mo.

It's dangerous. Besides, I ain't insured."
Mo'm moooooooo. Moooooo, M moo'm moooooo."




This being told to Queequeg, he at once complied, and again politely
Mooo moooo mooo mo Mooooooo, mo mo mooo mooooooo, moo moooo mooooooo

motioned me to get into bed--rolling over to one side as much as to
mooooooo mo mo moo mooo moo--moooooo mooo mo moo mooo mo mooo mo mo

say--"I won't touch a leg of ye."
moo--"M moo'm moooo m moo mo mo."




"Good night, landlord," said I, "you may go."
"Mooo moooo, mooooooo," mooo M, "moo moo mo."




I turned in, and never slept better in my life.
M mooooo mo, moo moooo moooo mooooo mo mo mooo.










CHAPTER 4. The Counterpane.
MOOOOOO m. Moo Moooooooooo.







Upon waking next morning about daylight, I found Queequeg's arm thrown
Mooo mooooo mooo moooooo moooo mooooooo, M moooo Mooooooo'm moo mooooo

over me in the most loving and affectionate manner. You had almost
mooo mo mo moo mooo mooooo moo mooooooooooo mooooo. Moo moo mooooo

thought I had been his wife. The counterpane was of patchwork, full of
moooooo M moo mooo moo mooo. Moo moooooooooo moo mo moooooooo, mooo mo

odd little parti-coloured squares and triangles; and this arm of his
moo mooooo moooo-mooooooo moooooo moo moooooooo; moo mooo moo mo moo

tattooed all over with an interminable Cretan labyrinth of a figure,
mooooooo moo mooo mooo mo mooooooooooo Mooooo moooooooo mo m mooooo,

no two parts of which were of one precise shade--owing I suppose to
mo moo moooo mo moooo mooo mo moo moooooo moooo--moooo M moooooo mo

his keeping his arm at sea unmethodically in sun and shade, his shirt
moo moooooo moo moo mo moo mooooooooooooo mo moo moo moooo, moo moooo

sleeves irregularly rolled up at various times--this same arm of his, I
moooooo moooooooooo mooooo mo mo moooooo moooo--mooo mooo moo mo moo, M

say, looked for all the world like a strip of that same patchwork quilt.
moo, mooooo moo moo moo moooo mooo m moooo mo mooo mooo moooooooo moooo.

Indeed, partly lying on it as the arm did when I first awoke, I could
Mooooo, mooooo moooo mo mo mo moo moo moo mooo M moooo moooo, M moooo

hardly tell it from the quilt, they so blended their hues together; and
mooooo mooo mo mooo moo moooo, mooo mo moooooo moooo mooo mooooooo; moo

it was only by the sense of weight and pressure that I could tell that
mo moo mooo mo moo moooo mo mooooo moo mooooooo mooo M moooo mooo mooo

Queequeg was hugging me.
Mooooooo moo moooooo mo.




My sensations were strange. Let me try to explain them. When I was a
Mo mooooooooo mooo moooooo. Moo mo moo mo moooooo mooo. Mooo M moo m

child, I well remember a somewhat similar circumstance that befell me;
moooo, M mooo mooooooo m mooooooo moooooo mooooooooooo mooo mooooo mo;

whether it was a reality or a dream, I never could entirely settle.
moooooo mo moo m moooooo mo m moooo, M moooo moooo mooooooo mooooo.

The circumstance was this. I had been cutting up some caper or other--I
Moo mooooooooooo moo mooo. M moo mooo moooooo mo mooo moooo mo moooo--M

think it was trying to crawl up the chimney, as I had seen a little
moooo mo moo mooooo mo moooo mo moo moooooo, mo M moo mooo m mooooo

sweep do a few days previous; and my stepmother who, somehow or other,
moooo mo m moo mooo mooooooo; moo mo mooooooooo moo, moooooo mo moooo,

was all the time whipping me, or sending me to bed supperless,--my
moo moo moo mooo mooooooo mo, mo moooooo mo mo moo mooooooooo,--mo

mother dragged me by the legs out of the chimney and packed me off to
mooooo moooooo mo mo moo mooo moo mo moo moooooo moo mooooo mo moo mo

bed, though it was only two o'clock in the afternoon of the 21st June,
moo, mooooo mo moo mooo moo m'moooo mo moo moooooooo mo moo mooo Mooo,

the longest day in the year in our hemisphere. I felt dreadfully. But
moo moooooo moo mo moo mooo mo moo mooooooooo. M mooo mooooooooo. Moo

there was no help for it, so up stairs I went to my little room in the
moooo moo mo mooo moo mo, mo mo mooooo M mooo mo mo mooooo mooo mo moo

third floor, undressed myself as slowly as possible so as to kill time,
moooo moooo, moooooooo mooooo mo mooooo mo mooooooo mo mo mo mooo mooo,

and with a bitter sigh got between the sheets.
moo mooo m mooooo mooo moo moooooo moo mooooo.




I lay there dismally calculating that sixteen entire hours must elapse
M moo moooo mooooooo moooooooooo mooo moooooo mooooo moooo mooo mooooo

before I could hope for a resurrection. Sixteen hours in bed! the
mooooo M moooo mooo moo m mooooooooooo. Moooooo moooo mo moo! moo

small of my back ached to think of it. And it was so light too; the
moooo mo mo mooo moooo mo moooo mo mo. Moo mo moo mo moooo moo; moo

sun shining in at the window, and a great rattling of coaches in the
moo moooooo mo mo moo mooooo, moo m moooo mooooooo mo moooooo mo moo

streets, and the sound of gay voices all over the house. I felt worse
moooooo, moo moo moooo mo moo mooooo moo mooo moo moooo. M mooo moooo

and worse--at last I got up, dressed, and softly going down in my
moo moooo--mo mooo M moo mo, moooooo, moo mooooo moooo mooo mo mo

stockinged feet, sought out my stepmother, and suddenly threw myself
mooooooooo mooo, mooooo moo mo mooooooooo, moo mooooooo moooo mooooo

at her feet, beseeching her as a particular favour to give me a good
mo moo mooo, mooooooooo moo mo m mooooooooo mooooo mo mooo mo m mooo

slippering for my misbehaviour; anything indeed but condemning me to lie
mooooooooo moo mo mooooooooooo; mooooooo mooooo moo mooooooooo mo mo moo

abed such an unendurable length of time. But she was the best and most
mooo mooo mo moooooooooo mooooo mo mooo. Moo moo moo moo mooo moo mooo

conscientious of stepmothers, and back I had to go to my room. For
moooooooooooo mo moooooooooo, moo mooo M moo mo mo mo mo mooo. Moo

several hours I lay there broad awake, feeling a great deal worse than I
moooooo moooo M moo moooo moooo moooo, moooooo m moooo mooo moooo mooo M

have ever done since, even from the greatest subsequent misfortunes. At
mooo mooo mooo moooo, mooo mooo moo mooooooo mooooooooo moooooooooo. Mo

last I must have fallen into a troubled nightmare of a doze; and slowly
mooo M mooo mooo mooooo mooo m mooooooo moooooooo mo m mooo; moo mooooo

waking from it--half steeped in dreams--I opened my eyes, and the before
mooooo mooo mo--mooo moooooo mo mooooo--M mooooo mo mooo, moo moo mooooo

sun-lit room was now wrapped in outer darkness. Instantly I felt a shock
moo-moo mooo moo moo moooooo mo moooo mooooooo. Moooooooo M mooo m moooo

running through all my frame; nothing was to be seen, and nothing was
moooooo moooooo moo mo moooo; moooooo moo mo mo mooo, moo moooooo moo

to be heard; but a supernatural hand seemed placed in mine. My arm hung
mo mo moooo; moo m mooooooooooo mooo mooooo mooooo mo mooo. Mo moo mooo

over the counterpane, and the nameless, unimaginable, silent form
mooo moo moooooooooo, moo moo mooooooo, mooooooooooo, mooooo mooo

or phantom, to which the hand belonged, seemed closely seated by my
mo moooooo, mo moooo moo mooo mooooooo, mooooo moooooo mooooo mo mo

bed-side. For what seemed ages piled on ages, I lay there, frozen with
moo-mooo. Moo mooo mooooo mooo moooo mo mooo, M moo moooo, mooooo mooo

the most awful fears, not daring to drag away my hand; yet ever thinking
moo mooo moooo moooo, moo mooooo mo mooo mooo mo mooo; moo mooo mooooooo

that if I could but stir it one single inch, the horrid spell would be
mooo mo M moooo moo mooo mo moo mooooo mooo, moo mooooo moooo moooo mo

broken. I knew not how this consciousness at last glided away from me;
mooooo. M mooo moo moo mooo moooooooooooo mo mooo mooooo mooo mooo mo;

but waking in the morning, I shudderingly remembered it all, and for
moo mooooo mo moo moooooo, M mooooooooooo mooooooooo mo moo, moo moo

days and weeks and months afterwards I lost myself in confounding
mooo moo moooo moo mooooo mooooooooo M mooo mooooo mo moooooooooo

attempts to explain the mystery. Nay, to this very hour, I often puzzle
mooooooo mo moooooo moo moooooo. Moo, mo mooo mooo mooo, M moooo mooooo

myself with it.
mooooo mooo mo.




Now, take away the awful fear, and my sensations at feeling the
Moo, mooo mooo moo moooo mooo, moo mo mooooooooo mo moooooo moo

supernatural hand in mine were very similar, in their strangeness, to
mooooooooooo mooo mo mooo mooo mooo moooooo, mo moooo moooooooooo, mo

those which I experienced on waking up and seeing Queequeg's pagan
moooo moooo M moooooooooo mo mooooo mo moo mooooo Mooooooo'm moooo

arm thrown round me. But at length all the past night's events soberly
moo mooooo moooo mo. Moo mo mooooo moo moo mooo moooo'm mooooo moooooo

recurred, one by one, in fixed reality, and then I lay only alive to
mooooooo, moo mo moo, mo moooo moooooo, moo mooo M moo mooo moooo mo

the comical predicament. For though I tried to move his arm--unlock his
moo moooooo moooooooooo. Moo mooooo M moooo mo mooo moo moo--mooooo moo

bridegroom clasp--yet, sleeping as he was, he still hugged me tightly,
mooooooooo moooo--moo, mooooooo mo mo moo, mo moooo mooooo mo moooooo,

as though naught but death should part us twain. I now strove to rouse
mo mooooo mooooo moo moooo mooooo mooo mo moooo. M moo mooooo mo moooo

him--"Queequeg!"--but his only answer was a snore. I then rolled over,
moo--"Mooooooo!"--moo moo mooo mooooo moo m moooo. M mooo mooooo mooo,

my neck feeling as if it were in a horse-collar; and suddenly felt a
mo mooo moooooo mo mo mo mooo mo m moooo-mooooo; moo mooooooo mooo m

slight scratch. Throwing aside the counterpane, there lay the tomahawk
mooooo moooooo. Mooooooo moooo moo moooooooooo, moooo moo moo mooooooo

sleeping by the savage's side, as if it were a hatchet-faced baby. A
mooooooo mo moo mooooo'm mooo, mo mo mo mooo m moooooo-moooo mooo. M

pretty pickle, truly, thought I; abed here in a strange house in the
mooooo mooooo, moooo, moooooo M; mooo mooo mo m moooooo moooo mo moo

broad day, with a cannibal and a tomahawk! "Queequeg!--in the name of
moooo moo, mooo m mooooooo moo m mooooooo! "Mooooooo!--mo moo mooo mo

goodness, Queequeg, wake!" At length, by dint of much wriggling, and
mooooooo, Mooooooo, mooo!" Mo mooooo, mo mooo mo mooo moooooooo, moo

loud and incessant expostulations upon the unbecomingness of his
mooo moo moooooooo mooooooooooooo mooo moo mooooooooooooo mo moo

hugging a fellow male in that matrimonial sort of style, I succeeded in
moooooo m mooooo mooo mo mooo moooooooooo mooo mo moooo, M moooooooo mo

extracting a grunt; and presently, he drew back his arm, shook himself
mooooooooo m moooo; moo moooooooo, mo mooo mooo moo moo, moooo moooooo

all over like a Newfoundland dog just from the water, and sat up in bed,
moo mooo mooo m Mooooooooooo moo mooo mooo moo moooo, moo moo mo mo moo,

stiff as a pike-staff, looking at me, and rubbing his eyes as if he
moooo mo m mooo-moooo, moooooo mo mo, moo moooooo moo mooo mo mo mo

did not altogether remember how I came to be there, though a dim
moo moo mooooooooo mooooooo moo M mooo mo mo moooo, mooooo m moo

consciousness of knowing something about me seemed slowly dawning over
moooooooooooo mo moooooo moooooooo moooo mo mooooo mooooo moooooo mooo

him. Meanwhile, I lay quietly eyeing him, having no serious misgivings
moo. Moooooooo, M moo moooooo mooooo moo, mooooo mo moooooo mooooooooo

now, and bent upon narrowly observing so curious a creature. When, at
moo, moo mooo mooo mooooooo moooooooo mo moooooo m mooooooo. Mooo, mo

last, his mind seemed made up touching the character of his bedfellow,
mooo, moo mooo mooooo mooo mo mooooooo moo moooooooo mo moo moooooooo,

and he became, as it were, reconciled to the fact; he jumped out upon
moo mo mooooo, mo mo mooo, mooooooooo mo moo mooo; mo mooooo moo mooo

the floor, and by certain signs and sounds gave me to understand that,
moo moooo, moo mo moooooo moooo moo mooooo mooo mo mo mooooooooo mooo,

if it pleased me, he would dress first and then leave me to dress
mo mo moooooo mo, mo moooo moooo moooo moo mooo moooo mo mo moooo

afterwards, leaving the whole apartment to myself. Thinks I, Queequeg,
mooooooooo, moooooo moo moooo moooooooo mo mooooo. Mooooo M, Mooooooo,

under the circumstances, this is a very civilized overture; but, the
moooo moo moooooooooooo, mooo mo m mooo moooooooo mooooooo; moo, moo

truth is, these savages have an innate sense of delicacy, say what
moooo mo, moooo moooooo mooo mo mooooo moooo mo mooooooo, moo mooo

you will; it is marvellous how essentially polite they are. I pay this
moo mooo; mo mo mooooooooo moo moooooooooo mooooo mooo moo. M moo mooo

particular compliment to Queequeg, because he treated me with so much
mooooooooo mooooooooo mo Mooooooo, moooooo mo moooooo mo mooo mo mooo

civility and consideration, while I was guilty of great rudeness;
mooooooo moo moooooooooooo, moooo M moo mooooo mo moooo mooooooo;

staring at him from the bed, and watching all his toilette motions; for
moooooo mo moo mooo moo moo, moo mooooooo moo moo mooooooo moooooo; moo

the time my curiosity getting the better of my breeding. Nevertheless,
moo mooo mo moooooooo moooooo moo mooooo mo mo mooooooo. Mooooooooooo,

a man like Queequeg you don't see every day, he and his ways were well
m moo mooo Mooooooo moo moo'm moo moooo moo, mo moo moo mooo mooo mooo

worth unusual regarding.
moooo moooooo moooooooo.




He commenced dressing at top by donning his beaver hat, a very tall one,
Mo moooooooo mooooooo mo moo mo moooooo moo mooooo moo, m mooo mooo moo,

by the by, and then--still minus his trowsers--he hunted up his boots.
mo moo mo, moo mooo--moooo moooo moo mooooooo--mo mooooo mo moo moooo.

What under the heavens he did it for, I cannot tell, but his next
Mooo moooo moo moooooo mo moo mo moo, M mooooo mooo, moo moo mooo

movement was to crush himself--boots in hand, and hat on--under the bed;
mooooooo moo mo moooo moooooo--moooo mo mooo, moo moo mo--moooo moo moo;

when, from sundry violent gaspings and strainings, I inferred he was
mooo, mooo mooooo moooooo mooooooo moo mooooooooo, M mooooooo mo moo

hard at work booting himself; though by no law of propriety that I ever
mooo mo mooo moooooo moooooo; mooooo mo mo moo mo moooooooo mooo M mooo

heard of, is any man required to be private when putting on his
moooo mo, mo moo moo mooooooo mo mo moooooo mooo moooooo mo moo

boots. But Queequeg, do you see, was a creature in the transition
moooo. Moo Mooooooo, mo moo moo, moo m mooooooo mo moo mooooooooo

stage--neither caterpillar nor butterfly. He was just enough civilized
moooo--moooooo moooooooooo moo moooooooo. Mo moo mooo mooooo moooooooo

to show off his outlandishness in the strangest possible manners. His
mo mooo moo moo mooooooooooooo mo moo moooooooo mooooooo moooooo. Moo

education was not yet completed. He was an undergraduate. If he had not
moooooooo moo moo moo moooooooo. Mo moo mo moooooooooooo. Mo mo moo moo

been a small degree civilized, he very probably would not have troubled
mooo m moooo mooooo moooooooo, mo mooo mooooooo moooo moo mooo mooooooo

himself with boots at all; but then, if he had not been still a savage,
moooooo mooo moooo mo moo; moo mooo, mo mo moo moo mooo moooo m mooooo,

he never would have dreamt of getting under the bed to put them on. At
mo moooo moooo mooo mooooo mo moooooo moooo moo moo mo moo mooo mo. Mo

last, he emerged with his hat very much dented and crushed down over his
mooo, mo moooooo mooo moo moo mooo mooo mooooo moo moooooo mooo mooo moo

eyes, and began creaking and limping about the room, as if, not
mooo, moo moooo mooooooo moo moooooo moooo moo mooo, mo mo, moo

being much accustomed to boots, his pair of damp, wrinkled cowhide
moooo mooo mooooooooo mo moooo, moo mooo mo mooo, mooooooo moooooo

ones--probably not made to order either--rather pinched and tormented
mooo--mooooooo moo mooo mo moooo mooooo--mooooo moooooo moo moooooooo

him at the first go off of a bitter cold morning.
moo mo moo moooo mo moo mo m mooooo mooo moooooo.




Seeing, now, that there were no curtains to the window, and that the
Mooooo, moo, mooo moooo mooo mo mooooooo mo moo mooooo, moo mooo moo

street being very narrow, the house opposite commanded a plain view
mooooo moooo mooo mooooo, moo moooo mooooooo moooooooo m moooo mooo

into the room, and observing more and more the indecorous figure that
mooo moo mooo, moo moooooooo mooo moo mooo moo mooooooooo mooooo mooo

Queequeg made, staving about with little else but his hat and boots on;
Mooooooo mooo, moooooo moooo mooo mooooo mooo moo moo moo moo moooo mo;

I begged him as well as I could, to accelerate his toilet somewhat,
M mooooo moo mo mooo mo M moooo, mo mooooooooo moo mooooo mooooooo,

and particularly to get into his pantaloons as soon as possible. He
moo mooooooooooo mo moo mooo moo mooooooooo mo mooo mo mooooooo. Mo

complied, and then proceeded to wash himself. At that time in the
mooooooo, moo mooo moooooooo mo mooo moooooo. Mo mooo mooo mo moo

morning any Christian would have washed his face; but Queequeg, to
moooooo moo Moooooooo moooo mooo mooooo moo mooo; moo Mooooooo, mo

my amazement, contented himself with restricting his ablutions to his
mo moooooooo, moooooooo moooooo mooo moooooooooo moo moooooooo mo moo

chest, arms, and hands. He then donned his waistcoat, and taking up a
moooo, mooo, moo moooo. Mo mooo mooooo moo moooooooo, moo mooooo mo m

piece of hard soap on the wash-stand centre table, dipped it into water
moooo mo mooo mooo mo moo mooo-moooo mooooo moooo, mooooo mo mooo moooo

and commenced lathering his face. I was watching to see where he kept
moo moooooooo moooooooo moo mooo. M moo mooooooo mo moo moooo mo mooo

his razor, when lo and behold, he takes the harpoon from the bed corner,
moo moooo, mooo mo moo mooooo, mo moooo moo moooooo mooo moo moo mooooo,

slips out the long wooden stock, unsheathes the head, whets it a little
moooo moo moo mooo mooooo moooo, mooooooooo moo mooo, moooo mo m mooooo

on his boot, and striding up to the bit of mirror against the wall,
mo moo mooo, moo mooooooo mo mo moo moo mo mooooo moooooo moo mooo,

begins a vigorous scraping, or rather harpooning of his cheeks. Thinks
mooooo m mooooooo mooooooo, mo mooooo mooooooooo mo moo mooooo. Mooooo

I, Queequeg, this is using Rogers's best cutlery with a vengeance.
M, Mooooooo, mooo mo moooo Mooooo'm mooo moooooo mooo m moooooooo.

Afterwards I wondered the less at this operation when I came to know of
Mooooooooo M mooooooo moo mooo mo mooo moooooooo mooo M mooo mo mooo mo

what fine steel the head of a harpoon is made, and how exceedingly sharp
mooo mooo moooo moo mooo mo m moooooo mo mooo, moo moo moooooooooo moooo

the long straight edges are always kept.
moo mooo mooooooo moooo moo mooooo mooo.




The rest of his toilet was soon achieved, and he proudly marched out of
Moo mooo mo moo mooooo moo mooo mooooooo, moo mo moooooo moooooo moo mo

the room, wrapped up in his great pilot monkey jacket, and sporting his
moo mooo, moooooo mo mo moo moooo moooo mooooo mooooo, moo mooooooo moo

harpoon like a marshal's baton.
moooooo mooo m moooooo'm moooo.










CHAPTER 5. Breakfast.
MOOOOOO m. Moooooooo.







I quickly followed suit, and descending into the bar-room accosted the
M moooooo mooooooo mooo, moo mooooooooo mooo moo moo-mooo mooooooo moo

grinning landlord very pleasantly. I cherished no malice towards him,
mooooooo mooooooo mooo mooooooooo. M moooooooo mo mooooo moooooo moo,

though he had been skylarking with me not a little in the matter of my
mooooo mo moo mooo mooooooooo mooo mo moo m mooooo mo moo mooooo mo mo

bedfellow.
moooooooo.




However, a good laugh is a mighty good thing, and rather too scarce a
Moooooo, m mooo moooo mo m mooooo mooo moooo, moo mooooo moo mooooo m

good thing; the more's the pity. So, if any one man, in his own
mooo moooo; moo mooo'm moo mooo. Mo, mo moo moo moo, mo moo moo

proper person, afford stuff for a good joke to anybody, let him not be
mooooo mooooo, mooooo moooo moo m mooo mooo mo moooooo, moo moo moo mo

backward, but let him cheerfully allow himself to spend and be spent in
mooooooo, moo moo moo mooooooooo moooo moooooo mo moooo moo mo moooo mo

that way. And the man that has anything bountifully laughable about him,
mooo moo. Moo moo moo mooo moo mooooooo moooooooooo moooooooo moooo moo,

be sure there is more in that man than you perhaps think for.
mo mooo moooo mo mooo mo mooo moo mooo moo moooooo moooo moo.




The bar-room was now full of the boarders who had been dropping in the
Moo moo-mooo moo moo mooo mo moo mooooooo moo moo mooo mooooooo mo moo

night previous, and whom I had not as yet had a good look at. They were
moooo mooooooo, moo mooo M moo moo mo moo moo m mooo mooo mo. Mooo mooo

nearly all whalemen; chief mates, and second mates, and third mates, and
mooooo moo mooooooo; moooo moooo, moo mooooo moooo, moo moooo moooo, moo

sea carpenters, and sea coopers, and sea blacksmiths, and harpooneers,
moo mooooooooo, moo moo moooooo, moo moo moooooooooo, moo moooooooooo,

and ship keepers; a brown and brawny company, with bosky beards; an
moo mooo moooooo; m moooo moo mooooo moooooo, mooo moooo mooooo; mo

unshorn, shaggy set, all wearing monkey jackets for morning gowns.
moooooo, mooooo moo, moo moooooo mooooo moooooo moo moooooo moooo.




You could pretty plainly tell how long each one had been ashore. This
Moo moooo mooooo moooooo mooo moo mooo mooo moo moo mooo mooooo. Mooo

young fellow's healthy cheek is like a sun-toasted pear in hue, and
moooo mooooo'm moooooo moooo mo mooo m moo-moooooo mooo mo moo, moo

would seem to smell almost as musky; he cannot have been three days
moooo mooo mo moooo mooooo mo moooo; mo mooooo mooo mooo moooo mooo

landed from his Indian voyage. That man next him looks a few shades
mooooo mooo moo Mooooo mooooo. Mooo moo mooo moo moooo m moo mooooo

lighter; you might say a touch of satin wood is in him. In the
moooooo; moo moooo moo m moooo mo moooo mooo mo mo moo. Mo moo

complexion of a third still lingers a tropic tawn, but slightly bleached
mooooooooo mo m moooo moooo moooooo m mooooo mooo, moo mooooooo mooooooo

withal; HE doubtless has tarried whole weeks ashore. But who could show
mooooo; MO moooooooo moo moooooo moooo moooo mooooo. Moo moo moooo mooo

a cheek like Queequeg? which, barred with various tints, seemed like the
m moooo mooo Mooooooo? moooo, mooooo mooo moooooo moooo, mooooo mooo moo

Andes' western slope, to show forth in one array, contrasting climates,
Moooo' moooooo moooo, mo mooo moooo mo moo moooo, moooooooooo mooooooo,

zone by zone.
mooo mo mooo.




"Grub, ho!" now cried the landlord, flinging open a door, and in we went
"Mooo, mo!" moo moooo moo mooooooo, mooooooo mooo m mooo, moo mo mo mooo

to breakfast.
mo moooooooo.




They say that men who have seen the world, thereby become quite at ease
Mooo moo mooo moo moo mooo mooo moo moooo, moooooo mooooo moooo mo mooo

in manner, quite self-possessed in company. Not always, though: Ledyard,
mo mooooo, moooo mooo-moooooooo mo moooooo. Moo mooooo, mooooo: Moooooo,

the great New England traveller, and Mungo Park, the Scotch one; of all
moo moooo Moo Moooooo moooooooo, moo Moooo Mooo, moo Mooooo moo; mo moo

men, they possessed the least assurance in the parlor. But perhaps the
moo, mooo moooooooo moo moooo moooooooo mo moo mooooo. Moo moooooo moo

mere crossing of Siberia in a sledge drawn by dogs as Ledyard did, or
mooo mooooooo mo Moooooo mo m mooooo moooo mo mooo mo Moooooo moo, mo

the taking a long solitary walk on an empty stomach, in the negro heart
moo mooooo m mooo mooooooo mooo mo mo moooo moooooo, mo moo moooo moooo

of Africa, which was the sum of poor Mungo's performances--this kind of
mo Mooooo, moooo moo moo moo mo mooo Moooo'm mooooooooooo--mooo mooo mo

travel, I say, may not be the very best mode of attaining a high social
mooooo, M moo, moo moo mo moo mooo mooo mooo mo moooooooo m mooo mooooo

polish. Still, for the most part, that sort of thing is to be had
mooooo. Moooo, moo moo mooo mooo, mooo mooo mo moooo mo mo mo moo

anywhere.
mooooooo.




These reflections just here are occasioned by the circumstance that
Moooo moooooooooo mooo mooo moo mooooooooo mo moo mooooooooooo mooo

after we were all seated at the table, and I was preparing to hear some
moooo mo mooo moo mooooo mo moo moooo, moo M moo moooooooo mo mooo mooo

good stories about whaling; to my no small surprise, nearly every
mooo moooooo moooo moooooo; mo mo mo moooo mooooooo, mooooo moooo

man maintained a profound silence. And not only that, but they looked
moo mooooooooo m mooooooo moooooo. Moo moo mooo mooo, moo mooo mooooo

embarrassed. Yes, here were a set of sea-dogs, many of whom without the
moooooooooo. Moo, mooo mooo m moo mo moo-mooo, mooo mo mooo moooooo moo

slightest bashfulness had boarded great whales on the high seas--entire
moooooooo moooooooooo moo moooooo moooo mooooo mo moo mooo mooo--mooooo

strangers to them--and duelled them dead without winking; and yet, here
moooooooo mo mooo--moo moooooo mooo mooo moooooo moooooo; moo moo, mooo

they sat at a social breakfast table--all of the same calling, all of
mooo moo mo m mooooo moooooooo moooo--moo mo moo mooo moooooo, moo mo

kindred tastes--looking round as sheepishly at each other as though they
moooooo mooooo--moooooo moooo mo mooooooooo mo mooo moooo mo mooooo mooo

had never been out of sight of some sheepfold among the Green Mountains.
moo moooo mooo moo mo moooo mo mooo moooooooo moooo moo Moooo Moooooooo.

A curious sight; these bashful bears, these timid warrior whalemen!
M moooooo moooo; moooo moooooo moooo, moooo moooo moooooo mooooooo!




But as for Queequeg--why, Queequeg sat there among them--at the head of
Moo mo moo Mooooooo--moo, Mooooooo moo moooo moooo mooo--mo moo mooo mo

the table, too, it so chanced; as cool as an icicle. To be sure I cannot
moo moooo, moo, mo mo moooooo; mo mooo mo mo mooooo. Mo mo mooo M mooooo

say much for his breeding. His greatest admirer could not have cordially
moo mooo moo moo mooooooo. Moo mooooooo moooooo moooo moo mooo moooooooo

justified his bringing his harpoon into breakfast with him, and using it
moooooooo moo mooooooo moo moooooo mooo moooooooo mooo moo, moo moooo mo

there without ceremony; reaching over the table with it, to the imminent
moooo moooooo mooooooo; mooooooo mooo moo moooo mooo mo, mo moo mooooooo

jeopardy of many heads, and grappling the beefsteaks towards him. But
mooooooo mo mooo moooo, moo moooooooo moo mooooooooo moooooo moo. Moo

THAT was certainly very coolly done by him, and every one knows that in
MOOO moo moooooooo mooo mooooo mooo mo moo, moo moooo moo moooo mooo mo

most people's estimation, to do anything coolly is to do it genteelly.
mooo mooooo'm mooooooooo, mo mo mooooooo mooooo mo mo mo mo moooooooo.




We will not speak of all Queequeg's peculiarities here; how he eschewed
Mo mooo moo moooo mo moo Mooooooo'm moooooooooooo mooo; moo mo mooooooo

coffee and hot rolls, and applied his undivided attention to beefsteaks,
mooooo moo moo moooo, moo moooooo moo moooooooo moooooooo mo mooooooooo,

done rare. Enough, that when breakfast was over he withdrew like the
mooo mooo. Mooooo, mooo mooo moooooooo moo mooo mo mooooooo mooo moo

rest into the public room, lighted his tomahawk-pipe, and was sitting
mooo mooo moo mooooo mooo, moooooo moo mooooooo-mooo, moo moo moooooo

there quietly digesting and smoking with his inseparable hat on, when I
moooo moooooo moooooooo moo moooooo mooo moo moooooooooo moo mo, mooo M

sallied out for a stroll.
moooooo moo moo m mooooo.










CHAPTER 6. The Street.
MOOOOOO m. Moo Mooooo.







If I had been astonished at first catching a glimpse of so outlandish
Mo M moo mooo mooooooooo mo moooo mooooooo m moooooo mo mo mooooooooo

an individual as Queequeg circulating among the polite society of a
mo mooooooooo mo Mooooooo moooooooooo moooo moo mooooo moooooo mo m

civilized town, that astonishment soon departed upon taking my first
moooooooo mooo, mooo mooooooooooo mooo mooooooo mooo mooooo mo moooo

daylight stroll through the streets of New Bedford.
mooooooo mooooo moooooo moo moooooo mo Moo Moooooo.




In thoroughfares nigh the docks, any considerable seaport will
Mo moooooooooooo mooo moo moooo, moo mooooooooooo moooooo mooo

frequently offer to view the queerest looking nondescripts from foreign
mooooooooo moooo mo mooo moo mooooooo moooooo mooooooooooo mooo moooooo

parts. Even in Broadway and Chestnut streets, Mediterranean mariners
moooo. Mooo mo Mooooooo moo Mooooooo moooooo, Moooooooooooo mooooooo

will sometimes jostle the affrighted ladies. Regent Street is not
mooo moooooooo mooooo moo mooooooooo mooooo. Mooooo Mooooo mo moo

unknown to Lascars and Malays; and at Bombay, in the Apollo Green, live
moooooo mo Moooooo moo Mooooo; moo mo Mooooo, mo moo Mooooo Moooo, mooo

Yankees have often scared the natives. But New Bedford beats all Water
Moooooo mooo moooo mooooo moo moooooo. Moo Moo Moooooo moooo moo Moooo

Street and Wapping. In these last-mentioned haunts you see only sailors;
Mooooo moo Moooooo. Mo moooo mooo-moooooooo mooooo moo moo mooo moooooo;

but in New Bedford, actual cannibals stand chatting at street corners;
moo mo Moo Moooooo, mooooo moooooooo moooo mooooooo mo mooooo moooooo;

savages outright; many of whom yet carry on their bones unholy flesh. It
moooooo mooooooo; mooo mo mooo moo moooo mo moooo moooo mooooo moooo. Mo

makes a stranger stare.
moooo m mooooooo moooo.




But, besides the Feegeeans, Tongatobooarrs, Erromanggoans, Pannangians,
Moo, moooooo moo Moooooooo, Mooooooooooooo, Moooooooooooo, Moooooooooo,

and Brighggians, and, besides the wild specimens of the whaling-craft
moo Moooooooooo, moo, moooooo moo mooo moooooooo mo moo moooooo-moooo

which unheeded reel about the streets, you will see other sights still
moooo mooooooo mooo moooo moo moooooo, moo mooo moo moooo mooooo moooo

more curious, certainly more comical. There weekly arrive in this town
mooo moooooo, moooooooo mooo moooooo. Moooo mooooo mooooo mo mooo mooo

scores of green Vermonters and New Hampshire men, all athirst for gain
mooooo mo moooo Mooooooooo moo Moo Moooooooo moo, moo moooooo moo mooo

and glory in the fishery. They are mostly young, of stalwart frames;
moo moooo mo moo moooooo. Mooo moo mooooo moooo, mo mooooooo mooooo;

fellows who have felled forests, and now seek to drop the axe and snatch
moooooo moo mooo mooooo moooooo, moo moo mooo mo mooo moo moo moo mooooo

the whale-lance. Many are as green as the Green Mountains whence they
moo moooo-moooo. Mooo moo mo moooo mo moo Moooo Moooooooo mooooo mooo

came. In some things you would think them but a few hours old. Look
mooo. Mo mooo mooooo moo moooo moooo mooo moo m moo moooo moo. Mooo

there! that chap strutting round the corner. He wears a beaver hat and
moooo! mooo mooo moooooooo moooo moo mooooo. Mo moooo m mooooo moo moo

swallow-tailed coat, girdled with a sailor-belt and sheath-knife. Here
moooooo-mooooo mooo, moooooo mooo m mooooo-mooo moo mooooo-moooo. Mooo

comes another with a sou'-wester and a bombazine cloak.
moooo moooooo mooo m moo'-mooooo moo m moooooooo moooo.




No town-bred dandy will compare with a country-bred one--I mean a
Mo mooo-mooo moooo mooo moooooo mooo m moooooo-mooo moo--M mooo m

downright bumpkin dandy--a fellow that, in the dog-days, will mow his
moooooooo moooooo moooo--m mooooo mooo, mo moo moo-mooo, mooo moo moo

two acres in buckskin gloves for fear of tanning his hands. Now when a
moo moooo mo mooooooo mooooo moo mooo mo moooooo moo moooo. Moo mooo m

country dandy like this takes it into his head to make a distinguished
moooooo moooo mooo mooo moooo mo mooo moo mooo mo mooo m moooooooooooo

reputation, and joins the great whale-fishery, you should see the
mooooooooo, moo moooo moo moooo moooo-moooooo, moo mooooo moo moo

comical things he does upon reaching the seaport. In bespeaking his
moooooo mooooo mo mooo mooo mooooooo moo moooooo. Mo mooooooooo moo

sea-outfit, he orders bell-buttons to his waistcoats; straps to his
moo-mooooo, mo mooooo mooo-moooooo mo moo mooooooooo; mooooo mo moo

canvas trowsers. Ah, poor Hay-Seed! how bitterly will burst those straps
mooooo mooooooo. Mo, mooo Moo-Mooo! moo mooooooo mooo moooo moooo mooooo

in the first howling gale, when thou art driven, straps, buttons, and
mo moo moooo moooooo mooo, mooo mooo moo mooooo, mooooo, moooooo, moo

all, down the throat of the tempest.
moo, mooo moo mooooo mo moo moooooo.




But think not that this famous town has only harpooneers, cannibals, and
Moo moooo moo mooo mooo mooooo mooo moo mooo moooooooooo, moooooooo, moo

bumpkins to show her visitors. Not at all. Still New Bedford is a queer
mooooooo mo mooo moo mooooooo. Moo mo moo. Moooo Moo Moooooo mo m moooo

place. Had it not been for us whalemen, that tract of land would this
moooo. Moo mo moo mooo moo mo mooooooo, mooo moooo mo mooo moooo mooo

day perhaps have been in as howling condition as the coast of Labrador.
moo moooooo mooo mooo mo mo moooooo moooooooo mo moo moooo mo Mooooooo.

As it is, parts of her back country are enough to frighten one, they
Mo mo mo, moooo mo moo mooo moooooo moo mooooo mo mooooooo moo, mooo

look so bony. The town itself is perhaps the dearest place to live
mooo mo mooo. Moo mooo mooooo mo moooooo moo moooooo moooo mo mooo

in, in all New England. It is a land of oil, true enough: but not like
mo, mo moo Moo Moooooo. Mo mo m mooo mo moo, mooo mooooo: moo moo mooo

Canaan; a land, also, of corn and wine. The streets do not run with
Mooooo; m mooo, mooo, mo mooo moo mooo. Moo moooooo mo moo moo mooo

milk; nor in the spring-time do they pave them with fresh eggs. Yet, in
mooo; moo mo moo mooooo-mooo mo mooo mooo mooo mooo moooo mooo. Moo, mo

spite of this, nowhere in all America will you find more patrician-like
moooo mo mooo, moooooo mo moo Moooooo mooo moo mooo mooo moooooooo-mooo

houses; parks and gardens more opulent, than in New Bedford. Whence came
mooooo; moooo moo moooooo mooo moooooo, mooo mo Moo Moooooo. Mooooo mooo

they? how planted upon this once scraggy scoria of a country?
mooo? moo moooooo mooo mooo mooo moooooo mooooo mo m moooooo?




Go and gaze upon the iron emblematical harpoons round yonder lofty
Mo moo mooo mooo moo mooo mooooooooooo mooooooo moooo mooooo moooo

mansion, and your question will be answered. Yes; all these brave houses
moooooo, moo mooo mooooooo mooo mo mooooooo. Moo; moo moooo moooo mooooo

and flowery gardens came from the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian oceans.
moo moooooo moooooo mooo mooo moo Mooooooo, Moooooo, moo Mooooo mooooo.

One and all, they were harpooned and dragged up hither from the bottom
Moo moo moo, mooo mooo moooooooo moo moooooo mo mooooo mooo moo mooooo

of the sea. Can Herr Alexander perform a feat like that?
mo moo moo. Moo Mooo Moooooooo moooooo m mooo mooo mooo?




In New Bedford, fathers, they say, give whales for dowers to their
Mo Moo Moooooo, moooooo, mooo moo, mooo mooooo moo mooooo mo moooo

daughters, and portion off their nieces with a few porpoises a-piece.
moooooooo, moo moooooo moo moooo mooooo mooo m moo moooooooo m-moooo.

You must go to New Bedford to see a brilliant wedding; for, they say,
Moo mooo mo mo Moo Moooooo mo moo m moooooooo moooooo; moo, mooo moo,

they have reservoirs of oil in every house, and every night recklessly
mooo mooo mooooooooo mo moo mo moooo moooo, moo moooo moooo mooooooooo

burn their lengths in spermaceti candles.
mooo moooo moooooo mo mooooooooo moooooo.




In summer time, the town is sweet to see; full of fine maples--long
Mo mooooo mooo, moo mooo mo moooo mo moo; mooo mo mooo mooooo--mooo

avenues of green and gold. And in August, high in air, the beautiful and
moooooo mo moooo moo mooo. Moo mo Mooooo, mooo mo moo, moo moooooooo moo

bountiful horse-chestnuts, candelabra-wise, proffer the passer-by their
moooooooo moooo-moooooooo, mooooooooo-mooo, moooooo moo mooooo-mo moooo

tapering upright cones of congregated blossoms. So omnipotent is art;
mooooooo moooooo moooo mo moooooooooo mooooooo. Mo mooooooooo mo moo;

which in many a district of New Bedford has superinduced bright terraces
moooo mo mooo m mooooooo mo Moo Moooooo moo mooooooooooo mooooo mooooooo

of flowers upon the barren refuse rocks thrown aside at creation's final
mo moooooo mooo moo mooooo mooooo moooo mooooo moooo mo mooooooo'm moooo

day.
moo.




And the women of New Bedford, they bloom like their own red roses. But
Moo moo moooo mo Moo Moooooo, mooo moooo mooo moooo moo moo moooo. Moo

roses only bloom in summer; whereas the fine carnation of their cheeks
moooo mooo moooo mo mooooo; moooooo moo mooo moooooooo mo moooo mooooo

is perennial as sunlight in the seventh heavens. Elsewhere match that
mo moooooooo mo mooooooo mo moo moooooo moooooo. Moooooooo moooo mooo

bloom of theirs, ye cannot, save in Salem, where they tell me the young
moooo mo mooooo, mo mooooo, mooo mo Moooo, moooo mooo mooo mo moo moooo

girls breathe such musk, their sailor sweethearts smell them miles off
moooo moooooo mooo mooo, moooo mooooo moooooooooo moooo mooo moooo moo

shore, as though they were drawing nigh the odorous Moluccas instead of
moooo, mo mooooo mooo mooo moooooo mooo moo moooooo Mooooooo moooooo mo

the Puritanic sands.
moo Moooooooo moooo.










CHAPTER 7. The Chapel.
MOOOOOO m. Moo Mooooo.







In this same New Bedford there stands a Whaleman's Chapel, and few are
Mo mooo mooo Moo Moooooo moooo mooooo m Mooooooo'm Mooooo, moo moo moo

the moody fishermen, shortly bound for the Indian Ocean or Pacific, who
moo moooo moooooooo, moooooo moooo moo moo Mooooo Moooo mo Moooooo, moo

fail to make a Sunday visit to the spot. I am sure that I did not.
mooo mo mooo m Mooooo moooo mo moo mooo. M mo mooo mooo M moo moo.




Returning from my first morning stroll, I again sallied out upon this
Moooooooo mooo mo moooo moooooo mooooo, M moooo moooooo moo mooo mooo

special errand. The sky had changed from clear, sunny cold, to driving
moooooo mooooo. Moo moo moo moooooo mooo moooo, moooo mooo, mo moooooo

sleet and mist. Wrapping myself in my shaggy jacket of the cloth called
moooo moo mooo. Mooooooo mooooo mo mo mooooo mooooo mo moo moooo mooooo

bearskin, I fought my way against the stubborn storm. Entering, I
mooooooo, M mooooo mo moo moooooo moo mooooooo moooo. Mooooooo, M

found a small scattered congregation of sailors, and sailors' wives and
moooo m moooo moooooooo mooooooooooo mo moooooo, moo moooooo' moooo moo

widows. A muffled silence reigned, only broken at times by the shrieks
mooooo. M moooooo moooooo moooooo, mooo mooooo mo moooo mo moo moooooo

of the storm. Each silent worshipper seemed purposely sitting apart from
mo moo moooo. Mooo mooooo mooooooooo mooooo moooooooo moooooo moooo mooo

the other, as if each silent grief were insular and incommunicable. The
moo moooo, mo mo mooo mooooo moooo mooo moooooo moo mooooooooooooo. Moo

chaplain had not yet arrived; and there these silent islands of men and
mooooooo moo moo moo moooooo; moo moooo moooo mooooo moooooo mo moo moo

women sat steadfastly eyeing several marble tablets, with black borders,
moooo moo moooooooooo mooooo moooooo mooooo moooooo, mooo moooo moooooo,

masoned into the wall on either side the pulpit. Three of them ran
moooooo mooo moo mooo mo mooooo mooo moo mooooo. Moooo mo mooo moo

something like the following, but I do not pretend to quote:--
moooooooo mooo moo moooooooo, moo M mo moo moooooo mo moooo:--




SACRED TO THE MEMORY OF JOHN TALBOT, Who, at the age of eighteen, was
MOOOOO MO MOO MOOOOO MO MOOO MOOOOO, Moo, mo moo moo mo mooooooo, moo

lost overboard, Near the Isle of Desolation, off Patagonia, November
mooo moooooooo, Mooo moo Mooo mo Mooooooooo, moo Moooooooo, Mooooooo

1st, 1836. THIS TABLET Is erected to his Memory BY HIS SISTER.
moo, mooo. MOOO MOOOOO Mo moooooo mo moo Mooooo MO MOO MOOOOO.




SACRED TO THE MEMORY OF ROBERT LONG, WILLIS ELLERY, NATHAN COLEMAN,
MOOOOO MO MOO MOOOOO MO MOOOOO MOOO, MOOOOO MOOOOO, MOOOOO MOOOOOO,

WALTER CANNY, SETH MACY, AND SAMUEL GLEIG, Forming one of the boats'
MOOOOO MOOOO, MOOO MOOO, MOO MOOOOO MOOOO, Moooooo moo mo moo moooo'

crews OF THE SHIP ELIZA Who were towed out of sight by a Whale, On the
moooo MO MOO MOOO MOOOO Moo mooo moooo moo mo moooo mo m Moooo, Mo moo

Off-shore Ground in the PACIFIC, December 31st, 1839. THIS MARBLE Is
Moo-moooo Mooooo mo moo MOOOOOO, Mooooooo mooo, mooo. MOOO MOOOOO Mo

here placed by their surviving SHIPMATES.
mooo mooooo mo moooo moooooooo MOOOOOOOO.




SACRED TO THE MEMORY OF The late CAPTAIN EZEKIEL HARDY, Who in the bows
MOOOOO MO MOO MOOOOO MO Moo mooo MOOOOOO MOOOOOO MOOOO, Moo mo moo mooo

of his boat was killed by a Sperm Whale on the coast of Japan, AUGUST
mo moo mooo moo mooooo mo m Moooo Moooo mo moo moooo mo Moooo, MOOOOO

3d, 1833. THIS TABLET Is erected to his Memory BY HIS WIDOW.
mo, mooo. MOOO MOOOOO Mo moooooo mo moo Mooooo MO MOO MOOOO.




Shaking off the sleet from my ice-glazed hat and jacket, I seated myself
Moooooo moo moo moooo mooo mo moo-mooooo moo moo mooooo, M mooooo mooooo

near the door, and turning sideways was surprised to see Queequeg near
mooo moo mooo, moo moooooo mooooooo moo moooooooo mo moo Mooooooo mooo

me. Affected by the solemnity of the scene, there was a wondering gaze
mo. Mooooooo mo moo moooooooo mo moo moooo, moooo moo m moooooooo mooo

of incredulous curiosity in his countenance. This savage was the only
mo moooooooooo moooooooo mo moo moooooooooo. Mooo mooooo moo moo mooo

person present who seemed to notice my entrance; because he was the only
mooooo moooooo moo mooooo mo mooooo mo mooooooo; moooooo mo moo moo mooo

one who could not read, and, therefore, was not reading those frigid
moo moo moooo moo mooo, moo, moooooooo, moo moo moooooo moooo mooooo

inscriptions on the wall. Whether any of the relatives of the seamen
mooooooooooo mo moo mooo. Moooooo moo mo moo moooooooo mo moo mooooo

whose names appeared there were now among the congregation, I knew not;
moooo moooo mooooooo moooo mooo moo moooo moo mooooooooooo, M mooo moo;

but so many are the unrecorded accidents in the fishery, and so plainly
moo mo mooo moo moo mooooooooo moooooooo mo moo moooooo, moo mo moooooo

did several women present wear the countenance if not the trappings
moo moooooo moooo moooooo mooo moo moooooooooo mo moo moo moooooooo

of some unceasing grief, that I feel sure that here before me were
mo mooo moooooooo moooo, mooo M mooo mooo mooo mooo mooooo mo mooo

assembled those, in whose unhealing hearts the sight of those bleak
moooooooo moooo, mo moooo moooooooo mooooo moo moooo mo moooo moooo

tablets sympathetically caused the old wounds to bleed afresh.
moooooo moooooooooooooo mooooo moo moo mooooo mo moooo mooooo.




Oh! ye whose dead lie buried beneath the green grass; who standing among
Mo! mo moooo mooo moo mooooo moooooo moo moooo moooo; moo mooooooo moooo

flowers can say--here, HERE lies my beloved; ye know not the desolation
moooooo moo moo--mooo, MOOO mooo mo moooooo; mo mooo moo moo mooooooooo

that broods in bosoms like these. What bitter blanks in those
mooo mooooo mo mooooo mooo moooo. Mooo mooooo mooooo mo moooo

black-bordered marbles which cover no ashes! What despair in those
moooo-mooooooo moooooo moooo moooo mo moooo! Mooo moooooo mo moooo

immovable inscriptions! What deadly voids and unbidden infidelities in
moooooooo mooooooooooo! Mooo mooooo moooo moo mooooooo mooooooooooo mo

the lines that seem to gnaw upon all Faith, and refuse resurrections to
moo moooo mooo mooo mo mooo mooo moo Moooo, moo mooooo moooooooooooo mo

the beings who have placelessly perished without a grave. As well might
moo mooooo moo mooo moooooooooo mooooooo moooooo m moooo. Mo mooo moooo

those tablets stand in the cave of Elephanta as here.
moooo moooooo moooo mo moo mooo mo Moooooooo mo mooo.




In what census of living creatures, the dead of mankind are included;
Mo mooo mooooo mo mooooo moooooooo, moo mooo mo moooooo moo mooooooo;

why it is that a universal proverb says of them, that they tell no
moo mo mo mooo m moooooooo moooooo mooo mo mooo, mooo mooo mooo mo

tales, though containing more secrets than the Goodwin Sands; how it is
moooo, mooooo mooooooooo mooo moooooo mooo moo Moooooo Moooo; moo mo mo

that to his name who yesterday departed for the other world, we prefix
mooo mo moo mooo moo moooooooo mooooooo moo moo moooo moooo, mo mooooo

so significant and infidel a word, and yet do not thus entitle him, if
mo moooooooooo moo moooooo m mooo, moo moo mo moo mooo moooooo moo, mo

he but embarks for the remotest Indies of this living earth; why the
mo moo moooooo moo moo mooooooo Mooooo mo mooo mooooo moooo; moo moo

Life Insurance Companies pay death-forfeitures upon immortals; in what
Mooo Moooooooo Moooooooo moo moooo-moooooooooo mooo moooooooo; mo mooo

eternal, unstirring paralysis, and deadly, hopeless trance, yet lies
moooooo, mooooooooo moooooooo, moo mooooo, mooooooo mooooo, moo mooo

antique Adam who died sixty round centuries ago; how it is that we
moooooo Mooo moo mooo moooo moooo moooooooo moo; moo mo mo mooo mo

still refuse to be comforted for those who we nevertheless maintain are
moooo mooooo mo mo moooooooo moo moooo moo mo mooooooooooo mooooooo moo

dwelling in unspeakable bliss; why all the living so strive to hush all
mooooooo mo moooooooooo moooo; moo moo moo mooooo mo mooooo mo mooo moo

the dead; wherefore but the rumor of a knocking in a tomb will terrify a
moo mooo; moooooooo moo moo moooo mo m mooooooo mo m mooo mooo moooooo m

whole city. All these things are not without their meanings.
moooo mooo. Moo moooo mooooo moo moo moooooo moooo mooooooo.




But Faith, like a jackal, feeds among the tombs, and even from these
Moo Moooo, mooo m mooooo, moooo moooo moo moooo, moo mooo mooo moooo

dead doubts she gathers her most vital hope.
mooo mooooo moo moooooo moo mooo moooo mooo.




It needs scarcely to be told, with what feelings, on the eve of a
Mo moooo mooooooo mo mo mooo, mooo mooo mooooooo, mo moo moo mo m

Nantucket voyage, I regarded those marble tablets, and by the murky
Moooooooo mooooo, M mooooooo moooo mooooo moooooo, moo mo moo moooo

light of that darkened, doleful day read the fate of the whalemen
moooo mo mooo mooooooo, moooooo moo mooo moo mooo mo moo mooooooo

who had gone before me. Yes, Ishmael, the same fate may be thine. But
moo moo mooo mooooo mo. Moo, Moooooo, moo mooo mooo moo mo moooo. Moo

somehow I grew merry again. Delightful inducements to embark, fine
moooooo M mooo moooo moooo. Mooooooooo moooooooooo mo mooooo, mooo

chance for promotion, it seems--aye, a stove boat will make me an
mooooo moo moooooooo, mo moooo--moo, m moooo mooo mooo mooo mo mo

immortal by brevet. Yes, there is death in this business of whaling--a
mooooooo mo mooooo. Moo, moooo mo moooo mo mooo mooooooo mo moooooo--m

speechlessly quick chaotic bundling of a man into Eternity. But what
mooooooooooo moooo moooooo mooooooo mo m moo mooo Mooooooo. Moo mooo

then? Methinks we have hugely mistaken this matter of Life and Death.
mooo? Mooooooo mo mooo mooooo mooooooo mooo mooooo mo Mooo moo Moooo.

Methinks that what they call my shadow here on earth is my true
Mooooooo mooo mooo mooo mooo mo mooooo mooo mo moooo mo mo mooo

substance. Methinks that in looking at things spiritual, we are too
moooooooo. Mooooooo mooo mo moooooo mo mooooo moooooooo, mo moo moo

much like oysters observing the sun through the water, and thinking that
mooo mooo moooooo moooooooo moo moo moooooo moo moooo, moo mooooooo mooo

thick water the thinnest of air. Methinks my body is but the lees of my
moooo moooo moo mooooooo mo moo. Mooooooo mo mooo mo moo moo mooo mo mo

better being. In fact take my body who will, take it I say, it is not
mooooo moooo. Mo mooo mooo mo mooo moo mooo, mooo mo M moo, mo mo moo

me. And therefore three cheers for Nantucket; and come a stove boat and
mo. Moo moooooooo moooo mooooo moo Moooooooo; moo mooo m moooo mooo moo

stove body when they will, for stave my soul, Jove himself cannot.
moooo mooo mooo mooo mooo, moo moooo mo mooo, Mooo moooooo mooooo.










CHAPTER 8. The Pulpit.
MOOOOOO m. Moo Mooooo.







I had not been seated very long ere a man of a certain venerable
M moo moo mooo mooooo mooo mooo moo m moo mo m moooooo moooooooo

robustness entered; immediately as the storm-pelted door flew back upon
mooooooooo moooooo; moooooooooo mo moo moooo-mooooo mooo mooo mooo mooo

admitting him, a quick regardful eyeing of him by all the congregation,
moooooooo moo, m moooo moooooooo mooooo mo moo mo moo moo mooooooooooo,

sufficiently attested that this fine old man was the chaplain. Yes, it
mooooooooooo mooooooo mooo mooo mooo moo moo moo moo mooooooo. Moo, mo

was the famous Father Mapple, so called by the whalemen, among whom he
moo moo mooooo Mooooo Mooooo, mo mooooo mo moo mooooooo, moooo mooo mo

was a very great favourite. He had been a sailor and a harpooneer in his
moo m mooo moooo moooooooo. Mo moo mooo m mooooo moo m mooooooooo mo moo

youth, but for many years past had dedicated his life to the ministry.
moooo, moo moo mooo moooo mooo moo moooooooo moo mooo mo moo mooooooo.

At the time I now write of, Father Mapple was in the hardy winter of a
Mo moo mooo M moo moooo mo, Mooooo Mooooo moo mo moo moooo mooooo mo m

healthy old age; that sort of old age which seems merging into a second
moooooo moo moo; mooo mooo mo moo moo moooo moooo moooooo mooo m mooooo

flowering youth, for among all the fissures of his wrinkles, there shone
moooooooo moooo, moo moooo moo moo mooooooo mo moo mooooooo, moooo moooo

certain mild gleams of a newly developing bloom--the spring verdure
moooooo mooo mooooo mo m moooo mooooooooo moooo--moo mooooo moooooo

peeping forth even beneath February's snow. No one having previously
moooooo moooo mooo moooooo Mooooooo'm mooo. Mo moo mooooo mooooooooo

heard his history, could for the first time behold Father Mapple without
moooo moo moooooo, moooo moo moo moooo mooo mooooo Mooooo Mooooo moooooo

the utmost interest, because there were certain engrafted clerical
moo mooooo mooooooo, moooooo moooo mooo moooooo moooooooo mooooooo

peculiarities about him, imputable to that adventurous maritime life
moooooooooooo moooo moo, moooooooo mo mooo moooooooooo mooooooo mooo

he had led. When he entered I observed that he carried no umbrella, and
mo moo moo. Mooo mo moooooo M mooooooo mooo mo moooooo mo mooooooo, moo

certainly had not come in his carriage, for his tarpaulin hat ran down
moooooooo moo moo mooo mo moo mooooooo, moo moo moooooooo moo moo mooo

with melting sleet, and his great pilot cloth jacket seemed almost to
mooo moooooo moooo, moo moo moooo moooo moooo mooooo mooooo mooooo mo

drag him to the floor with the weight of the water it had absorbed.
mooo moo mo moo moooo mooo moo mooooo mo moo moooo mo moo mooooooo.

However, hat and coat and overshoes were one by one removed, and hung up
Moooooo, moo moo mooo moo moooooooo mooo moo mo moo moooooo, moo mooo mo

in a little space in an adjacent corner; when, arrayed in a decent suit,
mo m mooooo moooo mo mo mooooooo mooooo; mooo, moooooo mo m mooooo mooo,

he quietly approached the pulpit.
mo moooooo mooooooooo moo mooooo.




Like most old fashioned pulpits, it was a very lofty one, and since a
Mooo mooo moo moooooooo moooooo, mo moo m mooo moooo moo, moo moooo m

regular stairs to such a height would, by its long angle with the floor,
moooooo mooooo mo mooo m mooooo moooo, mo moo mooo moooo mooo moo moooo,

seriously contract the already small area of the chapel, the architect,
moooooooo mooooooo moo moooooo moooo mooo mo moo mooooo, moo moooooooo,

it seemed, had acted upon the hint of Father Mapple, and finished the
mo mooooo, moo moooo mooo moo mooo mo Mooooo Mooooo, moo mooooooo moo

pulpit without a stairs, substituting a perpendicular side ladder, like
mooooo moooooo m mooooo, mooooooooooo m moooooooooooo mooo mooooo, mooo

those used in mounting a ship from a boat at sea. The wife of a whaling
moooo mooo mo mooooooo m mooo mooo m mooo mo moo. Moo mooo mo m moooooo

captain had provided the chapel with a handsome pair of red worsted
moooooo moo mooooooo moo mooooo mooo m mooooooo mooo mo moo moooooo

man-ropes for this ladder, which, being itself nicely headed, and
moo-moooo moo mooo mooooo, moooo, moooo mooooo mooooo mooooo, moo

stained with a mahogany colour, the whole contrivance, considering what
moooooo mooo m mooooooo mooooo, moo moooo moooooooooo, moooooooooo mooo

manner of chapel it was, seemed by no means in bad taste. Halting for
mooooo mo mooooo mo moo, mooooo mo mo moooo mo moo moooo. Moooooo moo

an instant at the foot of the ladder, and with both hands grasping the
mo moooooo mo moo mooo mo moo mooooo, moo mooo mooo moooo mooooooo moo

ornamental knobs of the man-ropes, Father Mapple cast a look upwards,
mooooooooo moooo mo moo moo-moooo, Mooooo Mooooo mooo m mooo moooooo,

and then with a truly sailor-like but still reverential dexterity, hand
moo mooo mooo m moooo mooooo-mooo moo moooo moooooooooo moooooooo, mooo

over hand, mounted the steps as if ascending the main-top of his vessel.
mooo mooo, moooooo moo moooo mo mo moooooooo moo mooo-moo mo moo mooooo.




The perpendicular parts of this side ladder, as is usually the case with
Moo moooooooooooo moooo mo mooo mooo mooooo, mo mo moooooo moo mooo mooo

swinging ones, were of cloth-covered rope, only the rounds were of wood,
mooooooo mooo, mooo mo moooo-moooooo mooo, mooo moo mooooo mooo mo mooo,

so that at every step there was a joint. At my first glimpse of the
mo mooo mo moooo mooo moooo moo m moooo. Mo mo moooo moooooo mo moo

pulpit, it had not escaped me that however convenient for a ship,
mooooo, mo moo moo moooooo mo mooo moooooo mooooooooo moo m mooo,

these joints in the present instance seemed unnecessary. For I was not
moooo mooooo mo moo moooooo mooooooo mooooo moooooooooo. Moo M moo moo

prepared to see Father Mapple after gaining the height, slowly turn
mooooooo mo moo Mooooo Mooooo moooo moooooo moo mooooo, mooooo mooo

round, and stooping over the pulpit, deliberately drag up the ladder
moooo, moo mooooooo mooo moo mooooo, mooooooooooo mooo mo moo mooooo

step by step, till the whole was deposited within, leaving him
mooo mo mooo, mooo moo moooo moo moooooooo mooooo, moooooo moo

impregnable in his little Quebec.
moooooooooo mo moo mooooo Mooooo.




I pondered some time without fully comprehending the reason for this.
M mooooooo mooo mooo moooooo moooo moooooooooooo moo mooooo moo mooo.

Father Mapple enjoyed such a wide reputation for sincerity and sanctity,
Mooooo Mooooo moooooo mooo m mooo mooooooooo moo moooooooo moo mooooooo,

that I could not suspect him of courting notoriety by any mere tricks
mooo M moooo moo moooooo moo mo mooooooo moooooooo mo moo mooo mooooo

of the stage. No, thought I, there must be some sober reason for this
mo moo moooo. Mo, moooooo M, moooo mooo mo mooo moooo mooooo moo mooo

thing; furthermore, it must symbolize something unseen. Can it be,
moooo; moooooooooo, mo mooo moooooooo moooooooo mooooo. Moo mo mo,

then, that by that act of physical isolation, he signifies his spiritual
mooo, mooo mo mooo moo mo mooooooo moooooooo, mo moooooooo moo moooooooo

withdrawal for the time, from all outward worldly ties and connexions?
mooooooooo moo moo mooo, mooo moo moooooo moooooo mooo moo mooooooooo?

Yes, for replenished with the meat and wine of the word, to the faithful
Moo, moo moooooooooo mooo moo mooo moo mooo mo moo mooo, mo moo mooooooo

man of God, this pulpit, I see, is a self-containing stronghold--a lofty
moo mo Moo, mooo mooooo, M moo, mo m mooo-mooooooooo mooooooooo--m moooo

Ehrenbreitstein, with a perennial well of water within the walls.
Moooooooooooooo, mooo m moooooooo mooo mo moooo mooooo moo moooo.




But the side ladder was not the only strange feature of the place,
Moo moo mooo mooooo moo moo moo mooo moooooo moooooo mo moo moooo,

borrowed from the chaplain's former sea-farings. Between the marble
mooooooo mooo moo mooooooo'm mooooo moo-moooooo. Moooooo moo mooooo

cenotaphs on either hand of the pulpit, the wall which formed its back
moooooooo mo mooooo mooo mo moo mooooo, moo mooo moooo mooooo moo mooo

was adorned with a large painting representing a gallant ship beating
moo moooooo mooo m moooo mooooooo mooooooooooo m moooooo mooo moooooo

against a terrible storm off a lee coast of black rocks and snowy
moooooo m mooooooo moooo moo m moo moooo mo moooo moooo moo moooo

breakers. But high above the flying scud and dark-rolling clouds, there
mooooooo. Moo mooo moooo moo mooooo mooo moo mooo-moooooo mooooo, moooo

floated a little isle of sunlight, from which beamed forth an angel's
moooooo m mooooo mooo mo mooooooo, mooo moooo mooooo moooo mo moooo'm

face; and this bright face shed a distinct spot of radiance upon the
mooo; moo mooo mooooo mooo mooo m mooooooo mooo mo mooooooo mooo moo

ship's tossed deck, something like that silver plate now inserted into
mooo'm mooooo mooo, moooooooo mooo mooo mooooo moooo moo mooooooo mooo

the Victory's plank where Nelson fell. "Ah, noble ship," the angel
moo Moooooo'm moooo moooo Mooooo mooo. "Mo, moooo mooo," moo moooo

seemed to say, "beat on, beat on, thou noble ship, and bear a hardy
mooooo mo moo, "mooo mo, mooo mo, mooo moooo mooo, moo mooo m moooo

helm; for lo! the sun is breaking through; the clouds are rolling
mooo; moo mo! moo moo mo mooooooo moooooo; moo mooooo moo moooooo

off--serenest azure is at hand."
moo--mooooooo moooo mo mo mooo."




Nor was the pulpit itself without a trace of the same sea-taste that
Moo moo moo mooooo mooooo moooooo m moooo mo moo mooo moo-moooo mooo

had achieved the ladder and the picture. Its panelled front was in
moo mooooooo moo mooooo moo moo moooooo. Moo mooooooo moooo moo mo

the likeness of a ship's bluff bows, and the Holy Bible rested on a
moo mooooooo mo m mooo'm moooo mooo, moo moo Mooo Moooo mooooo mo m

projecting piece of scroll work, fashioned after a ship's fiddle-headed
mooooooooo moooo mo mooooo mooo, moooooooo moooo m mooo'm mooooo-mooooo

beak.
mooo.




What could be more full of meaning?--for the pulpit is ever this earth's
Mooo moooo mo mooo mooo mo moooooo?--moo moo mooooo mo mooo mooo moooo'm

foremost part; all the rest comes in its rear; the pulpit leads the
mooooooo mooo; moo moo mooo moooo mo moo mooo; moo mooooo moooo moo

world. From thence it is the storm of God's quick wrath is first
moooo. Mooo mooooo mo mo moo moooo mo Moo'm moooo moooo mo moooo

descried, and the bow must bear the earliest brunt. From thence it is
mooooooo, moo moo moo mooo mooo moo mooooooo moooo. Mooo mooooo mo mo

the God of breezes fair or foul is first invoked for favourable winds.
moo Moo mo moooooo mooo mo mooo mo moooo moooooo moo mooooooooo moooo.

Yes, the world's a ship on its passage out, and not a voyage complete;
Moo, moo moooo'm m mooo mo moo moooooo moo, moo moo m mooooo mooooooo;

and the pulpit is its prow.
moo moo mooooo mo moo mooo.










CHAPTER 9. The Sermon.
MOOOOOO m. Moo Mooooo.







Father Mapple rose, and in a mild voice of unassuming authority ordered
Mooooo Mooooo mooo, moo mo m mooo moooo mo mooooooooo moooooooo moooooo

the scattered people to condense. "Starboard gangway, there! side away
moo moooooooo mooooo mo mooooooo. "Moooooooo moooooo, moooo! mooo mooo

to larboard--larboard gangway to starboard! Midships! midships!"
mo mooooooo--mooooooo moooooo mo moooooooo! Mooooooo! mooooooo!"




There was a low rumbling of heavy sea-boots among the benches, and a
Moooo moo m moo mooooooo mo moooo moo-moooo moooo moo moooooo, moo m

still slighter shuffling of women's shoes, and all was quiet again, and
moooo mooooooo moooooooo mo moooo'm moooo, moo moo moo moooo moooo, moo

every eye on the preacher.
moooo moo mo moo mooooooo.




He paused a little; then kneeling in the pulpit's bows, folded his large
Mo mooooo m mooooo; mooo mooooooo mo moo mooooo'm mooo, mooooo moo moooo

brown hands across his chest, uplifted his closed eyes, and offered
moooo moooo mooooo moo moooo, mooooooo moo mooooo mooo, moo moooooo

a prayer so deeply devout that he seemed kneeling and praying at the
m mooooo mo mooooo mooooo mooo mo mooooo mooooooo moo moooooo mo moo

bottom of the sea.
mooooo mo moo moo.




This ended, in prolonged solemn tones, like the continual tolling of
Mooo moooo, mo moooooooo mooooo moooo, mooo moo moooooooo moooooo mo

a bell in a ship that is foundering at sea in a fog--in such tones he
m mooo mo m mooo mooo mo mooooooooo mo moo mo m moo--mo mooo moooo mo

commenced reading the following hymn; but changing his manner towards
moooooooo moooooo moo moooooooo mooo; moo mooooooo moo mooooo moooooo

the concluding stanzas, burst forth with a pealing exultation and joy--
moo mooooooooo moooooo, moooo moooo mooo m moooooo mooooooooo moo moo--




     "The ribs and terrors in the whale,
     "Moo mooo moo moooooo mo moo moooo,

     Arched over me a dismal gloom,
     Mooooo mooo mo m mooooo moooo,

     While all God's sun-lit waves rolled by,
     Moooo moo Moo'm moo-moo moooo mooooo mo,

     And lift me deepening down to doom.
     Moo mooo mo moooooooo mooo mo mooo.




     "I saw the opening maw of hell,
     "M moo moo moooooo moo mo mooo,

     With endless pains and sorrows there;
     Mooo moooooo moooo moo moooooo moooo;

     Which none but they that feel can tell--
     Moooo mooo moo mooo mooo mooo moo mooo--

     Oh, I was plunging to despair.
     Mo, M moo mooooooo mo moooooo.




     "In black distress, I called my God,
     "Mo moooo mooooooo, M mooooo mo Moo,

     When I could scarce believe him mine,
     Mooo M moooo mooooo moooooo moo mooo,

     He bowed his ear to my complaints--
     Mo moooo moo moo mo mo mooooooooo--

     No more the whale did me confine.
     Mo mooo moo moooo moo mo moooooo.




     "With speed he flew to my relief,
     "Mooo moooo mo mooo mo mo mooooo,

     As on a radiant dolphin borne;
     Mo mo m moooooo moooooo moooo;

     Awful, yet bright, as lightning shone
     Moooo, moo mooooo, mo moooooooo moooo

     The face of my Deliverer God.
     Moo mooo mo mo Moooooooo Moo.




     "My song for ever shall record
     "Mo mooo moo mooo moooo mooooo

     That terrible, that joyful hour;
     Mooo mooooooo, mooo mooooo mooo;

     I give the glory to my God,
     M mooo moo moooo mo mo Moo,

     His all the mercy and the power."
     Moo moo moo moooo moo moo moooo."







Nearly all joined in singing this hymn, which swelled high above the
Mooooo moo mooooo mo moooooo mooo mooo, moooo moooooo mooo moooo moo

howling of the storm. A brief pause ensued; the preacher slowly turned
moooooo mo moo moooo. M moooo moooo mooooo; moo mooooooo mooooo mooooo

over the leaves of the Bible, and at last, folding his hand down upon
mooo moo mooooo mo moo Moooo, moo mo mooo, moooooo moo mooo mooo mooo

the proper page, said: "Beloved shipmates, clinch the last verse of the
moo mooooo mooo, mooo: "Moooooo moooooooo, mooooo moo mooo moooo mo moo

first chapter of Jonah--'And God had prepared a great fish to swallow up
moooo moooooo mo Moooo--'Moo Moo moo mooooooo m moooo mooo mo moooooo mo

Jonah.'"
Moooo.'"




"Shipmates, this book, containing only four chapters--four yarns--is one
"Moooooooo, mooo mooo, mooooooooo mooo mooo mooooooo--mooo moooo--mo moo

of the smallest strands in the mighty cable of the Scriptures. Yet what
mo moo mooooooo moooooo mo moo mooooo moooo mo moo Mooooooooo. Moo mooo

depths of the soul does Jonah's deep sealine sound! what a pregnant
mooooo mo moo mooo mooo Moooo'm mooo moooooo moooo! mooo m mooooooo

lesson to us is this prophet! What a noble thing is that canticle in the
mooooo mo mo mo mooo moooooo! Mooo m moooo moooo mo mooo mooooooo mo moo

fish's belly! How billow-like and boisterously grand! We feel the floods
mooo'm moooo! Moo mooooo-mooo moo mooooooooooo moooo! Mo mooo moo mooooo

surging over us; we sound with him to the kelpy bottom of the waters;
moooooo mooo mo; mo moooo mooo moo mo moo moooo mooooo mo moo mooooo;

sea-weed and all the slime of the sea is about us! But WHAT is this
moo-mooo moo moo moo moooo mo moo moo mo moooo mo! Moo MOOO mo mooo

lesson that the book of Jonah teaches? Shipmates, it is a two-stranded
mooooo mooo moo mooo mo Moooo moooooo? Moooooooo, mo mo m moo-mooooooo

lesson; a lesson to us all as sinful men, and a lesson to me as a pilot
mooooo; m mooooo mo mo moo mo mooooo moo, moo m mooooo mo mo mo m moooo

of the living God. As sinful men, it is a lesson to us all, because it
mo moo mooooo Moo. Mo mooooo moo, mo mo m mooooo mo mo moo, moooooo mo

is a story of the sin, hard-heartedness, suddenly awakened fears, the
mo m moooo mo moo moo, mooo-moooooooooo, mooooooo mooooooo moooo, moo

swift punishment, repentance, prayers, and finally the deliverance and
moooo mooooooooo, mooooooooo, moooooo, moo moooooo moo moooooooooo moo

joy of Jonah. As with all sinners among men, the sin of this son of
moo mo Moooo. Mo mooo moo moooooo moooo moo, moo moo mo mooo moo mo

Amittai was in his wilful disobedience of the command of God--never
Moooooo moo mo moo mooooo mooooooooooo mo moo moooooo mo Moo--moooo

mind now what that command was, or how conveyed--which he found a hard
mooo moo mooo mooo moooooo moo, mo moo mooooooo--moooo mo moooo m mooo

command. But all the things that God would have us do are hard for us to
moooooo. Moo moo moo mooooo mooo Moo moooo mooo mo mo moo mooo moo mo mo

do--remember that--and hence, he oftener commands us than endeavors to
mo--mooooooo mooo--moo moooo, mo moooooo mooooooo mo mooo moooooooo mo

persuade. And if we obey God, we must disobey ourselves; and it is in
mooooooo. Moo mo mo mooo Moo, mo mooo moooooo moooooooo; moo mo mo mo

this disobeying ourselves, wherein the hardness of obeying God consists.
mooo mooooooooo moooooooo, moooooo moo mooooooo mo moooooo Moo mooooooo.




"With this sin of disobedience in him, Jonah still further flouts at
"Mooo mooo moo mo mooooooooooo mo moo, Moooo moooo moooooo mooooo mo

God, by seeking to flee from Him. He thinks that a ship made by men will
Moo, mo moooooo mo mooo mooo Moo. Mo mooooo mooo m mooo mooo mo moo mooo

carry him into countries where God does not reign, but only the Captains
moooo moo mooo moooooooo moooo Moo mooo moo moooo, moo mooo moo Mooooooo

of this earth. He skulks about the wharves of Joppa, and seeks a ship
mo mooo moooo. Mo mooooo moooo moo moooooo mo Moooo, moo moooo m mooo

that's bound for Tarshish. There lurks, perhaps, a hitherto unheeded
mooo'm moooo moo Mooooooo. Moooo moooo, moooooo, m mooooooo mooooooo

meaning here. By all accounts Tarshish could have been no other city
moooooo mooo. Mo moo mooooooo Mooooooo moooo mooo mooo mo moooo mooo

than the modern Cadiz. That's the opinion of learned men. And where is
mooo moo mooooo Moooo. Mooo'm moo moooooo mo moooooo moo. Moo moooo mo

Cadiz, shipmates? Cadiz is in Spain; as far by water, from Joppa,
Moooo, moooooooo? Moooo mo mo Moooo; mo moo mo moooo, mooo Moooo,

as Jonah could possibly have sailed in those ancient days, when the
mo Moooo moooo mooooooo mooo mooooo mo moooo moooooo mooo, mooo moo

Atlantic was an almost unknown sea. Because Joppa, the modern Jaffa,
Mooooooo moo mo mooooo moooooo moo. Moooooo Moooo, moo mooooo Moooo,

shipmates, is on the most easterly coast of the Mediterranean, the
moooooooo, mo mo moo mooo mooooooo moooo mo moo Moooooooooooo, moo

Syrian; and Tarshish or Cadiz more than two thousand miles to the
Mooooo; moo Mooooooo mo Moooo mooo mooo moo mooooooo moooo mo moo

westward from that, just outside the Straits of Gibraltar. See ye
mooooooo mooo mooo, mooo moooooo moo Moooooo mo Moooooooo. Moo mo

not then, shipmates, that Jonah sought to flee world-wide from God?
moo mooo, moooooooo, mooo Moooo mooooo mo mooo moooo-mooo mooo Moo?

Miserable man! Oh! most contemptible and worthy of all scorn; with
Moooooooo moo! Mo! mooo mooooooooooo moo mooooo mo moo moooo; mooo

slouched hat and guilty eye, skulking from his God; prowling among the
mooooooo moo moo mooooo moo, mooooooo mooo moo Moo; mooooooo moooo moo

shipping like a vile burglar hastening to cross the seas. So disordered,
mooooooo mooo m mooo moooooo moooooooo mo moooo moo mooo. Mo mooooooooo,

self-condemning is his look, that had there been policemen in those
mooo-mooooooooo mo moo mooo, mooo moo moooo mooo moooooooo mo moooo

days, Jonah, on the mere suspicion of something wrong, had been arrested
mooo, Moooo, mo moo mooo moooooooo mo moooooooo moooo, moo mooo mooooooo

ere he touched a deck. How plainly he's a fugitive! no baggage, not a
moo mo moooooo m mooo. Moo moooooo mo'm m mooooooo! mo moooooo, moo m

hat-box, valise, or carpet-bag,--no friends accompany him to the wharf
moo-moo, mooooo, mo mooooo-moo,--mo moooooo moooooooo moo mo moo moooo

with their adieux. At last, after much dodging search, he finds the
mooo moooo mooooo. Mo mooo, moooo mooo moooooo mooooo, mo moooo moo

Tarshish ship receiving the last items of her cargo; and as he steps on
Mooooooo mooo moooooooo moo mooo moooo mo moo moooo; moo mo mo moooo mo

board to see its Captain in the cabin, all the sailors for the moment
moooo mo moo moo Moooooo mo moo moooo, moo moo moooooo moo moo mooooo

desist from hoisting in the goods, to mark the stranger's evil eye.
mooooo mooo mooooooo mo moo moooo, mo mooo moo mooooooo'm mooo moo.

Jonah sees this; but in vain he tries to look all ease and confidence;
Moooo mooo mooo; moo mo mooo mo moooo mo mooo moo mooo moo mooooooooo;

in vain essays his wretched smile. Strong intuitions of the man assure
mo mooo mooooo moo mooooooo moooo. Mooooo mooooooooo mo moo moo mooooo

the mariners he can be no innocent. In their gamesome but still serious
moo mooooooo mo moo mo mo mooooooo. Mo moooo mooooooo moo moooo moooooo

way, one whispers to the other--"Jack, he's robbed a widow;" or, "Joe,
moo, moo mooooooo mo moo moooo--"Mooo, mo'm mooooo m moooo;" mo, "Moo,

do you mark him; he's a bigamist;" or, "Harry lad, I guess he's the
mo moo mooo moo; mo'm m mooooooo;" mo, "Moooo moo, M moooo mo'm moo

adulterer that broke jail in old Gomorrah, or belike, one of the missing
moooooooo mooo moooo mooo mo moo Mooooooo, mo mooooo, moo mo moo moooooo

murderers from Sodom." Another runs to read the bill that's stuck
moooooooo mooo Moooo." Moooooo mooo mo mooo moo mooo mooo'm moooo

against the spile upon the wharf to which the ship is moored, offering
moooooo moo moooo mooo moo moooo mo moooo moo mooo mo mooooo, mooooooo

five hundred gold coins for the apprehension of a parricide, and
mooo moooooo mooo moooo moo moo mooooooooooo mo m moooooooo, moo

containing a description of his person. He reads, and looks from Jonah
mooooooooo m moooooooooo mo moo mooooo. Mo moooo, moo moooo mooo Moooo

to the bill; while all his sympathetic shipmates now crowd round Jonah,
mo moo mooo; moooo moo moo moooooooooo moooooooo moo moooo moooo Moooo,

prepared to lay their hands upon him. Frighted Jonah trembles, and
mooooooo mo moo moooo moooo mooo moo. Mooooooo Moooo mooooooo, moo

summoning all his boldness to his face, only looks so much the more a
moooooooo moo moo mooooooo mo moo mooo, mooo moooo mo mooo moo mooo m

coward. He will not confess himself suspected; but that itself is strong
mooooo. Mo mooo moo moooooo moooooo moooooooo; moo mooo mooooo mo mooooo

suspicion. So he makes the best of it; and when the sailors find him
moooooooo. Mo mo moooo moo mooo mo mo; moo mooo moo moooooo mooo moo

not to be the man that is advertised, they let him pass, and he descends
moo mo mo moo moo mooo mo mooooooooo, mooo moo moo mooo, moo mo mooooooo

into the cabin.
mooo moo moooo.




"'Who's there?' cries the Captain at his busy desk, hurriedly making
"'Moo'm moooo?' moooo moo Moooooo mo moo mooo mooo, moooooooo mooooo

out his papers for the Customs--'Who's there?' Oh! how that harmless
moo moo mooooo moo moo Moooooo--'Moo'm moooo?' Mo! moo mooo mooooooo

question mangles Jonah! For the instant he almost turns to flee again.
mooooooo moooooo Moooo! Moo moo moooooo mo mooooo moooo mo mooo moooo.

But he rallies. 'I seek a passage in this ship to Tarshish; how soon
Moo mo moooooo. 'M mooo m moooooo mo mooo mooo mo Mooooooo; moo mooo

sail ye, sir?' Thus far the busy Captain had not looked up to Jonah,
mooo mo, moo?' Mooo moo moo mooo Moooooo moo moo mooooo mo mo Moooo,

though the man now stands before him; but no sooner does he hear that
mooooo moo moo moo mooooo mooooo moo; moo mo mooooo mooo mo mooo mooo

hollow voice, than he darts a scrutinizing glance. 'We sail with the
mooooo moooo, mooo mo moooo m mooooooooooo mooooo. 'Mo mooo mooo moo

next coming tide,' at last he slowly answered, still intently eyeing
mooo mooooo mooo,' mo mooo mo mooooo mooooooo, moooo mooooooo mooooo

him. 'No sooner, sir?'--'Soon enough for any honest man that goes a
moo. 'Mo mooooo, moo?'--'Mooo mooooo moo moo mooooo moo mooo mooo m

passenger.' Ha! Jonah, that's another stab. But he swiftly calls away
moooooooo.' Mo! Moooo, mooo'm moooooo mooo. Moo mo moooooo moooo mooo

the Captain from that scent. 'I'll sail with ye,'--he says,--'the
moo Moooooo mooo mooo moooo. 'M'mo mooo mooo mo,'--mo mooo,--'moo

passage money how much is that?--I'll pay now.' For it is particularly
moooooo moooo moo mooo mo mooo?--M'mo moo moo.' Moo mo mo mooooooooooo

written, shipmates, as if it were a thing not to be overlooked in this
moooooo, moooooooo, mo mo mo mooo m moooo moo mo mo mooooooooo mo mooo

history, 'that he paid the fare thereof' ere the craft did sail. And
moooooo, 'mooo mo mooo moo mooo moooooo' moo moo moooo moo mooo. Moo

taken with the context, this is full of meaning.
moooo mooo moo moooooo, mooo mo mooo mo moooooo.




"Now Jonah's Captain, shipmates, was one whose discernment detects crime
"Moo Moooo'm Moooooo, moooooooo, moo moo moooo moooooooooo moooooo moooo

in any, but whose cupidity exposes it only in the penniless. In this
mo moo, moo moooo mooooooo moooooo mo mooo mo moo moooooooo. Mo mooo

world, shipmates, sin that pays its way can travel freely, and without
moooo, moooooooo, moo mooo mooo moo moo moo mooooo mooooo, moo moooooo

a passport; whereas Virtue, if a pauper, is stopped at all frontiers.
m mooooooo; moooooo Mooooo, mo m mooooo, mo moooooo mo moo moooooooo.

So Jonah's Captain prepares to test the length of Jonah's purse, ere he
Mo Moooo'm Moooooo mooooooo mo mooo moo mooooo mo Moooo'm moooo, moo mo

judge him openly. He charges him thrice the usual sum; and it's assented
moooo moo mooooo. Mo moooooo moo mooooo moo moooo moo; moo mo'm mooooooo

to. Then the Captain knows that Jonah is a fugitive; but at the same
mo. Mooo moo Moooooo moooo mooo Moooo mo m mooooooo; moo mo moo mooo

time resolves to help a flight that paves its rear with gold. Yet when
mooo mooooooo mo mooo m mooooo mooo moooo moo mooo mooo mooo. Moo mooo

Jonah fairly takes out his purse, prudent suspicions still molest the
Moooo mooooo moooo moo moo moooo, moooooo mooooooooo moooo mooooo moo

Captain. He rings every coin to find a counterfeit. Not a forger, any
Moooooo. Mo moooo moooo mooo mo mooo m moooooooooo. Moo m mooooo, moo

way, he mutters; and Jonah is put down for his passage. 'Point out my
moo, mo moooooo; moo Moooo mo moo mooo moo moo moooooo. 'Moooo moo mo

state-room, Sir,' says Jonah now, 'I'm travel-weary; I need sleep.'
moooo-mooo, Moo,' mooo Moooo moo, 'M'm mooooo-moooo; M mooo moooo.'

'Thou lookest like it,' says the Captain, 'there's thy room.' Jonah
'Mooo moooooo mooo mo,' mooo moo Moooooo, 'moooo'm moo mooo.' Moooo

enters, and would lock the door, but the lock contains no key. Hearing
mooooo, moo moooo mooo moo mooo, moo moo mooo mooooooo mo moo. Moooooo

him foolishly fumbling there, the Captain laughs lowly to himself, and
moo moooooooo mooooooo moooo, moo Moooooo mooooo moooo mo moooooo, moo

mutters something about the doors of convicts' cells being never allowed
moooooo moooooooo moooo moo moooo mo mooooooo' moooo moooo moooo moooooo

to be locked within. All dressed and dusty as he is, Jonah throws
mo mo mooooo mooooo. Moo moooooo moo moooo mo mo mo, Moooo mooooo

himself into his berth, and finds the little state-room ceiling almost
moooooo mooo moo moooo, moo moooo moo mooooo moooo-mooo moooooo mooooo

resting on his forehead. The air is close, and Jonah gasps. Then, in
moooooo mo moo mooooooo. Moo moo mo moooo, moo Moooo moooo. Mooo, mo

that contracted hole, sunk, too, beneath the ship's water-line, Jonah
mooo mooooooooo mooo, mooo, moo, moooooo moo mooo'm moooo-mooo, Moooo

feels the heralding presentiment of that stifling hour, when the whale
moooo moo moooooooo mooooooooooo mo mooo mooooooo mooo, mooo moo moooo

shall hold him in the smallest of his bowels' wards.
moooo mooo moo mo moo mooooooo mo moo mooooo' moooo.




"Screwed at its axis against the side, a swinging lamp slightly
"Moooooo mo moo mooo moooooo moo mooo, m mooooooo mooo mooooooo

oscillates in Jonah's room; and the ship, heeling over towards the wharf
mooooooooo mo Moooo'm mooo; moo moo mooo, moooooo mooo moooooo moo moooo

with the weight of the last bales received, the lamp, flame and all,
mooo moo mooooo mo moo mooo moooo mooooooo, moo mooo, moooo moo moo,

though in slight motion, still maintains a permanent obliquity with
mooooo mo mooooo mooooo, moooo moooooooo m moooooooo moooooooo mooo

reference to the room; though, in truth, infallibly straight itself, it
moooooooo mo moo mooo; mooooo, mo moooo, mooooooooo mooooooo mooooo, mo

but made obvious the false, lying levels among which it hung. The lamp
moo mooo moooooo moo moooo, moooo mooooo moooo moooo mo mooo. Moo mooo

alarms and frightens Jonah; as lying in his berth his tormented eyes
mooooo moo moooooooo Moooo; mo moooo mo moo moooo moo moooooooo mooo

roll round the place, and this thus far successful fugitive finds no
mooo moooo moo moooo, moo mooo mooo moo mooooooooo mooooooo moooo mo

refuge for his restless glance. But that contradiction in the lamp more
mooooo moo moo mooooooo mooooo. Moo mooo moooooooooooo mo moo mooo mooo

and more appals him. The floor, the ceiling, and the side, are all awry.
moo mooo mooooo moo. Moo moooo, moo moooooo, moo moo mooo, moo moo mooo.

'Oh! so my conscience hangs in me!' he groans, 'straight upwards, so it
'Mo! mo mo mooooooooo moooo mo mo!' mo mooooo, 'mooooooo moooooo, mo mo

burns; but the chambers of my soul are all in crookedness!'
moooo; moo moo mooooooo mo mo mooo moo moo mo moooooooooo!'




"Like one who after a night of drunken revelry hies to his bed, still
"Mooo moo moo moooo m moooo mo moooooo moooooo mooo mo moo moo, moooo

reeling, but with conscience yet pricking him, as the plungings of the
moooooo, moo mooo mooooooooo moo mooooooo moo, mo moo moooooooo mo moo

Roman race-horse but so much the more strike his steel tags into him; as
Moooo mooo-moooo moo mo mooo moo mooo mooooo moo moooo mooo mooo moo; mo

one who in that miserable plight still turns and turns in giddy anguish,
moo moo mo mooo moooooooo mooooo moooo moooo moo moooo mo moooo moooooo,

praying God for annihilation until the fit be passed; and at last amid
moooooo Moo moo mooooooooooo moooo moo moo mo mooooo; moo mo mooo mooo

the whirl of woe he feels, a deep stupor steals over him, as over the
moo moooo mo moo mo moooo, m mooo mooooo mooooo mooo moo, mo mooo moo

man who bleeds to death, for conscience is the wound, and there's naught
moo moo mooooo mo moooo, moo mooooooooo mo moo moooo, moo moooo'm mooooo

to staunch it; so, after sore wrestlings in his berth, Jonah's prodigy
mo moooooo mo; mo, moooo mooo mooooooooo mo moo moooo, Moooo'm moooooo

of ponderous misery drags him drowning down to sleep.
mo moooooooo mooooo moooo moo mooooooo mooo mo moooo.




"And now the time of tide has come; the ship casts off her cables; and
"Moo moo moo mooo mo mooo moo mooo; moo mooo moooo moo moo mooooo; moo

from the deserted wharf the uncheered ship for Tarshish, all careening,
mooo moo mooooooo moooo moo moooooooo mooo moo Mooooooo, moo moooooooo,

glides to sea. That ship, my friends, was the first of recorded
mooooo mo moo. Mooo mooo, mo moooooo, moo moo moooo mo mooooooo

smugglers! the contraband was Jonah. But the sea rebels; he will not
moooooooo! moo mooooooooo moo Moooo. Moo moo moo mooooo; mo mooo moo

bear the wicked burden. A dreadful storm comes on, the ship is like to
mooo moo mooooo mooooo. M mooooooo moooo moooo mo, moo mooo mo mooo mo

break. But now when the boatswain calls all hands to lighten her;
moooo. Moo moo mooo moo moooooooo moooo moo moooo mo moooooo moo;

when boxes, bales, and jars are clattering overboard; when the wind
mooo moooo, moooo, moo mooo moo mooooooooo moooooooo; mooo moo mooo

is shrieking, and the men are yelling, and every plank thunders with
mo moooooooo, moo moo moo moo moooooo, moo moooo moooo mooooooo mooo

trampling feet right over Jonah's head; in all this raging tumult, Jonah
moooooooo mooo moooo mooo Moooo'm mooo; mo moo mooo mooooo mooooo, Moooo

sleeps his hideous sleep. He sees no black sky and raging sea, feels not
mooooo moo moooooo moooo. Mo mooo mo moooo moo moo mooooo moo, moooo moo

the reeling timbers, and little hears he or heeds he the far rush of the
moo moooooo moooooo, moo mooooo moooo mo mo moooo mo moo moo mooo mo moo

mighty whale, which even now with open mouth is cleaving the seas after
mooooo moooo, moooo mooo moo mooo mooo moooo mo mooooooo moo mooo moooo

him. Aye, shipmates, Jonah was gone down into the sides of the ship--a
moo. Moo, moooooooo, Moooo moo mooo mooo mooo moo moooo mo moo mooo--m

berth in the cabin as I have taken it, and was fast asleep. But the
moooo mo moo moooo mo M mooo moooo mo, moo moo mooo mooooo. Moo moo

frightened master comes to him, and shrieks in his dead ear, 'What
mooooooooo mooooo moooo mo moo, moo moooooo mo moo mooo moo, 'Mooo

meanest thou, O, sleeper! arise!' Startled from his lethargy by that
moooooo mooo, M, moooooo! moooo!' Mooooooo mooo moo mooooooo mo mooo

direful cry, Jonah staggers to his feet, and stumbling to the deck,
moooooo moo, Moooo mooooooo mo moo mooo, moo moooooooo mo moo mooo,

grasps a shroud, to look out upon the sea. But at that moment he is
mooooo m mooooo, mo mooo moo mooo moo moo. Moo mo mooo mooooo mo mo

sprung upon by a panther billow leaping over the bulwarks. Wave after
mooooo mooo mo m moooooo mooooo moooooo mooo moo mooooooo. Mooo moooo

wave thus leaps into the ship, and finding no speedy vent runs roaring
mooo mooo moooo mooo moo mooo, moo moooooo mo mooooo mooo mooo moooooo

fore and aft, till the mariners come nigh to drowning while yet afloat.
mooo moo moo, mooo moo mooooooo mooo mooo mo mooooooo moooo moo mooooo.

And ever, as the white moon shows her affrighted face from the steep
Moo mooo, mo moo moooo mooo moooo moo mooooooooo mooo mooo moo moooo

gullies in the blackness overhead, aghast Jonah sees the rearing
moooooo mo moo moooooooo mooooooo, mooooo Moooo mooo moo moooooo

bowsprit pointing high upward, but soon beat downward again towards the
mooooooo mooooooo mooo mooooo, moo mooo mooo mooooooo moooo moooooo moo

tormented deep.
moooooooo mooo.




"Terrors upon terrors run shouting through his soul. In all his cringing
"Moooooo mooo moooooo moo mooooooo moooooo moo mooo. Mo moo moo mooooooo

attitudes, the God-fugitive is now too plainly known. The sailors mark
moooooooo, moo Moo-mooooooo mo moo moo moooooo moooo. Moo moooooo mooo

him; more and more certain grow their suspicions of him, and at last,
moo; mooo moo mooo moooooo mooo moooo mooooooooo mo moo, moo mo mooo,

fully to test the truth, by referring the whole matter to high Heaven,
moooo mo mooo moo moooo, mo moooooooo moo moooo mooooo mo mooo Mooooo,

they fall to casting lots, to see for whose cause this great tempest was
mooo mooo mo moooooo mooo, mo moo moo moooo moooo mooo moooo moooooo moo

upon them. The lot is Jonah's; that discovered, then how furiously they
mooo mooo. Moo moo mo Moooo'm; mooo mooooooooo, mooo moo moooooooo mooo

mob him with their questions. 'What is thine occupation? Whence comest
moo moo mooo moooo moooooooo. 'Mooo mo moooo mooooooooo? Mooooo mooooo

thou? Thy country? What people? But mark now, my shipmates, the behavior
mooo? Moo moooooo? Mooo mooooo? Moo mooo moo, mo moooooooo, moo mooooooo

of poor Jonah. The eager mariners but ask him who he is, and where
mo mooo Moooo. Moo moooo mooooooo moo moo moo moo mo mo, moo moooo

from; whereas, they not only receive an answer to those questions,
mooo; moooooo, mooo moo mooo moooooo mo mooooo mo moooo moooooooo,

but likewise another answer to a question not put by them, but the
moo mooooooo moooooo mooooo mo m mooooooo moo moo mo mooo, moo moo

unsolicited answer is forced from Jonah by the hard hand of God that is
moooooooooo mooooo mo mooooo mooo Moooo mo moo mooo mooo mo Moo mooo mo

upon him.
mooo moo.




"'I am a Hebrew,' he cries--and then--'I fear the Lord the God of Heaven
"'M mo m Mooooo,' mo moooo--moo mooo--'M mooo moo Mooo moo Moo mo Mooooo

who hath made the sea and the dry land!' Fear him, O Jonah? Aye, well
moo mooo mooo moo moo moo moo moo mooo!' Mooo moo, M Moooo? Moo, mooo

mightest thou fear the Lord God THEN! Straightway, he now goes on to
mooooooo mooo mooo moo Mooo Moo MOOO! Moooooooooo, mo moo mooo mo mo

make a full confession; whereupon the mariners became more and more
mooo m mooo mooooooooo; moooooooo moo mooooooo mooooo mooo moo mooo

appalled, but still are pitiful. For when Jonah, not yet supplicating
mooooooo, moo moooo moo moooooo. Moo mooo Moooo, moo moo mooooooooooo

God for mercy, since he but too well knew the darkness of his
Moo moo moooo, moooo mo moo moo mooo mooo moo mooooooo mo moo

deserts,--when wretched Jonah cries out to them to take him and cast him
moooooo,--mooo mooooooo Moooo moooo moo mo mooo mo mooo moo moo mooo moo

forth into the sea, for he knew that for HIS sake this great tempest
moooo mooo moo moo, moo mo mooo mooo moo MOO mooo mooo moooo moooooo

was upon them; they mercifully turn from him, and seek by other means to
moo mooo mooo; mooo mooooooooo mooo mooo moo, moo mooo mo moooo moooo mo

save the ship. But all in vain; the indignant gale howls louder;
mooo moo mooo. Moo moo mo mooo; moo moooooooo mooo moooo mooooo;

then, with one hand raised invokingly to God, with the other they not
mooo, mooo moo mooo mooooo mooooooooo mo Moo, mooo moo moooo mooo moo

unreluctantly lay hold of Jonah.
moooooooooooo moo mooo mo Moooo.




"And now behold Jonah taken up as an anchor and dropped into the sea;
"Moo moo mooooo Moooo moooo mo mo mo mooooo moo moooooo mooo moo moo;

when instantly an oily calmness floats out from the east, and the sea
mooo moooooooo mo mooo mooooooo mooooo moo mooo moo mooo, moo moo moo

is still, as Jonah carries down the gale with him, leaving smooth
mo moooo, mo Moooo moooooo mooo moo mooo mooo moo, moooooo mooooo

water behind. He goes down in the whirling heart of such a masterless
moooo mooooo. Mo mooo mooo mo moo mooooooo moooo mo mooo m mooooooooo

commotion that he scarce heeds the moment when he drops seething into
moooooooo mooo mo mooooo moooo moo mooooo mooo mo moooo mooooooo mooo

the yawning jaws awaiting him; and the whale shoots-to all his ivory
moo moooooo mooo mooooooo moo; moo moo moooo mooooo-mo moo moo moooo

teeth, like so many white bolts, upon his prison. Then Jonah prayed unto
moooo, mooo mo mooo moooo moooo, mooo moo mooooo. Mooo Moooo mooooo mooo

the Lord out of the fish's belly. But observe his prayer, and learn a
moo Mooo moo mo moo mooo'm moooo. Moo moooooo moo mooooo, moo moooo m

weighty lesson. For sinful as he is, Jonah does not weep and wail for
moooooo mooooo. Moo mooooo mo mo mo, Moooo mooo moo mooo moo mooo moo

direct deliverance. He feels that his dreadful punishment is just. He
mooooo moooooooooo. Mo moooo mooo moo mooooooo mooooooooo mo mooo. Mo

leaves all his deliverance to God, contenting himself with this, that
mooooo moo moo moooooooooo mo Moo, mooooooooo moooooo mooo mooo, mooo

spite of all his pains and pangs, he will still look towards His holy
moooo mo moo moo moooo moo moooo, mo mooo moooo mooo moooooo Moo mooo

temple. And here, shipmates, is true and faithful repentance; not
mooooo. Moo mooo, moooooooo, mo mooo moo mooooooo mooooooooo; moo

clamorous for pardon, but grateful for punishment. And how pleasing to
moooooooo moo mooooo, moo mooooooo moo mooooooooo. Moo moo mooooooo mo

God was this conduct in Jonah, is shown in the eventual deliverance of
Moo moo mooo moooooo mo Moooo, mo moooo mo moo mooooooo moooooooooo mo

him from the sea and the whale. Shipmates, I do not place Jonah before
moo mooo moo moo moo moo moooo. Moooooooo, M mo moo moooo Moooo mooooo

you to be copied for his sin but I do place him before you as a model
moo mo mo mooooo moo moo moo moo M mo moooo moo mooooo moo mo m moooo

for repentance. Sin not; but if you do, take heed to repent of it like
moo mooooooooo. Moo moo; moo mo moo mo, mooo mooo mo mooooo mo mo mooo

Jonah."
Moooo."




While he was speaking these words, the howling of the shrieking,
Moooo mo moo mooooooo moooo moooo, moo moooooo mo moo moooooooo,

slanting storm without seemed to add new power to the preacher, who,
mooooooo moooo moooooo mooooo mo moo moo moooo mo moo mooooooo, moo,

when describing Jonah's sea-storm, seemed tossed by a storm himself.
mooo mooooooooo Moooo'm moo-moooo, mooooo mooooo mo m moooo moooooo.

His deep chest heaved as with a ground-swell; his tossed arms seemed the
Moo mooo moooo mooooo mo mooo m mooooo-moooo; moo mooooo mooo mooooo moo

warring elements at work; and the thunders that rolled away from off his
moooooo mooooooo mo mooo; moo moo mooooooo mooo mooooo mooo mooo moo moo

swarthy brow, and the light leaping from his eye, made all his simple
moooooo mooo, moo moo moooo moooooo mooo moo moo, mooo moo moo mooooo

hearers look on him with a quick fear that was strange to them.
moooooo mooo mo moo mooo m moooo mooo mooo moo moooooo mo mooo.




There now came a lull in his look, as he silently turned over the leaves
Moooo moo mooo m mooo mo moo mooo, mo mo mooooooo mooooo mooo moo mooooo

of the Book once more; and, at last, standing motionless, with closed
mo moo Mooo mooo mooo; moo, mo mooo, mooooooo mooooooooo, mooo mooooo

eyes, for the moment, seemed communing with God and himself.
mooo, moo moo mooooo, mooooo moooooooo mooo Moo moo moooooo.




But again he leaned over towards the people, and bowing his head lowly,
Moo moooo mo mooooo mooo moooooo moo mooooo, moo mooooo moo mooo moooo,

with an aspect of the deepest yet manliest humility, he spake these
mooo mo mooooo mo moo moooooo moo mooooooo mooooooo, mo moooo moooo

words:
moooo:




"Shipmates, God has laid but one hand upon you; both his hands press
"Moooooooo, Moo moo mooo moo moo mooo mooo moo; mooo moo moooo moooo

upon me. I have read ye by what murky light may be mine the lesson that
mooo mo. M mooo mooo mo mo mooo moooo moooo moo mo mooo moo mooooo mooo

Jonah teaches to all sinners; and therefore to ye, and still more to me,
Moooo moooooo mo moo moooooo; moo moooooooo mo mo, moo moooo mooo mo mo,

for I am a greater sinner than ye. And now how gladly would I come down
moo M mo m moooooo mooooo mooo mo. Moo moo moo mooooo moooo M mooo mooo

from this mast-head and sit on the hatches there where you sit, and
mooo mooo mooo-mooo moo moo mo moo moooooo moooo moooo moo moo, moo

listen as you listen, while some one of you reads ME that other and more
mooooo mo moo mooooo, moooo mooo moo mo moo moooo MO mooo moooo moo mooo

awful lesson which Jonah teaches to ME, as a pilot of the living God.
moooo mooooo moooo Moooo moooooo mo MO, mo m moooo mo moo mooooo Moo.

How being an anointed pilot-prophet, or speaker of true things, and
Moo moooo mo mooooooo moooo-moooooo, mo moooooo mo mooo mooooo, moo

bidden by the Lord to sound those unwelcome truths in the ears of a
mooooo mo moo Mooo mo moooo moooo moooooooo mooooo mo moo mooo mo m

wicked Nineveh, Jonah, appalled at the hostility he should raise, fled
mooooo Moooooo, Moooo, mooooooo mo moo moooooooo mo mooooo moooo, mooo

from his mission, and sought to escape his duty and his God by taking
mooo moo moooooo, moo mooooo mo mooooo moo mooo moo moo Moo mo mooooo

ship at Joppa. But God is everywhere; Tarshish he never reached. As we
mooo mo Moooo. Moo Moo mo mooooooooo; Mooooooo mo moooo moooooo. Mo mo

have seen, God came upon him in the whale, and swallowed him down to
mooo mooo, Moo mooo mooo moo mo moo moooo, moo moooooooo moo mooo mo

living gulfs of doom, and with swift slantings tore him along 'into the
mooooo moooo mo mooo, moo mooo moooo moooooooo mooo moo moooo 'mooo moo

midst of the seas,' where the eddying depths sucked him ten thousand
moooo mo moo mooo,' moooo moo moooooo mooooo mooooo moo moo mooooooo

fathoms down, and 'the weeds were wrapped about his head,' and all the
moooooo mooo, moo 'moo moooo mooo moooooo moooo moo mooo,' moo moo moo

watery world of woe bowled over him. Yet even then beyond the reach of
mooooo moooo mo moo mooooo mooo moo. Moo mooo mooo mooooo moo moooo mo

any plummet--'out of the belly of hell'--when the whale grounded upon
moo moooooo--'moo mo moo moooo mo mooo'--mooo moo moooo mooooooo mooo

the ocean's utmost bones, even then, God heard the engulphed, repenting
moo moooo'm mooooo moooo, mooo mooo, Moo moooo moo moooooooo, moooooooo

prophet when he cried. Then God spake unto the fish; and from the
moooooo mooo mo moooo. Mooo Moo moooo mooo moo mooo; moo mooo moo

shuddering cold and blackness of the sea, the whale came breeching
mooooooooo mooo moo moooooooo mo moo moo, moo moooo mooo moooooooo

up towards the warm and pleasant sun, and all the delights of air and
mo moooooo moo mooo moo mooooooo moo, moo moo moo mooooooo mo moo moo

earth; and 'vomited out Jonah upon the dry land;' when the word of the
moooo; moo 'moooooo moo Moooo mooo moo moo mooo;' mooo moo mooo mo moo

Lord came a second time; and Jonah, bruised and beaten--his ears, like
Mooo mooo m mooooo mooo; moo Moooo, moooooo moo mooooo--moo mooo, mooo

two sea-shells, still multitudinously murmuring of the ocean--Jonah
moo moo-mooooo, moooo moooooooooooooo moooooooo mo moo moooo--Moooo

did the Almighty's bidding. And what was that, shipmates? To preach the
moo moo Mooooooo'm moooooo. Moo mooo moo mooo, moooooooo? Mo mooooo moo

Truth to the face of Falsehood! That was it!
Moooo mo moo mooo mo Moooooooo! Mooo moo mo!




"This, shipmates, this is that other lesson; and woe to that pilot of
"Mooo, moooooooo, mooo mo mooo moooo mooooo; moo moo mo mooo moooo mo

the living God who slights it. Woe to him whom this world charms from
moo mooooo Moo moo moooooo mo. Moo mo moo mooo mooo moooo mooooo mooo

Gospel duty! Woe to him who seeks to pour oil upon the waters when God
Mooooo mooo! Moo mo moo moo moooo mo mooo moo mooo moo mooooo mooo Moo

has brewed them into a gale! Woe to him who seeks to please rather than
moo mooooo mooo mooo m mooo! Moo mo moo moo moooo mo mooooo mooooo mooo

to appal! Woe to him whose good name is more to him than goodness! Woe
mo moooo! Moo mo moo moooo mooo mooo mo mooo mo moo mooo mooooooo! Moo

to him who, in this world, courts not dishonour! Woe to him who would
mo moo moo, mo mooo moooo, mooooo moo moooooooo! Moo mo moo moo moooo

not be true, even though to be false were salvation! Yea, woe to him
moo mo mooo, mooo mooooo mo mo moooo mooo moooooooo! Moo, moo mo moo

who, as the great Pilot Paul has it, while preaching to others is
moo, mo moo moooo Moooo Mooo moo mo, moooo moooooooo mo mooooo mo

himself a castaway!"
moooooo m mooooooo!"




He dropped and fell away from himself for a moment; then lifting his
Mo moooooo moo mooo mooo mooo moooooo moo m mooooo; mooo moooooo moo

face to them again, showed a deep joy in his eyes, as he cried out with
mooo mo mooo moooo, mooooo m mooo moo mo moo mooo, mo mo moooo moo mooo

a heavenly enthusiasm,--"But oh! shipmates! on the starboard hand of
m mooooooo mooooooooo,--"Moo mo! moooooooo! mo moo moooooooo mooo mo

every woe, there is a sure delight; and higher the top of that delight,
moooo moo, moooo mo m mooo moooooo; moo mooooo moo moo mo mooo moooooo,

than the bottom of the woe is deep. Is not the main-truck higher than
mooo moo mooooo mo moo moo mo mooo. Mo moo moo mooo-moooo mooooo mooo

the kelson is low? Delight is to him--a far, far upward, and inward
moo mooooo mo moo? Moooooo mo mo moo--m moo, moo mooooo, moo mooooo

delight--who against the proud gods and commodores of this earth, ever
moooooo--moo moooooo moo moooo mooo moo mooooooooo mo mooo moooo, mooo

stands forth his own inexorable self. Delight is to him whose strong
mooooo moooo moo moo mooooooooo mooo. Moooooo mo mo moo moooo mooooo

arms yet support him, when the ship of this base treacherous world has
mooo moo moooooo moo, mooo moo mooo mo mooo mooo moooooooooo moooo moo

gone down beneath him. Delight is to him, who gives no quarter in the
mooo mooo moooooo moo. Moooooo mo mo moo, moo moooo mo moooooo mo moo

truth, and kills, burns, and destroys all sin though he pluck it out
moooo, moo moooo, moooo, moo mooooooo moo moo mooooo mo moooo mo moo

from under the robes of Senators and Judges. Delight,--top-gallant
mooo moooo moo moooo mo Mooooooo moo Mooooo. Moooooo,--moo-moooooo

delight is to him, who acknowledges no law or lord, but the Lord his
moooooo mo mo moo, moo mooooooooooo mo moo mo mooo, moo moo Mooo moo

God, and is only a patriot to heaven. Delight is to him, whom all the
Moo, moo mo mooo m moooooo mo mooooo. Moooooo mo mo moo, mooo moo moo

waves of the billows of the seas of the boisterous mob can never shake
moooo mo moo moooooo mo moo mooo mo moo mooooooooo moo moo moooo moooo

from this sure Keel of the Ages. And eternal delight and deliciousness
mooo mooo mooo Mooo mo moo Mooo. Moo moooooo moooooo moo moooooooooooo

will be his, who coming to lay him down, can say with his final
mooo mo moo, moo mooooo mo moo moo mooo, moo moo mooo moo moooo

breath--O Father!--chiefly known to me by Thy rod--mortal or immortal,
mooooo--M Mooooo!--moooooo moooo mo mo mo Moo moo--mooooo mo mooooooo,

here I die. I have striven to be Thine, more than to be this world's, or
mooo M moo. M mooo moooooo mo mo Moooo, mooo mooo mo mo mooo moooo'm, mo

mine own. Yet this is nothing: I leave eternity to Thee; for what is man
mooo moo. Moo mooo mo moooooo: M moooo mooooooo mo Mooo; moo mooo mo moo

that he should live out the lifetime of his God?"
mooo mo mooooo mooo moo moo mooooooo mo moo Moo?"




He said no more, but slowly waving a benediction, covered his face with
Mo mooo mo mooo, moo mooooo mooooo m moooooooooo, moooooo moo mooo mooo

his hands, and so remained kneeling, till all the people had departed,
moo moooo, moo mo mooooooo mooooooo, mooo moo moo mooooo moo mooooooo,

and he was left alone in the place.
moo mo moo mooo moooo mo moo moooo.










CHAPTER 10. A Bosom Friend.
MOOOOOO mo. M Moooo Mooooo.







Returning to the Spouter-Inn from the Chapel, I found Queequeg there
Moooooooo mo moo Moooooo-Moo mooo moo Mooooo, M moooo Mooooooo moooo

quite alone; he having left the Chapel before the benediction some time.
moooo moooo; mo mooooo mooo moo Mooooo mooooo moo moooooooooo mooo mooo.

He was sitting on a bench before the fire, with his feet on the stove
Mo moo moooooo mo m moooo mooooo moo mooo, mooo moo mooo mo moo moooo

hearth, and in one hand was holding close up to his face that little
mooooo, moo mo moo mooo moo moooooo moooo mo mo moo mooo mooo mooooo

negro idol of his; peering hard into its face, and with a jack-knife
moooo mooo mo moo; moooooo mooo mooo moo mooo, moo mooo m mooo-moooo

gently whittling away at its nose, meanwhile humming to himself in his
mooooo moooooooo mooo mo moo mooo, moooooooo moooooo mo moooooo mo moo

heathenish way.
mooooooooo moo.




But being now interrupted, he put up the image; and pretty soon, going
Moo moooo moo moooooooooo, mo moo mo moo moooo; moo mooooo mooo, moooo

to the table, took up a large book there, and placing it on his lap
mo moo moooo, mooo mo m moooo mooo moooo, moo moooooo mo mo moo moo

began counting the pages with deliberate regularity; at every fiftieth
moooo mooooooo moo moooo mooo mooooooooo mooooooooo; mo moooo mooooooo

page--as I fancied--stopping a moment, looking vacantly around him, and
mooo--mo M moooooo--mooooooo m mooooo, moooooo mooooooo mooooo moo, moo

giving utterance to a long-drawn gurgling whistle of astonishment. He
mooooo moooooooo mo m mooo-moooo mooooooo moooooo mo mooooooooooo. Mo

would then begin again at the next fifty; seeming to commence at number
moooo mooo moooo moooo mo moo mooo moooo; moooooo mo mooooooo mo mooooo

one each time, as though he could not count more than fifty, and it was
moo mooo mooo, mo mooooo mo moooo moo moooo mooo mooo moooo, moo mo moo

only by such a large number of fifties being found together, that his
mooo mo mooo m moooo mooooo mo moooooo moooo moooo mooooooo, mooo moo

astonishment at the multitude of pages was excited.
mooooooooooo mo moo moooooooo mo moooo moo moooooo.




With much interest I sat watching him. Savage though he was, and
Mooo mooo mooooooo M moo mooooooo moo. Mooooo mooooo mo moo, moo

hideously marred about the face--at least to my taste--his countenance
moooooooo mooooo moooo moo mooo--mo moooo mo mo moooo--moo moooooooooo

yet had a something in it which was by no means disagreeable. You cannot
moo moo m moooooooo mo mo moooo moo mo mo moooo mooooooooooo. Moo mooooo

hide the soul. Through all his unearthly tattooings, I thought I saw
mooo moo mooo. Moooooo moo moo moooooooo mooooooooo, M moooooo M moo

the traces of a simple honest heart; and in his large, deep eyes,
moo mooooo mo m mooooo mooooo moooo; moo mo moo moooo, mooo mooo,

fiery black and bold, there seemed tokens of a spirit that would dare a
moooo moooo moo mooo, moooo mooooo mooooo mo m mooooo mooo moooo mooo m

thousand devils. And besides all this, there was a certain lofty bearing
mooooooo mooooo. Moo moooooo moo mooo, moooo moo m moooooo moooo moooooo

about the Pagan, which even his uncouthness could not altogether maim.
moooo moo Moooo, moooo mooo moo moooooooooo moooo moo mooooooooo mooo.

He looked like a man who had never cringed and never had had a creditor.
Mo mooooo mooo m moo moo moo moooo moooooo moo moooo moo moo m mooooooo.

Whether it was, too, that his head being shaved, his forehead was drawn
Moooooo mo moo, moo, mooo moo mooo moooo mooooo, moo mooooooo moo moooo

out in freer and brighter relief, and looked more expansive than it
moo mo moooo moo mooooooo mooooo, moo mooooo mooo moooooooo mooo mo

otherwise would, this I will not venture to decide; but certain it was
moooooooo moooo, mooo M mooo moo moooooo mo mooooo; moo moooooo mo moo

his head was phrenologically an excellent one. It may seem ridiculous,
moo mooo moo moooooooooooooo mo moooooooo moo. Mo moo mooo mooooooooo,

but it reminded me of General Washington's head, as seen in the popular
moo mo mooooooo mo mo Moooooo Mooooooooo'm mooo, mo mooo mo moo moooooo

busts of him. It had the same long regularly graded retreating slope
moooo mo moo. Mo moo moo mooo mooo moooooooo mooooo mooooooooo moooo

from above the brows, which were likewise very projecting, like two
mooo moooo moo moooo, moooo mooo mooooooo mooo mooooooooo, mooo moo

long promontories thickly wooded on top. Queequeg was George Washington
mooo mooooooooooo moooooo mooooo mo moo. Mooooooo moo Mooooo Mooooooooo

cannibalistically developed.
moooooooooooooooo moooooooo.




Whilst I was thus closely scanning him, half-pretending meanwhile to be
Mooooo M moo mooo moooooo mooooooo moo, mooo-mooooooooo moooooooo mo mo

looking out at the storm from the casement, he never heeded my presence,
moooooo moo mo moo moooo mooo moo mooooooo, mo moooo mooooo mo mooooooo,

never troubled himself with so much as a single glance; but appeared
moooo mooooooo moooooo mooo mo mooo mo m mooooo mooooo; moo mooooooo

wholly occupied with counting the pages of the marvellous book.
mooooo mooooooo mooo mooooooo moo moooo mo moo mooooooooo mooo.

Considering how sociably we had been sleeping together the night
Moooooooooo moo mooooooo mo moo mooo mooooooo mooooooo moo moooo

previous, and especially considering the affectionate arm I had found
mooooooo, moo mooooooooo moooooooooo moo mooooooooooo moo M moo moooo

thrown over me upon waking in the morning, I thought this indifference
mooooo mooo mo mooo mooooo mo moo moooooo, M moooooo mooo mooooooooooo

of his very strange. But savages are strange beings; at times you do not
mo moo mooo moooooo. Moo moooooo moo moooooo mooooo; mo moooo moo mo moo

know exactly how to take them. At first they are overawing; their calm
mooo moooooo moo mo mooo mooo. Mo moooo mooo moo moooooooo; moooo mooo

self-collectedness of simplicity seems a Socratic wisdom. I had noticed
mooo-moooooooooooo mo mooooooooo moooo m Mooooooo mooooo. M moo moooooo

also that Queequeg never consorted at all, or but very little, with the
mooo mooo Mooooooo moooo moooooooo mo moo, mo moo mooo mooooo, mooo moo

other seamen in the inn. He made no advances whatever; appeared to have
moooo mooooo mo moo moo. Mo mooo mo mooooooo mooooooo; mooooooo mo mooo

no desire to enlarge the circle of his acquaintances. All this struck
mo mooooo mo moooooo moo mooooo mo moo moooooooooooo. Moo mooo mooooo

me as mighty singular; yet, upon second thoughts, there was something
mo mo mooooo mooooooo; moo, mooo mooooo mooooooo, moooo moo moooooooo

almost sublime in it. Here was a man some twenty thousand miles from
mooooo moooooo mo mo. Mooo moo m moo mooo mooooo mooooooo moooo mooo

home, by the way of Cape Horn, that is--which was the only way he could
mooo, mo moo moo mo Mooo Mooo, mooo mo--moooo moo moo mooo moo mo moooo

get there--thrown among people as strange to him as though he were in
moo moooo--mooooo moooo mooooo mo moooooo mo moo mo mooooo mo mooo mo

the planet Jupiter; and yet he seemed entirely at his ease; preserving
moo mooooo Moooooo; moo moo mo mooooo mooooooo mo moo mooo; mooooooooo

the utmost serenity; content with his own companionship; always equal to
moo mooooo mooooooo; moooooo mooo moo moo moooooooooooo; mooooo moooo mo

himself. Surely this was a touch of fine philosophy; though no doubt he
moooooo. Mooooo mooo moo m moooo mo mooo mooooooooo; mooooo mo moooo mo

had never heard there was such a thing as that. But, perhaps, to be
moo moooo moooo moooo moo mooo m moooo mo mooo. Moo, moooooo, mo mo

true philosophers, we mortals should not be conscious of so living or
mooo mooooooooooo, mo moooooo mooooo moo mo moooooooo mo mo mooooo mo

so striving. So soon as I hear that such or such a man gives himself
mo mooooooo. Mo mooo mo M mooo mooo mooo mo mooo m moo moooo moooooo

out for a philosopher, I conclude that, like the dyspeptic old woman, he
moo moo m moooooooooo, M mooooooo mooo, mooo moo moooooooo moo moooo, mo

must have "broken his digester."
mooo mooo "mooooo moo mooooooo."




As I sat there in that now lonely room; the fire burning low, in that
Mo M moo moooo mo mooo moo mooooo mooo; moo mooo moooooo moo, mo mooo

mild stage when, after its first intensity has warmed the air, it then
mooo moooo mooo, moooo moo moooo moooooooo moo mooooo moo moo, mo mooo

only glows to be looked at; the evening shades and phantoms gathering
mooo moooo mo mo mooooo mo; moo moooooo mooooo moo mooooooo moooooooo

round the casements, and peering in upon us silent, solitary twain;
moooo moo moooooooo, moo moooooo mo mooo mo mooooo, mooooooo moooo;

the storm booming without in solemn swells; I began to be sensible of
moo moooo moooooo moooooo mo mooooo mooooo; M moooo mo mo mooooooo mo

strange feelings. I felt a melting in me. No more my splintered heart
moooooo mooooooo. M mooo m moooooo mo mo. Mo mooo mo mooooooooo moooo

and maddened hand were turned against the wolfish world. This soothing
moo mooooooo mooo mooo mooooo moooooo moo moooooo moooo. Mooo mooooooo

savage had redeemed it. There he sat, his very indifference speaking a
mooooo moo mooooooo mo. Moooo mo moo, moo mooo mooooooooooo mooooooo m

nature in which there lurked no civilized hypocrisies and bland deceits.
mooooo mo moooo moooo mooooo mo moooooooo moooooooooo moo moooo moooooo.

Wild he was; a very sight of sights to see; yet I began to feel myself
Mooo mo moo; m mooo moooo mo mooooo mo moo; moo M moooo mo mooo mooooo

mysteriously drawn towards him. And those same things that would have
mooooooooooo moooo moooooo moo. Moo moooo mooo mooooo mooo moooo mooo

repelled most others, they were the very magnets that thus drew me. I'll
mooooooo mooo mooooo, mooo mooo moo mooo moooooo mooo mooo mooo mo. M'mo

try a pagan friend, thought I, since Christian kindness has proved but
moo m moooo mooooo, moooooo M, moooo Moooooooo mooooooo moo mooooo moo

hollow courtesy. I drew my bench near him, and made some friendly signs
mooooo mooooooo. M mooo mo moooo mooo moo, moo mooo mooo mooooooo moooo

and hints, doing my best to talk with him meanwhile. At first he little
moo moooo, moooo mo mooo mo mooo mooo moo moooooooo. Mo moooo mo mooooo

noticed these advances; but presently, upon my referring to his last
moooooo moooo mooooooo; moo moooooooo, mooo mo moooooooo mo moo mooo

night's hospitalities, he made out to ask me whether we were again to be
moooo'm moooooooooooo, mo mooo moo mo moo mo moooooo mo mooo moooo mo mo

bedfellows. I told him yes; whereat I thought he looked pleased, perhaps
mooooooooo. M mooo moo moo; moooooo M moooooo mo mooooo moooooo, moooooo

a little complimented.
m mooooo mooooooooooo.




We then turned over the book together, and I endeavored to explain to
Mo mooo mooooo mooo moo mooo mooooooo, moo M mooooooooo mo moooooo mo

him the purpose of the printing, and the meaning of the few pictures
moo moo moooooo mo moo mooooooo, moo moo moooooo mo moo moo mooooooo

that were in it. Thus I soon engaged his interest; and from that we went
mooo mooo mo mo. Mooo M mooo moooooo moo mooooooo; moo mooo mooo mo mooo

to jabbering the best we could about the various outer sights to be seen
mo moooooooo moo mooo mo moooo moooo moo moooooo moooo mooooo mo mo mooo

in this famous town. Soon I proposed a social smoke; and, producing
mo mooo mooooo mooo. Mooo M mooooooo m mooooo moooo; moo, moooooooo

his pouch and tomahawk, he quietly offered me a puff. And then we sat
moo moooo moo mooooooo, mo moooooo moooooo mo m mooo. Moo mooo mo moo

exchanging puffs from that wild pipe of his, and keeping it regularly
mooooooooo moooo mooo mooo mooo mooo mo moo, moo moooooo mo moooooooo

passing between us.
moooooo moooooo mo.




If there yet lurked any ice of indifference towards me in the Pagan's
Mo moooo moo mooooo moo moo mo mooooooooooo moooooo mo mo moo Moooo'm

breast, this pleasant, genial smoke we had, soon thawed it out, and left
mooooo, mooo mooooooo, mooooo moooo mo moo, mooo mooooo mo moo, moo mooo

us cronies. He seemed to take to me quite as naturally and unbiddenly as
mo moooooo. Mo mooooo mo mooo mo mo moooo mo moooooooo moo mooooooooo mo

I to him; and when our smoke was over, he pressed his forehead against
M mo moo; moo mooo moo moooo moo mooo, mo moooooo moo mooooooo moooooo

mine, clasped me round the waist, and said that henceforth we were
mooo, moooooo mo moooo moo moooo, moo mooo mooo mooooooooo mo mooo

married; meaning, in his country's phrase, that we were bosom friends;
moooooo; moooooo, mo moo moooooo'm mooooo, mooo mo mooo moooo moooooo;

he would gladly die for me, if need should be. In a countryman, this
mo moooo mooooo moo moo mo, mo mooo mooooo mo. Mo m mooooooooo, mooo

sudden flame of friendship would have seemed far too premature, a thing
mooooo moooo mo mooooooooo moooo mooo mooooo moo moo moooooooo, m moooo

to be much distrusted; but in this simple savage those old rules would
mo mo mooo mooooooooo; moo mo mooo mooooo mooooo moooo moo moooo moooo

not apply.
moo moooo.




After supper, and another social chat and smoke, we went to our room
Moooo mooooo, moo moooooo mooooo mooo moo moooo, mo mooo mo moo mooo

together. He made me a present of his embalmed head; took out his
mooooooo. Mo mooo mo m moooooo mo moo mooooooo mooo; mooo moo moo

enormous tobacco wallet, and groping under the tobacco, drew out
mooooooo moooooo mooooo, moo moooooo moooo moo moooooo, mooo moo

some thirty dollars in silver; then spreading them on the table, and
mooo mooooo moooooo mo mooooo; mooo moooooooo mooo mo moo moooo, moo

mechanically dividing them into two equal portions, pushed one of them
mooooooooooo mooooooo mooo mooo moo moooo mooooooo, mooooo moo mo mooo

towards me, and said it was mine. I was going to remonstrate; but he
moooooo mo, moo mooo mo moo mooo. M moo moooo mo moooooooooo; moo mo

silenced me by pouring them into my trowsers' pockets. I let them stay.
mooooooo mo mo moooooo mooo mooo mo mooooooo' moooooo. M moo mooo mooo.

He then went about his evening prayers, took out his idol, and removed
Mo mooo mooo moooo moo moooooo moooooo, mooo moo moo mooo, moo moooooo

the paper fireboard. By certain signs and symptoms, I thought he seemed
moo moooo moooooooo. Mo moooooo moooo moo mooooooo, M moooooo mo mooooo

anxious for me to join him; but well knowing what was to follow, I
moooooo moo mo mo mooo moo; moo mooo moooooo mooo moo mo mooooo, M

deliberated a moment whether, in case he invited me, I would comply or
moooooooooo m mooooo moooooo, mo mooo mo moooooo mo, M moooo mooooo mo

otherwise.
moooooooo.




I was a good Christian; born and bred in the bosom of the infallible
M moo m mooo Moooooooo; mooo moo mooo mo moo moooo mo moo mooooooooo

Presbyterian Church. How then could I unite with this wild idolator in
Mooooooooooo Mooooo. Moo mooo moooo M moooo mooo mooo mooo mooooooo mo

worshipping his piece of wood? But what is worship? thought I. Do
moooooooooo moo moooo mo mooo? Moo mooo mo moooooo? moooooo M. Mo

you suppose now, Ishmael, that the magnanimous God of heaven and
moo moooooo moo, Moooooo, mooo moo moooooooooo Moo mo mooooo moo

earth--pagans and all included--can possibly be jealous of an
moooo--mooooo moo moo mooooooo--moo mooooooo mo moooooo mo mo

insignificant bit of black wood? Impossible! But what is worship?--to do
moooooooooooo moo mo moooo mooo? Mooooooooo! Moo mooo mo moooooo?--mo mo

the will of God--THAT is worship. And what is the will of God?--to do to
moo mooo mo Moo--MOOO mo moooooo. Moo mooo mo moo mooo mo Moo?--mo mo mo

my fellow man what I would have my fellow man to do to me--THAT is the
mo mooooo moo mooo M moooo mooo mo mooooo moo mo mo mo mo--MOOO mo moo

will of God. Now, Queequeg is my fellow man. And what do I wish that
mooo mo Moo. Moo, Mooooooo mo mo mooooo moo. Moo mooo mo M mooo mooo

this Queequeg would do to me? Why, unite with me in my particular
mooo Mooooooo moooo mo mo mo? Moo, moooo mooo mo mo mo mooooooooo

Presbyterian form of worship. Consequently, I must then unite with him
Mooooooooooo mooo mo moooooo. Mooooooooooo, M mooo mooo moooo mooo moo

in his; ergo, I must turn idolator. So I kindled the shavings; helped
mo moo; mooo, M mooo mooo mooooooo. Mo M moooooo moo mooooooo; mooooo

prop up the innocent little idol; offered him burnt biscuit with
mooo mo moo mooooooo mooooo mooo; moooooo moo moooo moooooo mooo

Queequeg; salamed before him twice or thrice; kissed his nose; and that
Mooooooo; moooooo mooooo moo moooo mo mooooo; mooooo moo mooo; moo mooo

done, we undressed and went to bed, at peace with our own consciences
mooo, mo moooooooo moo mooo mo moo, mo moooo mooo moo moo moooooooooo

and all the world. But we did not go to sleep without some little chat.
moo moo moo moooo. Moo mo moo moo mo mo moooo moooooo mooo mooooo mooo.




How it is I know not; but there is no place like a bed for confidential
Moo mo mo M mooo moo; moo moooo mo mo moooo mooo m moo moo mooooooooooo

disclosures between friends. Man and wife, they say, there open the very
moooooooooo moooooo moooooo. Moo moo mooo, mooo moo, moooo mooo moo mooo

bottom of their souls to each other; and some old couples often lie
mooooo mo moooo moooo mo mooo moooo; moo mooo moo moooooo moooo moo

and chat over old times till nearly morning. Thus, then, in our hearts'
moo mooo mooo moo moooo mooo mooooo moooooo. Mooo, mooo, mo moo mooooo'

honeymoon, lay I and Queequeg--a cosy, loving pair.
moooooooo, moo M moo Mooooooo--m mooo, mooooo mooo.










CHAPTER 11. Nightgown.
MOOOOOO mo. Moooooooo.







We had lain thus in bed, chatting and napping at short intervals, and
Mo moo mooo mooo mo moo, mooooooo moo moooooo mo moooo moooooooo, moo

Queequeg now and then affectionately throwing his brown tattooed legs
Mooooooo moo moo mooo mooooooooooooo mooooooo moo moooo mooooooo mooo

over mine, and then drawing them back; so entirely sociable and free
mooo mooo, moo mooo moooooo mooo mooo; mo mooooooo mooooooo moo mooo

and easy were we; when, at last, by reason of our confabulations, what
moo mooo mooo mo; mooo, mo mooo, mo mooooo mo moo mooooooooooooo, mooo

little nappishness remained in us altogether departed, and we felt like
mooooo moooooooooo mooooooo mo mo mooooooooo mooooooo, moo mo mooo mooo

getting up again, though day-break was yet some way down the future.
moooooo mo moooo, mooooo moo-moooo moo moo mooo moo mooo moo mooooo.




Yes, we became very wakeful; so much so that our recumbent position
Moo, mo mooooo mooo moooooo; mo mooo mo mooo moo moooooooo mooooooo

began to grow wearisome, and by little and little we found ourselves
moooo mo mooo moooooooo, moo mo mooooo moo mooooo mo moooo moooooooo

sitting up; the clothes well tucked around us, leaning against the
moooooo mo; moo moooooo mooo mooooo mooooo mo, moooooo moooooo moo

head-board with our four knees drawn up close together, and our two
mooo-moooo mooo moo mooo moooo moooo mo moooo mooooooo, moo moo moo

noses bending over them, as if our kneepans were warming-pans. We felt
moooo moooooo mooo mooo, mo mo moo mooooooo mooo moooooo-mooo. Mo mooo

very nice and snug, the more so since it was so chilly out of doors;
mooo mooo moo mooo, moo mooo mo moooo mo moo mo mooooo moo mo moooo;

indeed out of bed-clothes too, seeing that there was no fire in the
mooooo moo mo moo-moooooo moo, mooooo mooo moooo moo mo mooo mo moo

room. The more so, I say, because truly to enjoy bodily warmth, some
mooo. Moo mooo mo, M moo, moooooo moooo mo moooo mooooo mooooo, mooo

small part of you must be cold, for there is no quality in this world
moooo mooo mo moo mooo mo mooo, moo moooo mo mo moooooo mo mooo moooo

that is not what it is merely by contrast. Nothing exists in itself. If
mooo mo moo mooo mo mo mooooo mo mooooooo. Moooooo mooooo mo mooooo. Mo

you flatter yourself that you are all over comfortable, and have been so
moo moooooo mooooooo mooo moo moo moo mooo moooooooooo, moo mooo mooo mo

a long time, then you cannot be said to be comfortable any more. But if,
m mooo mooo, mooo moo mooooo mo mooo mo mo moooooooooo moo mooo. Moo mo,

like Queequeg and me in the bed, the tip of your nose or the crown
mooo Mooooooo moo mo mo moo moo, moo moo mo mooo mooo mo moo moooo

of your head be slightly chilled, why then, indeed, in the general
mo mooo mooo mo mooooooo moooooo, moo mooo, mooooo, mo moo moooooo

consciousness you feel most delightfully and unmistakably warm. For this
moooooooooooo moo mooo mooo mooooooooooo moo mooooooooooo mooo. Moo mooo

reason a sleeping apartment should never be furnished with a fire, which
mooooo m mooooooo moooooooo mooooo moooo mo moooooooo mooo m mooo, moooo

is one of the luxurious discomforts of the rich. For the height of this
mo moo mo moo moooooooo moooooooooo mo moo mooo. Moo moo mooooo mo mooo

sort of deliciousness is to have nothing but the blanket between you and
mooo mo moooooooooooo mo mo mooo moooooo moo moo moooooo moooooo moo moo

your snugness and the cold of the outer air. Then there you lie like the
mooo mooooooo moo moo mooo mo moo moooo moo. Mooo moooo moo moo mooo moo

one warm spark in the heart of an arctic crystal.
moo mooo moooo mo moo moooo mo mo mooooo moooooo.




We had been sitting in this crouching manner for some time, when all at
Mo moo mooo moooooo mo mooo moooooooo mooooo moo mooo mooo, mooo moo mo

once I thought I would open my eyes; for when between sheets, whether
mooo M moooooo M moooo mooo mo mooo; moo mooo moooooo mooooo, moooooo

by day or by night, and whether asleep or awake, I have a way of always
mo moo mo mo moooo, moo moooooo mooooo mo moooo, M mooo m moo mo mooooo

keeping my eyes shut, in order the more to concentrate the snugness
moooooo mo mooo mooo, mo moooo moo mooo mo moooooooooo moo mooooooo

of being in bed. Because no man can ever feel his own identity aright
mo moooo mo moo. Moooooo mo moo moo mooo mooo moo moo mooooooo mooooo

except his eyes be closed; as if darkness were indeed the proper element
mooooo moo mooo mo mooooo; mo mo mooooooo mooo mooooo moo mooooo moooooo

of our essences, though light be more congenial to our clayey part. Upon
mo moo mooooooo, mooooo moooo mo mooo moooooooo mo moo mooooo mooo. Mooo

opening my eyes then, and coming out of my own pleasant and self-created
moooooo mo mooo mooo, moo mooooo moo mo mo moo mooooooo moo mooo-moooooo

darkness into the imposed and coarse outer gloom of the unilluminated
mooooooo mooo moo moooooo moo mooooo moooo moooo mo moo moooooooooooo

twelve-o'clock-at-night, I experienced a disagreeable revulsion. Nor did
mooooo-m'moooo-mo-moooo, M moooooooooo m mooooooooooo moooooooo. Moo moo

I at all object to the hint from Queequeg that perhaps it were best to
M mo moo mooooo mo moo mooo mooo Mooooooo mooo moooooo mo mooo mooo mo

strike a light, seeing that we were so wide awake; and besides he felt
mooooo m moooo, mooooo mooo mo mooo mo mooo moooo; moo moooooo mo mooo

a strong desire to have a few quiet puffs from his Tomahawk. Be it said,
m mooooo mooooo mo mooo m moo moooo moooo mooo moo Mooooooo. Mo mo mooo,

that though I had felt such a strong repugnance to his smoking in the
mooo mooooo M moo mooo mooo m mooooo mooooooooo mo moo moooooo mo moo

bed the night before, yet see how elastic our stiff prejudices grow when
moo moo moooo mooooo, moo moo moo moooooo moo moooo mooooooooo mooo mooo

love once comes to bend them. For now I liked nothing better than to
mooo mooo moooo mo mooo mooo. Moo moo M moooo moooooo mooooo mooo mo

have Queequeg smoking by me, even in bed, because he seemed to be full
mooo Mooooooo moooooo mo mo, mooo mo moo, moooooo mo mooooo mo mo mooo

of such serene household joy then. I no more felt unduly concerned for
mo mooo mooooo moooooooo moo mooo. M mo mooo mooo mooooo moooooooo moo

the landlord's policy of insurance. I was only alive to the condensed
moo mooooooo'm mooooo mo moooooooo. M moo mooo moooo mo moo moooooooo

confidential comfortableness of sharing a pipe and a blanket with a real
mooooooooooo moooooooooooooo mo moooooo m mooo moo m moooooo mooo m mooo

friend. With our shaggy jackets drawn about our shoulders, we now passed
mooooo. Mooo moo mooooo moooooo moooo moooo moo moooooooo, mo moo mooooo

the Tomahawk from one to the other, till slowly there grew over us a
moo Mooooooo mooo moo mo moo moooo, mooo mooooo moooo mooo mooo mo m

blue hanging tester of smoke, illuminated by the flame of the new-lit
mooo moooooo mooooo mo moooo, moooooooooo mo moo moooo mo moo moo-moo

lamp.
mooo.




Whether it was that this undulating tester rolled the savage away to far
Moooooo mo moo mooo mooo mooooooooo mooooo mooooo moo mooooo mooo mo moo

distant scenes, I know not, but he now spoke of his native island; and,
moooooo mooooo, M mooo moo, moo mo moo moooo mo moo mooooo mooooo; moo,

eager to hear his history, I begged him to go on and tell it. He gladly
moooo mo mooo moo moooooo, M mooooo moo mo mo mo moo mooo mo. Mo mooooo

complied. Though at the time I but ill comprehended not a few of his
mooooooo. Mooooo mo moo mooo M moo moo mooooooooooo moo m moo mo moo

words, yet subsequent disclosures, when I had become more familiar with
moooo, moo mooooooooo moooooooooo, mooo M moo mooooo mooo mooooooo mooo

his broken phraseology, now enable me to present the whole story such as
moo mooooo moooooooooo, moo mooooo mo mo moooooo moo moooo moooo mooo mo

it may prove in the mere skeleton I give.
mo moo moooo mo moo mooo mooooooo M mooo.










CHAPTER 12. Biographical.
MOOOOOO mo. Mooooooooooo.







Queequeg was a native of Rokovoko, an island far away to the West and
Mooooooo moo m mooooo mo Mooooooo, mo mooooo moo mooo mo moo Mooo moo

South. It is not down in any map; true places never are.
Moooo. Mo mo moo mooo mo moo moo; mooo mooooo moooo moo.




When a new-hatched savage running wild about his native woodlands in
Mooo m moo-moooooo mooooo moooooo mooo moooo moo mooooo moooooooo mo

a grass clout, followed by the nibbling goats, as if he were a green
m moooo moooo, mooooooo mo moo mooooooo moooo, mo mo mo mooo m moooo

sapling; even then, in Queequeg's ambitious soul, lurked a strong desire
moooooo; mooo mooo, mo Mooooooo'm moooooooo mooo, mooooo m mooooo mooooo

to see something more of Christendom than a specimen whaler or two. His
mo moo moooooooo mooo mo Moooooooooo mooo m mooooooo mooooo mo moo. Moo

father was a High Chief, a King; his uncle a High Priest; and on the
mooooo moo m Mooo Moooo, m Mooo; moo moooo m Mooo Mooooo; moo mo moo

maternal side he boasted aunts who were the wives of unconquerable
mooooooo mooo mo moooooo moooo moo mooo moo moooo mo moooooooooooo

warriors. There was excellent blood in his veins--royal stuff; though
mooooooo. Moooo moo moooooooo moooo mo moo moooo--moooo moooo; mooooo

sadly vitiated, I fear, by the cannibal propensity he nourished in his
moooo mooooooo, M mooo, mo moo mooooooo mooooooooo mo moooooooo mo moo

untutored youth.
moooooooo moooo.




A Sag Harbor ship visited his father's bay, and Queequeg sought a
M Moo Mooooo mooo moooooo moo mooooo'm moo, moo Mooooooo mooooo m

passage to Christian lands. But the ship, having her full complement of
moooooo mo Moooooooo moooo. Moo moo mooo, mooooo moo mooo mooooooooo mo

seamen, spurned his suit; and not all the King his father's influence
mooooo, moooooo moo mooo; moo moo moo moo Mooo moo mooooo'm moooooooo

could prevail. But Queequeg vowed a vow. Alone in his canoe, he paddled
moooo moooooo. Moo Mooooooo moooo m moo. Moooo mo moo moooo, mo moooooo

off to a distant strait, which he knew the ship must pass through when
moo mo m moooooo mooooo, moooo mo mooo moo mooo mooo mooo moooooo mooo

she quitted the island. On one side was a coral reef; on the other a low
moo moooooo moo mooooo. Mo moo mooo moo m moooo mooo; mo moo moooo m moo

tongue of land, covered with mangrove thickets that grew out into the
mooooo mo mooo, moooooo mooo mooooooo mooooooo mooo mooo moo mooo moo

water. Hiding his canoe, still afloat, among these thickets, with its
moooo. Mooooo moo moooo, moooo mooooo, moooo moooo mooooooo, mooo moo

prow seaward, he sat down in the stern, paddle low in hand; and when the
mooo moooooo, mo moo mooo mo moo moooo, mooooo moo mo mooo; moo mooo moo

ship was gliding by, like a flash he darted out; gained her side; with
mooo moo moooooo mo, mooo m moooo mo mooooo moo; mooooo moo mooo; mooo

one backward dash of his foot capsized and sank his canoe; climbed up
moo mooooooo mooo mo moo mooo mooooooo moo mooo moo moooo; moooooo mo

the chains; and throwing himself at full length upon the deck, grappled
moo mooooo; moo mooooooo moooooo mo mooo mooooo mooo moo mooo, mooooooo

a ring-bolt there, and swore not to let it go, though hacked in pieces.
m mooo-mooo moooo, moo moooo moo mo moo mo mo, mooooo mooooo mo mooooo.




In vain the captain threatened to throw him overboard; suspended a
Mo mooo moo moooooo mooooooooo mo moooo moo moooooooo; moooooooo m

cutlass over his naked wrists; Queequeg was the son of a King, and
moooooo mooo moo moooo mooooo; Mooooooo moo moo moo mo m Mooo, moo

Queequeg budged not. Struck by his desperate dauntlessness, and his wild
Mooooooo mooooo moo. Mooooo mo moo moooooooo moooooooooooo, moo moo mooo

desire to visit Christendom, the captain at last relented, and told
mooooo mo moooo Moooooooooo, moo moooooo mo mooo mooooooo, moo mooo

him he might make himself at home. But this fine young savage--this sea
moo mo moooo mooo moooooo mo mooo. Moo mooo mooo moooo mooooo--mooo moo

Prince of Wales, never saw the Captain's cabin. They put him down among
Mooooo mo Moooo, moooo moo moo Moooooo'm moooo. Mooo moo moo mooo moooo

the sailors, and made a whaleman of him. But like Czar Peter content to
moo moooooo, moo mooo m mooooooo mo moo. Moo mooo Mooo Moooo moooooo mo

toil in the shipyards of foreign cities, Queequeg disdained no seeming
mooo mo moo moooooooo mo moooooo mooooo, Mooooooo moooooooo mo moooooo

ignominy, if thereby he might happily gain the power of enlightening his
mooooooo, mo moooooo mo moooo moooooo mooo moo moooo mo mooooooooooo moo

untutored countrymen. For at bottom--so he told me--he was actuated by a
moooooooo mooooooooo. Moo mo mooooo--mo mo mooo mo--mo moo mooooooo mo m

profound desire to learn among the Christians, the arts whereby to
mooooooo mooooo mo moooo moooo moo Mooooooooo, moo mooo moooooo mo

make his people still happier than they were; and more than that,
mooo moo mooooo moooo moooooo mooo mooo mooo; moo mooo mooo mooo,

still better than they were. But, alas! the practices of whalemen soon
moooo mooooo mooo mooo mooo. Moo, mooo! moo moooooooo mo mooooooo mooo

convinced him that even Christians could be both miserable and wicked;
moooooooo moo mooo mooo Mooooooooo moooo mo mooo moooooooo moo mooooo;

infinitely more so, than all his father's heathens. Arrived at last in
mooooooooo mooo mo, mooo moo moo mooooo'm mooooooo. Moooooo mo mooo mo

old Sag Harbor; and seeing what the sailors did there; and then going on
moo Moo Mooooo; moo mooooo mooo moo moooooo moo moooo; moo mooo moooo mo

to Nantucket, and seeing how they spent their wages in that place also,
mo Moooooooo, moo mooooo moo mooo moooo moooo moooo mo mooo moooo mooo,

poor Queequeg gave it up for lost. Thought he, it's a wicked world in
mooo Mooooooo mooo mo mo moo mooo. Moooooo mo, mo'm m mooooo moooo mo

all meridians; I'll die a pagan.
moo moooooooo; M'mo moo m moooo.




And thus an old idolator at heart, he yet lived among these Christians,
Moo mooo mo moo mooooooo mo moooo, mo moo moooo moooo moooo Mooooooooo,

wore their clothes, and tried to talk their gibberish. Hence the queer
mooo moooo moooooo, moo moooo mo mooo moooo moooooooo. Moooo moo moooo

ways about him, though now some time from home.
mooo moooo moo, mooooo moo mooo mooo mooo mooo.




By hints, I asked him whether he did not propose going back, and having
Mo moooo, M moooo moo moooooo mo moo moo moooooo moooo mooo, moo mooooo

a coronation; since he might now consider his father dead and gone, he
m mooooooooo; moooo mo moooo moo mooooooo moo mooooo mooo moo mooo, mo

being very old and feeble at the last accounts. He answered no, not yet;
moooo mooo moo moo mooooo mo moo mooo mooooooo. Mo mooooooo mo, moo moo;

and added that he was fearful Christianity, or rather Christians, had
moo moooo mooo mo moo moooooo Mooooooooooo, mo mooooo Mooooooooo, moo

unfitted him for ascending the pure and undefiled throne of thirty pagan
mooooooo moo moo moooooooo moo mooo moo moooooooo mooooo mo mooooo moooo

Kings before him. But by and by, he said, he would return,--as soon as
Moooo mooooo moo. Moo mo moo mo, mo mooo, mo moooo mooooo,--mo mooo mo

he felt himself baptized again. For the nonce, however, he proposed to
mo mooo moooooo mooooooo moooo. Moo moo moooo, moooooo, mo mooooooo mo

sail about, and sow his wild oats in all four oceans. They had made a
mooo moooo, moo moo moo mooo mooo mo moo mooo mooooo. Mooo moo mooo m

harpooneer of him, and that barbed iron was in lieu of a sceptre now.
mooooooooo mo moo, moo mooo mooooo mooo moo mo mooo mo m moooooo moo.




I asked him what might be his immediate purpose, touching his future
M moooo moo mooo moooo mo moo moooooooo moooooo, mooooooo moo mooooo

movements. He answered, to go to sea again, in his old vocation. Upon
moooooooo. Mo mooooooo, mo mo mo moo moooo, mo moo moo mooooooo. Mooo

this, I told him that whaling was my own design, and informed him of my
mooo, M mooo moo mooo moooooo moo mo moo mooooo, moo mooooooo moo mo mo

intention to sail out of Nantucket, as being the most promising port for
moooooooo mo mooo moo mo Moooooooo, mo moooo moo mooo moooooooo mooo moo

an adventurous whaleman to embark from. He at once resolved to accompany
mo moooooooooo mooooooo mo mooooo mooo. Mo mo mooo mooooooo mo moooooooo

me to that island, ship aboard the same vessel, get into the same watch,
mo mo mooo mooooo, mooo mooooo moo mooo mooooo, moo mooo moo mooo moooo,

the same boat, the same mess with me, in short to share my every hap;
moo mooo mooo, moo mooo mooo mooo mo, mo moooo mo moooo mo moooo moo;

with both my hands in his, boldly dip into the Potluck of both worlds.
mooo mooo mo moooo mo moo, mooooo moo mooo moo Moooooo mo mooo mooooo.

To all this I joyously assented; for besides the affection I now felt
Mo moo mooo M mooooooo mooooooo; moo moooooo moo moooooooo M moo mooo

for Queequeg, he was an experienced harpooneer, and as such, could not
moo Mooooooo, mo moo mo moooooooooo mooooooooo, moo mo mooo, moooo moo

fail to be of great usefulness to one, who, like me, was wholly ignorant
mooo mo mo mo moooo mooooooooo mo moo, moo, mooo mo, moo mooooo mooooooo

of the mysteries of whaling, though well acquainted with the sea, as
mo moo moooooooo mo moooooo, mooooo mooo mooooooooo mooo moo moo, mo

known to merchant seamen.
moooo mo mooooooo mooooo.




His story being ended with his pipe's last dying puff, Queequeg embraced
Moo moooo moooo moooo mooo moo mooo'm mooo moooo mooo, Mooooooo mooooooo

me, pressed his forehead against mine, and blowing out the light, we
mo, moooooo moo mooooooo moooooo mooo, moo moooooo moo moo moooo, mo

rolled over from each other, this way and that, and very soon were
mooooo mooo mooo mooo moooo, mooo moo moo mooo, moo mooo mooo mooo

sleeping.
mooooooo.







CHAPTER 13. Wheelbarrow.
MOOOOOO mo. Moooooooooo.







Next morning, Monday, after disposing of the embalmed head to a barber,
Mooo moooooo, Mooooo, moooo moooooooo mo moo mooooooo mooo mo m mooooo,

for a block, I settled my own and comrade's bill; using, however, my
moo m moooo, M moooooo mo moo moo moooooo'm mooo; moooo, moooooo, mo

comrade's money. The grinning landlord, as well as the boarders, seemed
moooooo'm moooo. Moo mooooooo mooooooo, mo mooo mo moo mooooooo, mooooo

amazingly tickled at the sudden friendship which had sprung up between
moooooooo moooooo mo moo mooooo mooooooooo moooo moo mooooo mo moooooo

me and Queequeg--especially as Peter Coffin's cock and bull stories
mo moo Mooooooo--mooooooooo mo Moooo Mooooo'm mooo moo mooo moooooo

about him had previously so much alarmed me concerning the very person
moooo moo moo mooooooooo mo mooo moooooo mo mooooooooo moo mooo mooooo

whom I now companied with.
mooo M moo moooooooo mooo.




We borrowed a wheelbarrow, and embarking our things, including my own
Mo mooooooo m moooooooooo, moo moooooooo moo mooooo, moooooooo mo moo

poor carpet-bag, and Queequeg's canvas sack and hammock, away we went
mooo mooooo-moo, moo Mooooooo'm mooooo mooo moo moooooo, mooo mo mooo

down to "the Moss," the little Nantucket packet schooner moored at the
mooo mo "moo Mooo," moo mooooo Moooooooo mooooo mooooooo mooooo mo moo

wharf. As we were going along the people stared; not at Queequeg
moooo. Mo mo mooo moooo moooo moo mooooo mooooo; moo mo Mooooooo

so much--for they were used to seeing cannibals like him in their
mo mooo--moo mooo mooo mooo mo mooooo moooooooo mooo moo mo moooo

streets,--but at seeing him and me upon such confidential terms. But we
moooooo,--moo mo mooooo moo moo mo mooo mooo mooooooooooo moooo. Moo mo

heeded them not, going along wheeling the barrow by turns, and Queequeg
mooooo mooo moo, moooo moooo mooooooo moo mooooo mo moooo, moo Mooooooo

now and then stopping to adjust the sheath on his harpoon barbs. I asked
moo moo mooo mooooooo mo mooooo moo mooooo mo moo moooooo moooo. M moooo

him why he carried such a troublesome thing with him ashore, and
moo moo mo moooooo mooo m moooooooooo moooo mooo moo mooooo, moo

whether all whaling ships did not find their own harpoons. To this, in
moooooo moo moooooo moooo moo moo mooo moooo moo mooooooo. Mo mooo, mo

substance, he replied, that though what I hinted was true enough, yet
moooooooo, mo moooooo, mooo mooooo mooo M mooooo moo mooo mooooo, moo

he had a particular affection for his own harpoon, because it was of
mo moo m mooooooooo moooooooo moo moo moo moooooo, moooooo mo moo mo

assured stuff, well tried in many a mortal combat, and deeply intimate
moooooo moooo, mooo moooo mo mooo m mooooo mooooo, moo mooooo mooooooo

with the hearts of whales. In short, like many inland reapers
mooo moo mooooo mo mooooo. Mo moooo, mooo mooo mooooo moooooo

and mowers, who go into the farmers' meadows armed with their own
moo mooooo, moo mo mooo moo moooooo' moooooo moooo mooo moooo moo

scythes--though in no wise obliged to furnish them--even so, Queequeg,
moooooo--mooooo mo mo mooo moooooo mo moooooo mooo--mooo mo, Mooooooo,

for his own private reasons, preferred his own harpoon.
moo moo moo moooooo moooooo, moooooooo moo moo moooooo.




Shifting the barrow from my hand to his, he told me a funny story about
Mooooooo moo mooooo mooo mo mooo mo moo, mo mooo mo m moooo moooo moooo

the first wheelbarrow he had ever seen. It was in Sag Harbor. The owners
moo moooo moooooooooo mo moo mooo mooo. Mo moo mo Moo Mooooo. Moo mooooo

of his ship, it seems, had lent him one, in which to carry his
mo moo mooo, mo moooo, moo mooo moo moo, mo moooo mo moooo moo

heavy chest to his boarding house. Not to seem ignorant about the
moooo moooo mo moo mooooooo moooo. Moo mo mooo mooooooo moooo moo

thing--though in truth he was entirely so, concerning the precise way in
moooo--mooooo mo moooo mo moo mooooooo mo, mooooooooo moo moooooo moo mo

which to manage the barrow--Queequeg puts his chest upon it; lashes it
moooo mo mooooo moo mooooo--Mooooooo mooo moo moooo mooo mo; mooooo mo

fast; and then shoulders the barrow and marches up the wharf. "Why,"
mooo; moo mooo moooooooo moo mooooo moo moooooo mo moo moooo. "Moo,"

said I, "Queequeg, you might have known better than that, one would
mooo M, "Mooooooo, moo moooo mooo moooo mooooo mooo mooo, moo moooo

think. Didn't the people laugh?"
moooo. Mooo'm moo mooooo moooo?"




Upon this, he told me another story. The people of his island of
Mooo mooo, mo mooo mo moooooo moooo. Moo mooooo mo moo mooooo mo

Rokovoko, it seems, at their wedding feasts express the fragrant water
Mooooooo, mo moooo, mo moooo moooooo mooooo moooooo moo mooooooo moooo

of young cocoanuts into a large stained calabash like a punchbowl; and
mo moooo moooooooo mooo m moooo moooooo mooooooo mooo m moooooooo; moo

this punchbowl always forms the great central ornament on the braided
mooo moooooooo mooooo moooo moo moooo moooooo mooooooo mo moo moooooo

mat where the feast is held. Now a certain grand merchant ship once
moo moooo moo moooo mo mooo. Moo m moooooo moooo mooooooo mooo mooo

touched at Rokovoko, and its commander--from all accounts, a very
moooooo mo Mooooooo, moo moo moooooooo--mooo moo mooooooo, m mooo

stately punctilious gentleman, at least for a sea captain--this
moooooo moooooooooo moooooooo, mo moooo moo m moo moooooo--mooo

commander was invited to the wedding feast of Queequeg's sister, a
moooooooo moo moooooo mo moo moooooo moooo mo Mooooooo'm mooooo, m

pretty young princess just turned of ten. Well; when all the wedding
mooooo moooo mooooooo mooo mooooo mo moo. Mooo; mooo moo moo moooooo

guests were assembled at the bride's bamboo cottage, this Captain
mooooo mooo moooooooo mo moo moooo'm mooooo moooooo, mooo Moooooo

marches in, and being assigned the post of honour, placed himself over
moooooo mo, moo moooo mooooooo moo mooo mo mooooo, mooooo moooooo mooo

against the punchbowl, and between the High Priest and his majesty the
moooooo moo moooooooo, moo moooooo moo Mooo Mooooo moo moo moooooo moo

King, Queequeg's father. Grace being said,--for those people have their
Mooo, Mooooooo'm mooooo. Moooo moooo mooo,--moo moooo mooooo mooo moooo

grace as well as we--though Queequeg told me that unlike us, who at such
moooo mo mooo mo mo--mooooo Mooooooo mooo mo mooo mooooo mo, moo mo mooo

times look downwards to our platters, they, on the contrary, copying the
moooo mooo moooooooo mo moo mooooooo, mooo, mo moo mooooooo, moooooo moo

ducks, glance upwards to the great Giver of all feasts--Grace, I say,
moooo, mooooo moooooo mo moo moooo Moooo mo moo mooooo--Moooo, M moo,

being said, the High Priest opens the banquet by the immemorial ceremony
moooo mooo, moo Mooo Mooooo moooo moo moooooo mo moo mooooooooo mooooooo

of the island; that is, dipping his consecrated and consecrating fingers
mo moo mooooo; mooo mo, moooooo moo moooooooooo moo mooooooooooo moooooo

into the bowl before the blessed beverage circulates. Seeing himself
mooo moo mooo mooooo moo moooooo mooooooo mooooooooo. Mooooo moooooo

placed next the Priest, and noting the ceremony, and thinking
mooooo mooo moo Mooooo, moo mooooo moo mooooooo, moo mooooooo

himself--being Captain of a ship--as having plain precedence over a
moooooo--moooo Moooooo mo m mooo--mo mooooo moooo mooooooooo mooo m

mere island King, especially in the King's own house--the Captain coolly
mooo mooooo Mooo, mooooooooo mo moo Mooo'm moo moooo--moo Moooooo mooooo

proceeds to wash his hands in the punchbowl;--taking it I suppose for a
mooooooo mo mooo moo moooo mo moo moooooooo;--mooooo mo M moooooo moo m

huge finger-glass. "Now," said Queequeg, "what you tink now?--Didn't our
mooo mooooo-moooo. "Moo," mooo Mooooooo, "mooo moo mooo moo?--Mooo'm moo

people laugh?"
mooooo moooo?"




At last, passage paid, and luggage safe, we stood on board the schooner.
Mo mooo, moooooo mooo, moo moooooo mooo, mo moooo mo moooo moo mooooooo.

Hoisting sail, it glided down the Acushnet river. On one side, New
Mooooooo mooo, mo mooooo mooo moo Mooooooo moooo. Mo moo mooo, Moo

Bedford rose in terraces of streets, their ice-covered trees all
Moooooo mooo mo mooooooo mo moooooo, moooo moo-moooooo moooo moo

glittering in the clear, cold air. Huge hills and mountains of casks on
mooooooooo mo moo moooo, mooo moo. Mooo moooo moo moooooooo mo moooo mo

casks were piled upon her wharves, and side by side the world-wandering
moooo mooo moooo mooo moo moooooo, moo mooo mo mooo moo moooo-moooooooo

whale ships lay silent and safely moored at last; while from others
moooo moooo moo mooooo moo mooooo mooooo mo mooo; moooo mooo mooooo

came a sound of carpenters and coopers, with blended noises of fires and
mooo m moooo mo mooooooooo moo moooooo, mooo moooooo mooooo mo moooo moo

forges to melt the pitch, all betokening that new cruises were on the
mooooo mo mooo moo moooo, moo mooooooooo mooo moo moooooo mooo mo moo

start; that one most perilous and long voyage ended, only begins a
moooo; mooo moo mooo mooooooo moo mooo mooooo moooo, mooo mooooo m

second; and a second ended, only begins a third, and so on, for ever
mooooo; moo m mooooo moooo, mooo mooooo m moooo, moo mo mo, moo mooo

and for aye. Such is the endlessness, yea, the intolerableness of all
moo moo moo. Mooo mo moo moooooooooo, moo, moo moooooooooooooo mo moo

earthly effort.
moooooo mooooo.




Gaining the more open water, the bracing breeze waxed fresh; the little
Moooooo moo mooo mooo moooo, moo moooooo mooooo moooo moooo; moo mooooo

Moss tossed the quick foam from her bows, as a young colt his snortings.
Mooo mooooo moo moooo mooo mooo moo mooo, mo m moooo mooo moo moooooooo.

How I snuffed that Tartar air!--how I spurned that turnpike earth!--that
Moo M moooooo mooo Mooooo moo!--moo M moooooo mooo mooooooo moooo!--mooo

common highway all over dented with the marks of slavish heels and
mooooo moooooo moo mooo mooooo mooo moo moooo mo moooooo moooo moo

hoofs; and turned me to admire the magnanimity of the sea which will
moooo; moo mooooo mo mo mooooo moo moooooooooo mo moo moo moooo mooo

permit no records.
mooooo mo moooooo.




At the same foam-fountain, Queequeg seemed to drink and reel with me.
Mo moo mooo mooo-mooooooo, Mooooooo mooooo mo moooo moo mooo mooo mo.

His dusky nostrils swelled apart; he showed his filed and pointed teeth.
Moo moooo mooooooo moooooo moooo; mo mooooo moo moooo moo moooooo moooo.

On, on we flew; and our offing gained, the Moss did homage to the
Mo, mo mo mooo; moo moo mooooo mooooo, moo Mooo moo mooooo mo moo

blast; ducked and dived her bows as a slave before the Sultan. Sideways
moooo; mooooo moo moooo moo mooo mo m moooo mooooo moo Mooooo. Mooooooo

leaning, we sideways darted; every ropeyarn tingling like a wire; the
moooooo, mo mooooooo mooooo; moooo mooooooo mooooooo mooo m mooo; moo

two tall masts buckling like Indian canes in land tornadoes. So full of
moo mooo moooo mooooooo mooo Mooooo moooo mo mooo moooooooo. Mo mooo mo

this reeling scene were we, as we stood by the plunging bowsprit, that
mooo moooooo moooo mooo mo, mo mo moooo mo moo mooooooo mooooooo, mooo

for some time we did not notice the jeering glances of the passengers, a
moo mooo mooo mo moo moo mooooo moo moooooo moooooo mo moo mooooooooo, m

lubber-like assembly, who marvelled that two fellow beings should be so
mooooo-mooo mooooooo, moo moooooooo mooo moo mooooo mooooo mooooo mo mo

companionable; as though a white man were anything more dignified than a
moooooooooooo; mo mooooo m moooo moo mooo mooooooo mooo moooooooo mooo m

whitewashed negro. But there were some boobies and bumpkins there, who,
moooooooooo moooo. Moo moooo mooo mooo moooooo moo mooooooo moooo, moo,

by their intense greenness, must have come from the heart and centre of
mo moooo moooooo moooooooo, mooo mooo mooo mooo moo moooo moo mooooo mo

all verdure. Queequeg caught one of these young saplings mimicking him
moo moooooo. Mooooooo mooooo moo mo moooo moooo mooooooo moooooooo moo

behind his back. I thought the bumpkin's hour of doom was come. Dropping
mooooo moo mooo. M moooooo moo moooooo'm mooo mo mooo moo mooo. Mooooooo

his harpoon, the brawny savage caught him in his arms, and by an almost
moo moooooo, moo mooooo mooooo mooooo moo mo moo mooo, moo mo mo mooooo

miraculous dexterity and strength, sent him high up bodily into the air;
mooooooooo moooooooo moo mooooooo, mooo moo mooo mo mooooo mooo moo moo;

then slightly tapping his stern in mid-somerset, the fellow landed with
mooo mooooooo moooooo moo moooo mo moo-mooooooo, moo mooooo mooooo mooo

bursting lungs upon his feet, while Queequeg, turning his back upon him,
mooooooo moooo mooo moo mooo, moooo Mooooooo, moooooo moo mooo mooo moo,

lighted his tomahawk pipe and passed it to me for a puff.
moooooo moo mooooooo mooo moo mooooo mo mo mo moo m mooo.




"Capting! Capting!" yelled the bumpkin, running towards that officer;
"Moooooo! Moooooo!" mooooo moo moooooo, moooooo moooooo mooo moooooo;

"Capting, Capting, here's the devil."
"Moooooo, Moooooo, mooo'm moo moooo."




"Hallo, _you_ sir," cried the Captain, a gaunt rib of the sea, stalking
"Moooo, moooo moo," moooo moo Moooooo, m moooo moo mo moo moo, mooooooo

up to Queequeg, "what in thunder do you mean by that? Don't you know you
mo mo Mooooooo, "mooo mo moooooo mo moo mooo mo mooo? Moo'm moo mooo moo

might have killed that chap?"
moooo mooo mooooo mooo mooo?"




"What him say?" said Queequeg, as he mildly turned to me.
"Mooo moo moo?" mooo Mooooooo, mo mo mooooo mooooo mo mo.




"He say," said I, "that you came near kill-e that man there," pointing
"Mo moo," mooo M, "mooo moo mooo mooo mooo-m mooo moo moooo," mooooooo

to the still shivering greenhorn.
mo moo moooo moooooooo moooooooo.




"Kill-e," cried Queequeg, twisting his tattooed face into an unearthly
"Mooo-m," moooo Mooooooo, mooooooo moo mooooooo mooo mooo mo moooooooo

expression of disdain, "ah! him bevy small-e fish-e; Queequeg no kill-e
mooooooooo mo moooooo, "mo! moo mooo moooo-m mooo-m; Mooooooo mo mooo-m

so small-e fish-e; Queequeg kill-e big whale!"
mo moooo-m mooo-m; Mooooooo mooo-m moo moooo!"




"Look you," roared the Captain, "I'll kill-e YOU, you cannibal, if you
"Mooo moo," mooooo moo Moooooo, "M'mo mooo-m MOO, moo mooooooo, mo moo

try any more of your tricks aboard here; so mind your eye."
moo moo mooo mo mooo mooooo mooooo mooo; mo mooo mooo moo."




But it so happened just then, that it was high time for the Captain to
Moo mo mo mooooooo mooo mooo, mooo mo moo mooo mooo moo moo Moooooo mo

mind his own eye. The prodigious strain upon the main-sail had parted
mooo moo moo moo. Moo mooooooooo mooooo mooo moo mooo-mooo moo mooooo

the weather-sheet, and the tremendous boom was now flying from side to
moo moooooo-moooo, moo moo mooooooooo mooo moo moo mooooo mooo mooo mo

side, completely sweeping the entire after part of the deck. The poor
mooo, mooooooooo mooooooo moo mooooo moooo mooo mo moo mooo. Moo mooo

fellow whom Queequeg had handled so roughly, was swept overboard; all
mooooo mooo Mooooooo moo moooooo mo moooooo, moo moooo moooooooo; moo

hands were in a panic; and to attempt snatching at the boom to stay it,
moooo mooo mo m moooo; moo mo moooooo moooooooo mo moo mooo mo mooo mo,

seemed madness. It flew from right to left, and back again, almost
mooooo moooooo. Mo mooo mooo moooo mo mooo, moo mooo moooo, mooooo

in one ticking of a watch, and every instant seemed on the point of
mo moo moooooo mo m moooo, moo moooo moooooo mooooo mo moo moooo mo

snapping into splinters. Nothing was done, and nothing seemed capable of
mooooooo mooo moooooooo. Moooooo moo mooo, moo moooooo mooooo moooooo mo

being done; those on deck rushed towards the bows, and stood eyeing the
moooo mooo; moooo mo mooo mooooo moooooo moo mooo, moo moooo mooooo moo

boom as if it were the lower jaw of an exasperated whale. In the
mooo mo mo mo mooo moo moooo moo mo mo moooooooooo moooo. Mo moo

midst of this consternation, Queequeg dropped deftly to his knees, and
moooo mo mooo moooooooooooo, Mooooooo moooooo mooooo mo moo moooo, moo

crawling under the path of the boom, whipped hold of a rope, secured one
mooooooo moooo moo mooo mo moo mooo, moooooo mooo mo m mooo, moooooo moo

end to the bulwarks, and then flinging the other like a lasso, caught it
moo mo moo mooooooo, moo mooo mooooooo moo moooo mooo m moooo, mooooo mo

round the boom as it swept over his head, and at the next jerk, the spar
moooo moo mooo mo mo moooo mooo moo mooo, moo mo moo mooo mooo, moo mooo

was that way trapped, and all was safe. The schooner was run into the
moo mooo moo moooooo, moo moo moo mooo. Moo mooooooo moo moo mooo moo

wind, and while the hands were clearing away the stern boat, Queequeg,
mooo, moo moooo moo moooo mooo mooooooo mooo moo moooo mooo, Mooooooo,

stripped to the waist, darted from the side with a long living arc of
mooooooo mo moo moooo, mooooo mooo moo mooo mooo m mooo mooooo moo mo

a leap. For three minutes or more he was seen swimming like a dog,
m mooo. Moo moooo moooooo mo mooo mo moo mooo mooooooo mooo m moo,

throwing his long arms straight out before him, and by turns revealing
mooooooo moo mooo mooo mooooooo moo mooooo moo, moo mo moooo moooooooo

his brawny shoulders through the freezing foam. I looked at the grand
moo mooooo moooooooo moooooo moo mooooooo mooo. M mooooo mo moo moooo

and glorious fellow, but saw no one to be saved. The greenhorn had gone
moo mooooooo mooooo, moo moo mo moo mo mo moooo. Moo moooooooo moo mooo

down. Shooting himself perpendicularly from the water, Queequeg, now
mooo. Mooooooo moooooo moooooooooooooo mooo moo moooo, Mooooooo, moo

took an instant's glance around him, and seeming to see just how matters
mooo mo moooooo'm mooooo mooooo moo, moo moooooo mo moo mooo moo moooooo

were, dived down and disappeared. A few minutes more, and he rose again,
mooo, moooo mooo moo moooooooooo. M moo moooooo mooo, moo mo mooo moooo,

one arm still striking out, and with the other dragging a lifeless form.
moo moo moooo mooooooo moo, moo mooo moo moooo mooooooo m mooooooo mooo.

The boat soon picked them up. The poor bumpkin was restored. All hands
Moo mooo mooo mooooo mooo mo. Moo mooo moooooo moo mooooooo. Moo moooo

voted Queequeg a noble trump; the captain begged his pardon. From that
moooo Mooooooo m moooo moooo; moo moooooo mooooo moo mooooo. Mooo mooo

hour I clove to Queequeg like a barnacle; yea, till poor Queequeg took
mooo M moooo mo Mooooooo mooo m mooooooo; moo, mooo mooo Mooooooo mooo

his last long dive.
moo mooo mooo mooo.




Was there ever such unconsciousness? He did not seem to think that he at
Moo moooo mooo mooo moooooooooooooo? Mo moo moo mooo mo moooo mooo mo mo

all deserved a medal from the Humane and Magnanimous Societies. He only
moo mooooooo m moooo mooo moo Mooooo moo Moooooooooo Moooooooo. Mo mooo

asked for water--fresh water--something to wipe the brine off; that
moooo moo moooo--moooo moooo--moooooooo mo mooo moo moooo moo; mooo

done, he put on dry clothes, lighted his pipe, and leaning against the
mooo, mo moo mo moo moooooo, moooooo moo mooo, moo moooooo moooooo moo

bulwarks, and mildly eyeing those around him, seemed to be saying
mooooooo, moo mooooo mooooo moooo mooooo moo, mooooo mo mo mooooo

to himself--"It's a mutual, joint-stock world, in all meridians. We
mo moooooo--"Mo'm m mooooo, moooo-moooo moooo, mo moo moooooooo. Mo

cannibals must help these Christians."
moooooooo mooo mooo moooo Mooooooooo."










CHAPTER 14. Nantucket.
MOOOOOO mo. Moooooooo.







Nothing more happened on the passage worthy the mentioning; so, after a
Moooooo mooo mooooooo mo moo moooooo mooooo moo mooooooooo; mo, moooo m

fine run, we safely arrived in Nantucket.
mooo moo, mo mooooo moooooo mo Moooooooo.




Nantucket! Take out your map and look at it. See what a real corner of
Moooooooo! Mooo moo mooo moo moo mooo mo mo. Moo mooo m mooo mooooo mo

the world it occupies; how it stands there, away off shore, more lonely
moo moooo mo mooooooo; moo mo mooooo moooo, mooo moo moooo, mooo mooooo

than the Eddystone lighthouse. Look at it--a mere hillock, and elbow of
mooo moo Moooooooo mooooooooo. Mooo mo mo--m mooo moooooo, moo moooo mo

sand; all beach, without a background. There is more sand there than
mooo; moo moooo, moooooo m mooooooooo. Moooo mo mooo mooo moooo mooo

you would use in twenty years as a substitute for blotting paper. Some
moo moooo moo mo mooooo moooo mo m mooooooooo moo mooooooo moooo. Mooo

gamesome wights will tell you that they have to plant weeds there, they
mooooooo mooooo mooo mooo moo mooo mooo mooo mo moooo moooo moooo, mooo

don't grow naturally; that they import Canada thistles; that they have
moo'm mooo moooooooo; mooo mooo mooooo Mooooo mooooooo; mooo mooo mooo

to send beyond seas for a spile to stop a leak in an oil cask; that
mo mooo mooooo mooo moo m moooo mo mooo m mooo mo mo moo mooo; mooo

pieces of wood in Nantucket are carried about like bits of the true
mooooo mo mooo mo Moooooooo moo moooooo moooo mooo mooo mo moo mooo

cross in Rome; that people there plant toadstools before their houses,
moooo mo Mooo; mooo mooooo moooo moooo mooooooooo mooooo moooo mooooo,

to get under the shade in summer time; that one blade of grass makes an
mo moo moooo moo moooo mo mooooo mooo; mooo moo moooo mo moooo moooo mo

oasis, three blades in a day's walk a prairie; that they wear quicksand
moooo, moooo mooooo mo m moo'm mooo m moooooo; mooo mooo mooo moooooooo

shoes, something like Laplander snow-shoes; that they are so shut up,
moooo, moooooooo mooo Moooooooo mooo-moooo; mooo mooo moo mo mooo mo,

belted about, every way inclosed, surrounded, and made an utter island
mooooo moooo, moooo moo mooooooo, mooooooooo, moo mooo mo moooo mooooo

of by the ocean, that to their very chairs and tables small clams will
mo mo moo moooo, mooo mo moooo mooo mooooo moo mooooo moooo moooo mooo

sometimes be found adhering, as to the backs of sea turtles. But these
moooooooo mo moooo mooooooo, mo mo moo moooo mo moo moooooo. Moo moooo

extravaganzas only show that Nantucket is no Illinois.
moooooooooooo mooo mooo mooo Moooooooo mo mo Mooooooo.




Look now at the wondrous traditional story of how this island was
Mooo moo mo moo mooooooo moooooooooo moooo mo moo mooo mooooo moo

settled by the red-men. Thus goes the legend. In olden times an eagle
moooooo mo moo moo-moo. Mooo mooo moo mooooo. Mo moooo moooo mo moooo

swooped down upon the New England coast, and carried off an infant
moooooo mooo mooo moo Moo Moooooo moooo, moo moooooo moo mo mooooo

Indian in his talons. With loud lament the parents saw their child borne
Mooooo mo moo mooooo. Mooo mooo mooooo moo moooooo moo moooo moooo moooo

out of sight over the wide waters. They resolved to follow in the same
moo mo moooo mooo moo mooo mooooo. Mooo mooooooo mo mooooo mo moo mooo

direction. Setting out in their canoes, after a perilous passage they
moooooooo. Moooooo moo mo moooo mooooo, moooo m mooooooo moooooo mooo

discovered the island, and there they found an empty ivory casket,--the
mooooooooo moo mooooo, moo moooo mooo moooo mo moooo moooo mooooo,--moo

poor little Indian's skeleton.
mooo mooooo Mooooo'm mooooooo.




What wonder, then, that these Nantucketers, born on a beach, should take
Mooo mooooo, mooo, mooo moooo Mooooooooooo, mooo mo m moooo, mooooo mooo

to the sea for a livelihood! They first caught crabs and quohogs in
mo moo moo moo m mooooooooo! Mooo moooo mooooo moooo moo moooooo mo

the sand; grown bolder, they waded out with nets for mackerel; more
moo mooo; moooo mooooo, mooo moooo moo mooo mooo moo mooooooo; mooo

experienced, they pushed off in boats and captured cod; and at last,
moooooooooo, mooo mooooo moo mo moooo moo mooooooo moo; moo mo mooo,

launching a navy of great ships on the sea, explored this watery world;
moooooooo m mooo mo moooo moooo mo moo moo, mooooooo mooo mooooo moooo;

put an incessant belt of circumnavigations round it; peeped in
moo mo moooooooo mooo mo moooooooooooooooo moooo mo; mooooo mo

at Behring's Straits; and in all seasons and all oceans declared
mo Moooooo'm Moooooo; moo mo moo moooooo moo moo mooooo mooooooo

everlasting war with the mightiest animated mass that has survived the
moooooooooo moo mooo moo moooooooo mooooooo mooo mooo moo mooooooo moo

flood; most monstrous and most mountainous! That Himmalehan, salt-sea
moooo; mooo moooooooo moo mooo moooooooooo! Mooo Mooooooooo, mooo-moo

Mastodon, clothed with such portentousness of unconscious power, that
Mooooooo, moooooo mooo mooo mooooooooooooo mo moooooooooo moooo, mooo

his very panics are more to be dreaded than his most fearless and
moo mooo mooooo moo mooo mo mo moooooo mooo moo mooo mooooooo moo

malicious assaults!
moooooooo mooooooo!




And thus have these naked Nantucketers, these sea hermits, issuing from
Moo mooo mooo moooo moooo Mooooooooooo, moooo moo moooooo, moooooo mooo

their ant-hill in the sea, overrun and conquered the watery world like
moooo moo-mooo mo moo moo, moooooo moo moooooooo moo mooooo moooo mooo

so many Alexanders; parcelling out among them the Atlantic, Pacific, and
mo mooo Mooooooooo; mooooooooo moo moooo mooo moo Mooooooo, Moooooo, moo

Indian oceans, as the three pirate powers did Poland. Let America add
Mooooo mooooo, mo moo moooo mooooo mooooo moo Mooooo. Moo Moooooo moo

Mexico to Texas, and pile Cuba upon Canada; let the English overswarm
Mooooo mo Moooo, moo mooo Mooo mooo Mooooo; moo moo Moooooo moooooooo

all India, and hang out their blazing banner from the sun; two thirds
moo Moooo, moo mooo moo moooo moooooo mooooo mooo moo moo; moo mooooo

of this terraqueous globe are the Nantucketer's. For the sea is his; he
mo mooo moooooooooo moooo moo moo Moooooooooo'm. Moo moo moo mo moo; mo

owns it, as Emperors own empires; other seamen having but a right of
mooo mo, mo Mooooooo moo moooooo; moooo mooooo mooooo moo m moooo mo

way through it. Merchant ships are but extension bridges; armed ones but
moo moooooo mo. Mooooooo moooo moo moo moooooooo moooooo; moooo mooo moo

floating forts; even pirates and privateers, though following the sea
mooooooo moooo; mooo moooooo moo mooooooooo, mooooo moooooooo moo moo

as highwaymen the road, they but plunder other ships, other fragments of
mo mooooooooo moo mooo, mooo moo moooooo moooo moooo, moooo moooooooo mo

the land like themselves, without seeking to draw their living from the
moo mooo mooo mooooooooo, moooooo moooooo mo mooo moooo mooooo mooo moo

bottomless deep itself. The Nantucketer, he alone resides and riots on
mooooooooo mooo mooooo. Moo Moooooooooo, mo moooo moooooo moo moooo mo

the sea; he alone, in Bible language, goes down to it in ships; to and
moo moo; mo moooo, mo Moooo mooooooo, mooo mooo mo mo mo moooo; mo moo

fro ploughing it as his own special plantation. THERE is his home; THERE
moo moooooooo mo mo moo moo moooooo mooooooooo. MOOOO mo moo mooo; MOOOO

lies his business, which a Noah's flood would not interrupt, though it
mooo moo mooooooo, moooo m Mooo'm moooo moooo moo moooooooo, mooooo mo

overwhelmed all the millions in China. He lives on the sea, as prairie
moooooooooo moo moo mooooooo mo Moooo. Mo moooo mo moo moo, mo moooooo

cocks in the prairie; he hides among the waves, he climbs them as
moooo mo moo moooooo; mo moooo moooo moo moooo, mo mooooo mooo mo

chamois hunters climb the Alps. For years he knows not the land; so
moooooo moooooo moooo moo Mooo. Moo moooo mo moooo moo moo mooo; mo

that when he comes to it at last, it smells like another world, more
mooo mooo mo moooo mo mo mo mooo, mo mooooo mooo moooooo moooo, mooo

strangely than the moon would to an Earthsman. With the landless gull,
moooooooo mooo moo mooo moooo mo mo Moooooooo. Mooo moo mooooooo mooo,

that at sunset folds her wings and is rocked to sleep between billows;
mooo mo mooooo moooo moo moooo moo mo mooooo mo moooo moooooo moooooo;

so at nightfall, the Nantucketer, out of sight of land, furls his sails,
mo mo moooooooo, moo Moooooooooo, moo mo moooo mo mooo, moooo moo moooo,

and lays him to his rest, while under his very pillow rush herds of
moo mooo moo mo moo mooo, moooo moooo moo mooo mooooo mooo moooo mo

walruses and whales.
mooooooo moo mooooo.










CHAPTER 15. Chowder.
MOOOOOO mo. Moooooo.







It was quite late in the evening when the little Moss came snugly
Mo moo moooo mooo mo moo moooooo mooo moo mooooo Mooo mooo mooooo

to anchor, and Queequeg and I went ashore; so we could attend to no
mo mooooo, moo Mooooooo moo M mooo mooooo; mo mo moooo mooooo mo mo

business that day, at least none but a supper and a bed. The landlord of
mooooooo mooo moo, mo moooo mooo moo m mooooo moo m moo. Moo mooooooo mo

the Spouter-Inn had recommended us to his cousin Hosea Hussey of the
moo Moooooo-Moo moo moooooooooo mo mo moo mooooo Moooo Mooooo mo moo

Try Pots, whom he asserted to be the proprietor of one of the best kept
Moo Mooo, mooo mo mooooooo mo mo moo mooooooooo mo moo mo moo mooo mooo

hotels in all Nantucket, and moreover he had assured us that Cousin
mooooo mo moo Moooooooo, moo mooooooo mo moo moooooo mo mooo Mooooo

Hosea, as he called him, was famous for his chowders. In short, he
Moooo, mo mo mooooo moo, moo mooooo moo moo mooooooo. Mo moooo, mo

plainly hinted that we could not possibly do better than try pot-luck at
moooooo mooooo mooo mo moooo moo mooooooo mo mooooo mooo moo moo-mooo mo

the Try Pots. But the directions he had given us about keeping a yellow
moo Moo Mooo. Moo moo mooooooooo mo moo moooo mo moooo moooooo m mooooo

warehouse on our starboard hand till we opened a white church to the
moooooooo mo moo moooooooo mooo mooo mo mooooo m moooo mooooo mo moo

larboard, and then keeping that on the larboard hand till we made a
mooooooo, moo mooo moooooo mooo mo moo mooooooo mooo mooo mo mooo m

corner three points to the starboard, and that done, then ask the first
mooooo moooo mooooo mo moo moooooooo, moo mooo mooo, mooo moo moo moooo

man we met where the place was: these crooked directions of his very
moo mo moo moooo moo moooo moo: moooo moooooo mooooooooo mo moo mooo

much puzzled us at first, especially as, at the outset, Queequeg
mooo moooooo mo mo moooo, mooooooooo mo, mo moo mooooo, Mooooooo

insisted that the yellow warehouse--our first point of departure--must
mooooooo mooo moo mooooo moooooooo--moo moooo moooo mo moooooooo--mooo

be left on the larboard hand, whereas I had understood Peter Coffin to
mo mooo mo moo mooooooo mooo, moooooo M moo mooooooooo Moooo Mooooo mo

say it was on the starboard. However, by dint of beating about a little
moo mo moo mo moo moooooooo. Moooooo, mo mooo mo moooooo moooo m mooooo

in the dark, and now and then knocking up a peaceable inhabitant
mo moo mooo, moo moo moo mooo mooooooo mo m moooooooo mooooooooo

to inquire the way, we at last came to something which there was no
mo moooooo moo moo, mo mo mooo mooo mo moooooooo moooo moooo moo mo

mistaking.
moooooooo.




Two enormous wooden pots painted black, and suspended by asses' ears,
Moo mooooooo mooooo mooo moooooo moooo, moo moooooooo mo moooo' mooo,

swung from the cross-trees of an old top-mast, planted in front of an
moooo mooo moo moooo-moooo mo mo moo moo-mooo, moooooo mo moooo mo mo

old doorway. The horns of the cross-trees were sawed off on the other
moo moooooo. Moo moooo mo moo moooo-moooo mooo moooo moo mo moo moooo

side, so that this old top-mast looked not a little like a gallows.
mooo, mo mooo mooo moo moo-mooo mooooo moo m mooooo mooo m moooooo.

Perhaps I was over sensitive to such impressions at the time, but I
Moooooo M moo mooo moooooooo mo mooo moooooooooo mo moo mooo, moo M

could not help staring at this gallows with a vague misgiving. A sort of
moooo moo mooo moooooo mo mooo moooooo mooo m moooo moooooooo. M mooo mo

crick was in my neck as I gazed up to the two remaining horns; yes, TWO
moooo moo mo mo mooo mo M moooo mo mo moo moo moooooooo moooo; moo, MOO

of them, one for Queequeg, and one for me. It's ominous, thinks I. A
mo mooo, moo moo Mooooooo, moo moo moo mo. Mo'm moooooo, mooooo M. M

Coffin my Innkeeper upon landing in my first whaling port; tombstones
Mooooo mo Moooooooo mooo moooooo mo mo moooo moooooo mooo; mooooooooo

staring at me in the whalemen's chapel; and here a gallows! and a pair
moooooo mo mo mo moo mooooooo'm mooooo; moo mooo m moooooo! moo m mooo

of prodigious black pots too! Are these last throwing out oblique hints
mo mooooooooo moooo mooo moo! Moo moooo mooo mooooooo moo moooooo moooo

touching Tophet?
mooooooo Mooooo?




I was called from these reflections by the sight of a freckled woman
M moo mooooo mooo moooo moooooooooo mo moo moooo mo m mooooooo moooo

with yellow hair and a yellow gown, standing in the porch of the inn,
mooo mooooo mooo moo m mooooo mooo, mooooooo mo moo moooo mo moo moo,

under a dull red lamp swinging there, that looked much like an injured
moooo m mooo moo mooo mooooooo moooo, mooo mooooo mooo mooo mo moooooo

eye, and carrying on a brisk scolding with a man in a purple woollen
moo, moo mooooooo mo m moooo mooooooo mooo m moo mo m mooooo moooooo

shirt.
moooo.




"Get along with ye," said she to the man, "or I'll be combing ye!"
"Moo moooo mooo mo," mooo moo mo moo moo, "mo M'mo mo moooooo mo!"




"Come on, Queequeg," said I, "all right. There's Mrs. Hussey."
"Mooo mo, Mooooooo," mooo M, "moo moooo. Moooo'm Moo. Mooooo."




And so it turned out; Mr. Hosea Hussey being from home, but leaving
Moo mo mo mooooo moo; Mo. Moooo Mooooo moooo mooo mooo, moo moooooo

Mrs. Hussey entirely competent to attend to all his affairs. Upon
Moo. Mooooo mooooooo moooooooo mo mooooo mo moo moo moooooo. Mooo

making known our desires for a supper and a bed, Mrs. Hussey, postponing
mooooo moooo moo moooooo moo m mooooo moo m moo, Moo. Mooooo, mooooooooo

further scolding for the present, ushered us into a little room, and
moooooo mooooooo moo moo moooooo, moooooo mo mooo m mooooo mooo, moo

seating us at a table spread with the relics of a recently concluded
moooooo mo mo m moooo mooooo mooo moo mooooo mo m mooooooo moooooooo

repast, turned round to us and said--"Clam or Cod?"
mooooo, mooooo moooo mo mo moo mooo--"Mooo mo Moo?"




"What's that about Cods, ma'am?" said I, with much politeness.
"Mooo'm mooo moooo Mooo, mo'mo?" mooo M, mooo mooo mooooooooo.




"Clam or Cod?" she repeated.
"Mooo mo Moo?" moo mooooooo.




"A clam for supper? a cold clam; is THAT what you mean, Mrs. Hussey?"
"M mooo moo mooooo? m mooo mooo; mo MOOO mooo moo mooo, Moo. Mooooo?"

says I, "but that's a rather cold and clammy reception in the winter
mooo M, "moo mooo'm m mooooo mooo moo mooooo moooooooo mo moo mooooo

time, ain't it, Mrs. Hussey?"
mooo, moo'm mo, Moo. Mooooo?"




But being in a great hurry to resume scolding the man in the purple
Moo moooo mo m moooo moooo mo mooooo mooooooo moo moo mo moo mooooo

Shirt, who was waiting for it in the entry, and seeming to hear nothing
Moooo, moo moo moooooo moo mo mo moo moooo, moo moooooo mo mooo moooooo

but the word "clam," Mrs. Hussey hurried towards an open door leading to
moo moo mooo "mooo," Moo. Mooooo moooooo moooooo mo mooo mooo moooooo mo

the kitchen, and bawling out "clam for two," disappeared.
moo moooooo, moo moooooo moo "mooo moo moo," moooooooooo.




"Queequeg," said I, "do you think that we can make out a supper for us
"Mooooooo," mooo M, "mo moo moooo mooo mo moo mooo moo m mooooo moo mo

both on one clam?"
mooo mo moo mooo?"




However, a warm savory steam from the kitchen served to belie the
Moooooo, m mooo mooooo moooo mooo moo moooooo mooooo mo moooo moo

apparently cheerless prospect before us. But when that smoking chowder
mooooooooo moooooooo mooooooo mooooo mo. Moo mooo mooo moooooo moooooo

came in, the mystery was delightfully explained. Oh, sweet friends!
mooo mo, moo moooooo moo mooooooooooo moooooooo. Mo, moooo moooooo!

hearken to me. It was made of small juicy clams, scarcely bigger than
moooooo mo mo. Mo moo mooo mo moooo moooo moooo, mooooooo mooooo mooo

hazel nuts, mixed with pounded ship biscuit, and salted pork cut up into
moooo mooo, moooo mooo moooooo mooo moooooo, moo mooooo mooo moo mo mooo

little flakes; the whole enriched with butter, and plentifully seasoned
mooooo mooooo; moo moooo mooooooo mooo mooooo, moo moooooooooo mooooooo

with pepper and salt. Our appetites being sharpened by the frosty
mooo mooooo moo mooo. Moo moooooooo moooo moooooooo mo moo mooooo

voyage, and in particular, Queequeg seeing his favourite fishing food
mooooo, moo mo mooooooooo, Mooooooo mooooo moo moooooooo moooooo mooo

before him, and the chowder being surpassingly excellent, we despatched
mooooo moo, moo moo moooooo moooo mooooooooooo moooooooo, mo mooooooooo

it with great expedition: when leaning back a moment and bethinking
mo mooo moooo mooooooooo: mooo moooooo mooo m mooooo moo mooooooooo

me of Mrs. Hussey's clam and cod announcement, I thought I would try
mo mo Moo. Mooooo'm mooo moo moo mooooooooooo, M moooooo M moooo moo

a little experiment. Stepping to the kitchen door, I uttered the word
m mooooo mooooooooo. Mooooooo mo moo moooooo mooo, M moooooo moo mooo

"cod" with great emphasis, and resumed my seat. In a few moments the
"moo" mooo moooo mooooooo, moo moooooo mo mooo. Mo m moo moooooo moo

savoury steam came forth again, but with a different flavor, and in good
moooooo moooo mooo moooo moooo, moo mooo m moooooooo mooooo, moo mo mooo

time a fine cod-chowder was placed before us.
mooo m mooo moo-moooooo moo mooooo mooooo mo.




We resumed business; and while plying our spoons in the bowl, thinks I
Mo moooooo mooooooo; moo moooo mooooo moo mooooo mo moo mooo, mooooo M

to myself, I wonder now if this here has any effect on the head?
mo mooooo, M mooooo moo mo mooo mooo moo moo mooooo mo moo mooo?

What's that stultifying saying about chowder-headed people? "But look,
Mooo'm mooo moooooooooo mooooo moooo moooooo-mooooo mooooo? "Moo mooo,

Queequeg, ain't that a live eel in your bowl? Where's your harpoon?"
Mooooooo, moo'm mooo m mooo moo mo mooo mooo? Moooo'm mooo moooooo?"




Fishiest of all fishy places was the Try Pots, which well deserved
Mooooooo mo moo moooo mooooo moo moo Moo Mooo, moooo mooo mooooooo

its name; for the pots there were always boiling chowders. Chowder for
moo mooo; moo moo mooo moooo mooo mooooo moooooo mooooooo. Moooooo moo

breakfast, and chowder for dinner, and chowder for supper, till you
moooooooo, moo moooooo moo mooooo, moo moooooo moo mooooo, mooo moo

began to look for fish-bones coming through your clothes. The area
moooo mo mooo moo mooo-moooo mooooo moooooo mooo moooooo. Moo mooo

before the house was paved with clam-shells. Mrs. Hussey wore a polished
mooooo moo moooo moo moooo mooo mooo-mooooo. Moo. Mooooo mooo m mooooooo

necklace of codfish vertebra; and Hosea Hussey had his account books
mooooooo mo moooooo mooooooo; moo Moooo Mooooo moo moo moooooo moooo

bound in superior old shark-skin. There was a fishy flavor to the milk,
moooo mo mooooooo moo moooo-mooo. Moooo moo m moooo mooooo mo moo mooo,

too, which I could not at all account for, till one morning happening
moo, moooo M moooo moo mo moo moooooo moo, mooo moo moooooo moooooooo

to take a stroll along the beach among some fishermen's boats, I saw
mo mooo m mooooo moooo moo moooo moooo mooo moooooooo'm moooo, M moo

Hosea's brindled cow feeding on fish remnants, and marching along the
Moooo'm mooooooo moo moooooo mo mooo mooooooo, moo mooooooo moooo moo

sand with each foot in a cod's decapitated head, looking very slip-shod,
mooo mooo mooo mooo mo m moo'm moooooooooo mooo, moooooo mooo mooo-mooo,

I assure ye.
M mooooo mo.




Supper concluded, we received a lamp, and directions from Mrs. Hussey
Mooooo moooooooo, mo mooooooo m mooo, moo mooooooooo mooo Moo. Mooooo

concerning the nearest way to bed; but, as Queequeg was about to precede
mooooooooo moo moooooo moo mo moo; moo, mo Mooooooo moo moooo mo moooooo

me up the stairs, the lady reached forth her arm, and demanded his
mo mo moo mooooo, moo mooo moooooo moooo moo moo, moo mooooooo moo

harpoon; she allowed no harpoon in her chambers. "Why not?" said I;
moooooo; moo moooooo mo moooooo mo moo mooooooo. "Moo moo?" mooo M;

"every true whaleman sleeps with his harpoon--but why not?" "Because
"moooo mooo mooooooo mooooo mooo moo moooooo--moo moo moo?" "Moooooo

it's dangerous," says she. "Ever since young Stiggs coming from that
mo'm moooooooo," mooo moo. "Mooo moooo moooo Mooooo mooooo mooo mooo

unfort'nt v'y'ge of his, when he was gone four years and a half, with
mooooo'mo m'm'mo mo moo, mooo mo moo mooo mooo moooo moo m mooo, mooo

only three barrels of _ile_, was found dead in my first floor back, with
mooo moooo moooooo mo moooo, moo moooo mooo mo mo moooo moooo mooo, mooo

his harpoon in his side; ever since then I allow no boarders to take
moo moooooo mo moo mooo; mooo moooo mooo M moooo mo mooooooo mo mooo

sich dangerous weepons in their rooms at night. So, Mr. Queequeg" (for
mooo moooooooo moooooo mo moooo moooo mo moooo. Mo, Mo. Mooooooo" (moo

she had learned his name), "I will just take this here iron, and keep
moo moo moooooo moo mooo), "M mooo mooo mooo mooo mooo mooo, moo mooo

it for you till morning. But the chowder; clam or cod to-morrow for
mo moo moo mooo moooooo. Moo moo moooooo; mooo mo moo mo-mooooo moo

breakfast, men?"
moooooooo, moo?"




"Both," says I; "and let's have a couple of smoked herring by way of
"Mooo," mooo M; "moo moo'm mooo m mooooo mo mooooo moooooo mo moo mo

variety."
moooooo."










CHAPTER 16. The Ship.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Mooo.







In bed we concocted our plans for the morrow. But to my surprise and
Mo moo mo moooooooo moo moooo moo moo mooooo. Moo mo mo mooooooo moo

no small concern, Queequeg now gave me to understand, that he had been
mo moooo moooooo, Mooooooo moo mooo mo mo mooooooooo, mooo mo moo mooo

diligently consulting Yojo--the name of his black little god--and Yojo
mooooooooo mooooooooo Mooo--moo mooo mo moo moooo mooooo moo--moo Mooo

had told him two or three times over, and strongly insisted upon it
moo mooo moo moo mo moooo moooo mooo, moo mooooooo mooooooo mooo mo

everyway, that instead of our going together among the whaling-fleet in
mooooooo, mooo moooooo mo moo moooo mooooooo moooo moo moooooo-moooo mo

harbor, and in concert selecting our craft; instead of this, I say, Yojo
mooooo, moo mo moooooo moooooooo moo moooo; moooooo mo mooo, M moo, Mooo

earnestly enjoined that the selection of the ship should rest wholly
moooooooo mooooooo mooo moo moooooooo mo moo mooo mooooo mooo mooooo

with me, inasmuch as Yojo purposed befriending us; and, in order to
mooo mo, mooooooo mo Mooo mooooooo moooooooooo mo; moo, mo moooo mo

do so, had already pitched upon a vessel, which, if left to myself, I,
mo mo, moo moooooo moooooo mooo m mooooo, moooo, mo mooo mo mooooo, M,

Ishmael, should infallibly light upon, for all the world as though it
Moooooo, mooooo mooooooooo moooo mooo, moo moo moo moooo mo mooooo mo

had turned out by chance; and in that vessel I must immediately ship
moo mooooo moo mo mooooo; moo mo mooo mooooo M mooo moooooooooo mooo

myself, for the present irrespective of Queequeg.
mooooo, moo moo moooooo mooooooooooo mo Mooooooo.




I have forgotten to mention that, in many things, Queequeg placed great
M mooo moooooooo mo moooooo mooo, mo mooo mooooo, Mooooooo mooooo moooo

confidence in the excellence of Yojo's judgment and surprising forecast
mooooooooo mo moo mooooooooo mo Mooo'm mooooooo moo mooooooooo mooooooo

of things; and cherished Yojo with considerable esteem, as a rather good
mo mooooo; moo moooooooo Mooo mooo mooooooooooo mooooo, mo m mooooo mooo

sort of god, who perhaps meant well enough upon the whole, but in all
mooo mo moo, moo moooooo moooo mooo mooooo mooo moo moooo, moo mo moo

cases did not succeed in his benevolent designs.
moooo moo moo moooooo mo moo mooooooooo moooooo.




Now, this plan of Queequeg's, or rather Yojo's, touching the selection
Moo, mooo mooo mo Mooooooo'm, mo mooooo Mooo'm, mooooooo moo moooooooo

of our craft; I did not like that plan at all. I had not a little relied
mo moo moooo; M moo moo mooo mooo mooo mo moo. M moo moo m mooooo mooooo

upon Queequeg's sagacity to point out the whaler best fitted to carry
mooo Mooooooo'm mooooooo mo moooo moo moo mooooo mooo mooooo mo moooo

us and our fortunes securely. But as all my remonstrances produced
mo moo moo mooooooo mooooooo. Moo mo moo mo moooooooooooo mooooooo

no effect upon Queequeg, I was obliged to acquiesce; and accordingly
mo mooooo mooo Mooooooo, M moo moooooo mo moooooooo; moo moooooooooo

prepared to set about this business with a determined rushing sort
mooooooo mo moo moooo mooo mooooooo mooo m mooooooooo moooooo mooo

of energy and vigor, that should quickly settle that trifling little
mo mooooo moo moooo, mooo mooooo moooooo mooooo mooo mooooooo mooooo

affair. Next morning early, leaving Queequeg shut up with Yojo in our
mooooo. Mooo moooooo moooo, moooooo Mooooooo mooo mo mooo Mooo mo moo

little bedroom--for it seemed that it was some sort of Lent or Ramadan,
mooooo moooooo--moo mo mooooo mooo mo moo mooo mooo mo Mooo mo Moooooo,

or day of fasting, humiliation, and prayer with Queequeg and Yojo that
mo moo mo moooooo, moooooooooo, moo mooooo mooo Mooooooo moo Mooo mooo

day; HOW it was I never could find out, for, though I applied myself
moo; MOO mo moo M moooo moooo mooo moo, moo, mooooo M moooooo mooooo

to it several times, I never could master his liturgies and XXXIX
mo mo moooooo moooo, M moooo moooo mooooo moo moooooooo moo MOOOO

Articles--leaving Queequeg, then, fasting on his tomahawk pipe, and Yojo
Mooooooo--moooooo Mooooooo, mooo, moooooo mo moo mooooooo mooo, moo Mooo

warming himself at his sacrificial fire of shavings, I sallied out among
moooooo moooooo mo moo moooooooooo mooo mo mooooooo, M moooooo moo moooo

the shipping. After much prolonged sauntering and many random inquiries,
moo mooooooo. Moooo mooo moooooooo mooooooooo moo mooo mooooo moooooooo,

I learnt that there were three ships up for three-years' voyages--The
M mooooo mooo moooo mooo moooo moooo mo moo moooo-moooo' moooooo--Moo

Devil-dam, the Tit-bit, and the Pequod. DEVIL-DAM, I do not know the
Moooo-moo, moo Moo-moo, moo moo Mooooo. MOOOO-MOO, M mo moo mooo moo

origin of; TIT-BIT is obvious; PEQUOD, you will no doubt remember, was
mooooo mo; MOO-MOO mo moooooo; MOOOOO, moo mooo mo moooo mooooooo, moo

the name of a celebrated tribe of Massachusetts Indians; now extinct
moo mooo mo m mooooooooo moooo mo Moooooooooooo Moooooo; moo moooooo

as the ancient Medes. I peered and pryed about the Devil-dam; from her,
mo moo moooooo Moooo. M mooooo moo moooo moooo moo Moooo-moo; mooo moo,

hopped over to the Tit-bit; and finally, going on board the Pequod,
mooooo mooo mo moo Moo-moo; moo moooooo, moooo mo moooo moo Mooooo,

looked around her for a moment, and then decided that this was the very
mooooo mooooo moo moo m mooooo, moo mooo moooooo mooo mooo moo moo mooo

ship for us.
mooo moo mo.




You may have seen many a quaint craft in your day, for aught I
Moo moo mooo mooo mooo m mooooo moooo mo mooo moo, moo moooo M

know;--square-toed luggers; mountainous Japanese junks; butter-box
mooo;--mooooo-mooo moooooo; moooooooooo Mooooooo moooo; mooooo-moo

galliots, and what not; but take my word for it, you never saw such a
mooooooo, moo mooo moo; moo mooo mo mooo moo mo, moo moooo moo mooo m

rare old craft as this same rare old Pequod. She was a ship of the old
mooo moo moooo mo mooo mooo mooo moo Mooooo. Moo moo m mooo mo moo moo

school, rather small if anything; with an old-fashioned claw-footed look
mooooo, mooooo moooo mo mooooooo; mooo mo moo-moooooooo mooo-mooooo mooo

about her. Long seasoned and weather-stained in the typhoons and calms
moooo moo. Mooo mooooooo moo moooooo-moooooo mo moo mooooooo moo moooo

of all four oceans, her old hull's complexion was darkened like a French
mo moo mooo mooooo, moo moo mooo'm mooooooooo moo mooooooo mooo m Mooooo

grenadier's, who has alike fought in Egypt and Siberia. Her venerable
moooooooo'm, moo moo moooo mooooo mo Moooo moo Moooooo. Moo moooooooo

bows looked bearded. Her masts--cut somewhere on the coast of Japan,
mooo mooooo moooooo. Moo moooo--moo moooooooo mo moo moooo mo Moooo,

where her original ones were lost overboard in a gale--her masts stood
moooo moo mooooooo mooo mooo mooo moooooooo mo m mooo--moo moooo moooo

stiffly up like the spines of the three old kings of Cologne. Her
moooooo mo mooo moo mooooo mo moo moooo moo moooo mo Moooooo. Moo

ancient decks were worn and wrinkled, like the pilgrim-worshipped
moooooo moooo mooo mooo moo mooooooo, mooo moo moooooo-mooooooooo

flag-stone in Canterbury Cathedral where Becket bled. But to all these
mooo-moooo mo Mooooooooo Moooooooo moooo Mooooo mooo. Moo mo moo moooo

her old antiquities, were added new and marvellous features, pertaining
moo moo moooooooooo, mooo moooo moo moo mooooooooo mooooooo, mooooooooo

to the wild business that for more than half a century she had followed.
mo moo mooo mooooooo mooo moo mooo mooo mooo m moooooo moo moo mooooooo.

Old Captain Peleg, many years her chief-mate, before he commanded
Moo Moooooo Moooo, mooo moooo moo moooo-mooo, mooooo mo moooooooo

another vessel of his own, and now a retired seaman, and one of the
moooooo mooooo mo moo moo, moo moo m moooooo mooooo, moo moo mo moo

principal owners of the Pequod,--this old Peleg, during the term of his
moooooooo mooooo mo moo Mooooo,--mooo moo Moooo, mooooo moo mooo mo moo

chief-mateship, had built upon her original grotesqueness, and inlaid
moooo-mooooooo, moo moooo mooo moo mooooooo moooooooooooo, moo mooooo

it, all over, with a quaintness both of material and device, unmatched
mo, moo mooo, mooo m mooooooooo mooo mo mooooooo moo mooooo, moooooooo

by anything except it be Thorkill-Hake's carved buckler or bedstead. She
mo mooooooo mooooo mo mo Mooooooo-Mooo'm mooooo moooooo mo mooooooo. Moo

was apparelled like any barbaric Ethiopian emperor, his neck heavy with
moo mooooooooo mooo moo mooooooo Moooooooo moooooo, moo mooo moooo mooo

pendants of polished ivory. She was a thing of trophies. A cannibal of
mooooooo mo mooooooo moooo. Moo moo m moooo mo mooooooo. M mooooooo mo

a craft, tricking herself forth in the chased bones of her enemies. All
m moooo, mooooooo moooooo moooo mo moo mooooo moooo mo moo moooooo. Moo

round, her unpanelled, open bulwarks were garnished like one continuous
moooo, moo mooooooooo, mooo mooooooo mooo moooooooo mooo moo mooooooooo

jaw, with the long sharp teeth of the sperm whale, inserted there for
moo, mooo moo mooo moooo moooo mo moo moooo moooo, mooooooo moooo moo

pins, to fasten her old hempen thews and tendons to. Those thews ran not
mooo, mo mooooo moo moo mooooo moooo moo moooooo mo. Moooo moooo moo moo

through base blocks of land wood, but deftly travelled over sheaves of
moooooo mooo mooooo mo mooo mooo, moo mooooo moooooooo mooo moooooo mo

sea-ivory. Scorning a turnstile wheel at her reverend helm, she sported
moo-moooo. Mooooooo m moooooooo moooo mo moo mooooooo mooo, moo moooooo

there a tiller; and that tiller was in one mass, curiously carved
moooo m mooooo; moo mooo mooooo moo mo moo mooo, moooooooo mooooo

from the long narrow lower jaw of her hereditary foe. The helmsman who
mooo moo mooo mooooo moooo moo mo moo mooooooooo moo. Moo mooooooo moo

steered by that tiller in a tempest, felt like the Tartar, when he holds
moooooo mo mooo mooooo mo m moooooo, mooo mooo moo Mooooo, mooo mo moooo

back his fiery steed by clutching its jaw. A noble craft, but somehow a
mooo moo moooo moooo mo moooooooo moo moo. M moooo moooo, moo moooooo m

most melancholy! All noble things are touched with that.
mooo mooooooooo! Moo moooo mooooo moo moooooo mooo mooo.




Now when I looked about the quarter-deck, for some one having authority,
Moo mooo M mooooo moooo moo moooooo-mooo, moo mooo moo mooooo moooooooo,

in order to propose myself as a candidate for the voyage, at first I saw
mo moooo mo moooooo mooooo mo m moooooooo moo moo mooooo, mo moooo M moo

nobody; but I could not well overlook a strange sort of tent, or
mooooo; moo M moooo moo mooo mooooooo m moooooo mooo mo mooo, mo

rather wigwam, pitched a little behind the main-mast. It seemed only
mooooo mooooo, moooooo m mooooo mooooo moo mooo-mooo. Mo mooooo mooo

a temporary erection used in port. It was of a conical shape, some ten
m moooooooo mooooooo mooo mo mooo. Mo moo mo m moooooo moooo, mooo moo

feet high; consisting of the long, huge slabs of limber black bone taken
mooo mooo; mooooooooo mo moo mooo, mooo moooo mo mooooo moooo mooo moooo

from the middle and highest part of the jaws of the right-whale.
mooo moo mooooo moo moooooo mooo mo moo mooo mo moo moooo-moooo.

Planted with their broad ends on the deck, a circle of these slabs laced
Moooooo mooo moooo moooo mooo mo moo mooo, m mooooo mo moooo moooo moooo

together, mutually sloped towards each other, and at the apex united in
mooooooo, mooooooo mooooo moooooo mooo moooo, moo mo moo mooo mooooo mo

a tufted point, where the loose hairy fibres waved to and fro like the
m mooooo moooo, moooo moo moooo moooo mooooo moooo mo moo moo mooo moo

top-knot on some old Pottowottamie Sachem's head. A triangular opening
moo-mooo mo mooo moo Moooooooooooo Mooooo'm mooo. M mooooooooo moooooo

faced towards the bows of the ship, so that the insider commanded a
moooo moooooo moo mooo mo moo mooo, mo mooo moo moooooo moooooooo m

complete view forward.
mooooooo mooo moooooo.




And half concealed in this queer tenement, I at length found one who
Moo mooo moooooooo mo mooo moooo mooooooo, M mo mooooo moooo moo moo

by his aspect seemed to have authority; and who, it being noon, and
mo moo mooooo mooooo mo mooo moooooooo; moo moo, mo moooo mooo, moo

the ship's work suspended, was now enjoying respite from the burden of
moo mooo'm mooo moooooooo, moo moo mooooooo moooooo mooo moo mooooo mo

command. He was seated on an old-fashioned oaken chair, wriggling all
moooooo. Mo moo mooooo mo mo moo-moooooooo moooo moooo, moooooooo moo

over with curious carving; and the bottom of which was formed of a
mooo mooo moooooo moooooo; moo moo mooooo mo moooo moo mooooo mo m

stout interlacing of the same elastic stuff of which the wigwam was
moooo moooooooooo mo moo mooo moooooo moooo mo moooo moo mooooo moo

constructed.
moooooooooo.




There was nothing so very particular, perhaps, about the appearance of
Moooo moo moooooo mo mooo mooooooooo, moooooo, moooo moo mooooooooo mo

the elderly man I saw; he was brown and brawny, like most old seamen,
moo moooooo moo M moo; mo moo moooo moo mooooo, mooo mooo moo mooooo,

and heavily rolled up in blue pilot-cloth, cut in the Quaker style;
moo moooooo mooooo mo mo mooo moooo-moooo, moo mo moo Mooooo moooo;

only there was a fine and almost microscopic net-work of the minutest
mooo moooo moo m mooo moo mooooo moooooooooo moo-mooo mo moo mooooooo

wrinkles interlacing round his eyes, which must have arisen from
mooooooo moooooooooo moooo moo mooo, moooo mooo mooo mooooo mooo

his continual sailings in many hard gales, and always looking to
moo moooooooo mooooooo mo mooo mooo moooo, moo mooooo moooooo mo

windward;--for this causes the muscles about the eyes to become pursed
mooooooo;--moo mooo mooooo moo moooooo moooo moo mooo mo mooooo mooooo

together. Such eye-wrinkles are very effectual in a scowl.
mooooooo. Mooo moo-mooooooo moo mooo moooooooo mo m moooo.




"Is this the Captain of the Pequod?" said I, advancing to the door of
"Mo mooo moo Moooooo mo moo Mooooo?" mooo M, moooooooo mo moo mooo mo

the tent.
moo mooo.




"Supposing it be the captain of the Pequod, what dost thou want of him?"
"Moooooooo mo mo moo moooooo mo moo Mooooo, mooo mooo mooo mooo mo moo?"

he demanded.
mo mooooooo.




"I was thinking of shipping."
"M moo mooooooo mo mooooooo."




"Thou wast, wast thou? I see thou art no Nantucketer--ever been in a
"Mooo mooo, mooo mooo? M moo mooo moo mo Moooooooooo--mooo mooo mo m

stove boat?"
moooo mooo?"




"No, Sir, I never have."
"Mo, Moo, M moooo mooo."




"Dost know nothing at all about whaling, I dare say--eh?
"Mooo mooo moooooo mo moo moooo moooooo, M mooo moo--mo?




"Nothing, Sir; but I have no doubt I shall soon learn. I've been several
"Moooooo, Moo; moo M mooo mo moooo M moooo mooo moooo. M'mo mooo moooooo

voyages in the merchant service, and I think that--"
moooooo mo moo mooooooo moooooo, moo M moooo mooo--"




"Merchant service be damned. Talk not that lingo to me. Dost see that
"Mooooooo moooooo mo mooooo. Mooo moo mooo moooo mo mo. Mooo moo mooo

leg?--I'll take that leg away from thy stern, if ever thou talkest of
moo?--M'mo mooo mooo moo mooo mooo moo moooo, mo mooo mooo moooooo mo

the marchant service to me again. Marchant service indeed! I suppose now
moo mooooooo moooooo mo mo moooo. Mooooooo moooooo mooooo! M moooooo moo

ye feel considerable proud of having served in those marchant ships.
mo mooo mooooooooooo moooo mo mooooo mooooo mo moooo mooooooo moooo.

But flukes! man, what makes thee want to go a whaling, eh?--it looks
Moo mooooo! moo, mooo moooo mooo mooo mo mo m moooooo, mo?--mo moooo

a little suspicious, don't it, eh?--Hast not been a pirate, hast
m mooooo mooooooooo, moo'm mo, mo?--Mooo moo mooo m mooooo, mooo

thou?--Didst not rob thy last Captain, didst thou?--Dost not think of
mooo?--Moooo moo moo moo mooo Moooooo, moooo mooo?--Mooo moo moooo mo

murdering the officers when thou gettest to sea?"
moooooooo moo mooooooo mooo mooo moooooo mo moo?"




I protested my innocence of these things. I saw that under the mask
M moooooooo mo moooooooo mo moooo mooooo. M moo mooo moooo moo mooo

of these half humorous innuendoes, this old seaman, as an insulated
mo moooo mooo mooooooo mooooooooo, mooo moo mooooo, mo mo moooooooo

Quakerish Nantucketer, was full of his insular prejudices, and rather
Moooooooo Moooooooooo, moo mooo mo moo moooooo mooooooooo, moo mooooo

distrustful of all aliens, unless they hailed from Cape Cod or the
moooooooooo mo moo mooooo, mooooo mooo mooooo mooo Mooo Moo mo moo

Vineyard.
Mooooooo.




"But what takes thee a-whaling? I want to know that before I think of
"Moo mooo moooo mooo m-moooooo? M mooo mo mooo mooo mooooo M moooo mo

shipping ye."
mooooooo mo."




"Well, sir, I want to see what whaling is. I want to see the world."
"Mooo, moo, M mooo mo moo mooo moooooo mo. M mooo mo moo moo moooo."




"Want to see what whaling is, eh? Have ye clapped eye on Captain Ahab?"
"Mooo mo moo mooo moooooo mo, mo? Mooo mo moooooo moo mo Moooooo Mooo?"




"Who is Captain Ahab, sir?"
"Moo mo Moooooo Mooo, moo?"




"Aye, aye, I thought so. Captain Ahab is the Captain of this ship."
"Moo, moo, M moooooo mo. Moooooo Mooo mo moo Moooooo mo mooo mooo."




"I am mistaken then. I thought I was speaking to the Captain himself."
"M mo mooooooo mooo. M moooooo M moo mooooooo mo moo Moooooo moooooo."




"Thou art speaking to Captain Peleg--that's who ye are speaking to,
"Mooo moo mooooooo mo Moooooo Moooo--mooo'm moo mo moo mooooooo mo,

young man. It belongs to me and Captain Bildad to see the Pequod fitted
moooo moo. Mo moooooo mo mo moo Moooooo Mooooo mo moo moo Mooooo mooooo

out for the voyage, and supplied with all her needs, including crew. We
moo moo moo mooooo, moo mooooooo mooo moo moo moooo, moooooooo mooo. Mo

are part owners and agents. But as I was going to say, if thou wantest
moo mooo mooooo moo mooooo. Moo mo M moo moooo mo moo, mo mooo moooooo

to know what whaling is, as thou tellest ye do, I can put ye in a way of
mo mooo mooo moooooo mo, mo mooo moooooo mo mo, M moo moo mo mo m moo mo

finding it out before ye bind yourself to it, past backing out. Clap
moooooo mo moo mooooo mo mooo mooooooo mo mo, mooo moooooo moo. Mooo

eye on Captain Ahab, young man, and thou wilt find that he has only one
moo mo Moooooo Mooo, moooo moo, moo mooo mooo mooo mooo mo moo mooo moo

leg."
moo."




"What do you mean, sir? Was the other one lost by a whale?"
"Mooo mo moo mooo, moo? Moo moo moooo moo mooo mo m moooo?"




"Lost by a whale! Young man, come nearer to me: it was devoured,
"Mooo mo m moooo! Moooo moo, mooo mooooo mo mo: mo moo mooooooo,

chewed up, crunched by the monstrousest parmacetty that ever chipped a
mooooo mo, mooooooo mo moo mooooooooooo mooooooooo mooo mooo moooooo m

boat!--ah, ah!"
mooo!--mo, mo!"




I was a little alarmed by his energy, perhaps also a little touched at
M moo m mooooo moooooo mo moo mooooo, moooooo mooo m mooooo moooooo mo

the hearty grief in his concluding exclamation, but said as calmly as I
moo mooooo moooo mo moo mooooooooo moooooooooo, moo mooo mo mooooo mo M

could, "What you say is no doubt true enough, sir; but how could I know
moooo, "Mooo moo moo mo mo moooo mooo mooooo, moo; moo moo moooo M mooo

there was any peculiar ferocity in that particular whale, though indeed
moooo moo moo mooooooo mooooooo mo mooo mooooooooo moooo, mooooo mooooo

I might have inferred as much from the simple fact of the accident."
M moooo mooo mooooooo mo mooo mooo moo mooooo mooo mo moo mooooooo."




"Look ye now, young man, thy lungs are a sort of soft, d'ye see; thou
"Mooo mo moo, moooo moo, moo moooo moo m mooo mo mooo, m'mo moo; mooo

dost not talk shark a bit. SURE, ye've been to sea before now; sure of
mooo moo mooo moooo m moo. MOOO, mo'mo mooo mo moo mooooo moo; mooo mo

that?"
mooo?"




"Sir," said I, "I thought I told you that I had been four voyages in the
"Moo," mooo M, "M moooooo M mooo moo mooo M moo mooo mooo moooooo mo moo

merchant--"
mooooooo--"




"Hard down out of that! Mind what I said about the marchant
"Mooo mooo moo mo mooo! Mooo mooo M mooo moooo moo mooooooo

service--don't aggravate me--I won't have it. But let us understand each
moooooo--moo'm moooooooo mo--M moo'm mooo mo. Moo moo mo mooooooooo mooo

other. I have given thee a hint about what whaling is; do ye yet feel
moooo. M mooo moooo mooo m mooo moooo mooo moooooo mo; mo mo moo mooo

inclined for it?"
mooooooo moo mo?"




"I do, sir."
"M mo, moo."




"Very good. Now, art thou the man to pitch a harpoon down a live whale's
"Mooo mooo. Moo, moo mooo moo moo mo moooo m moooooo mooo m mooo moooo'm

throat, and then jump after it? Answer, quick!"
mooooo, moo mooo mooo moooo mo? Mooooo, moooo!"




"I am, sir, if it should be positively indispensable to do so; not to be
"M mo, moo, mo mo mooooo mo mooooooooo moooooooooooo mo mo mo; moo mo mo

got rid of, that is; which I don't take to be the fact."
moo moo mo, mooo mo; moooo M moo'm mooo mo mo moo mooo."




"Good again. Now then, thou not only wantest to go a-whaling, to find
"Mooo moooo. Moo mooo, mooo moo mooo moooooo mo mo m-moooooo, mo mooo

out by experience what whaling is, but ye also want to go in order to
moo mo mooooooooo mooo moooooo mo, moo mo mooo mooo mo mo mo moooo mo

see the world? Was not that what ye said? I thought so. Well then, just
moo moo moooo? Moo moo mooo mooo mo mooo? M moooooo mo. Mooo mooo, mooo

step forward there, and take a peep over the weather-bow, and then back
mooo moooooo moooo, moo mooo m mooo mooo moo moooooo-moo, moo mooo mooo

to me and tell me what ye see there."
mo mo moo mooo mo mooo mo moo moooo."




For a moment I stood a little puzzled by this curious request, not
Moo m mooooo M moooo m mooooo moooooo mo mooo moooooo moooooo, moo

knowing exactly how to take it, whether humorously or in earnest. But
moooooo moooooo moo mo mooo mo, moooooo mooooooooo mo mo moooooo. Moo

concentrating all his crow's feet into one scowl, Captain Peleg started
moooooooooooo moo moo mooo'm mooo mooo moo moooo, Moooooo Moooo moooooo

me on the errand.
mo mo moo mooooo.




Going forward and glancing over the weather bow, I perceived that the
Moooo moooooo moo mooooooo mooo moo moooooo moo, M moooooooo mooo moo

ship swinging to her anchor with the flood-tide, was now obliquely
mooo mooooooo mo moo mooooo mooo moo moooo-mooo, moo moo moooooooo

pointing towards the open ocean. The prospect was unlimited, but
mooooooo moooooo moo mooo moooo. Moo mooooooo moo moooooooo, moo

exceedingly monotonous and forbidding; not the slightest variety that I
moooooooooo mooooooooo moo mooooooooo; moo moo moooooooo moooooo mooo M

could see.
moooo moo.




"Well, what's the report?" said Peleg when I came back; "what did ye
"Mooo, mooo'm moo mooooo?" mooo Moooo mooo M mooo mooo; "mooo moo mo

see?"
moo?"




"Not much," I replied--"nothing but water; considerable horizon though,
"Moo mooo," M moooooo--"moooooo moo moooo; mooooooooooo moooooo mooooo,

and there's a squall coming up, I think."
moo moooo'm m mooooo mooooo mo, M moooo."




"Well, what does thou think then of seeing the world? Do ye wish to go
"Mooo, mooo mooo mooo moooo mooo mo mooooo moo moooo? Mo mo mooo mo mo

round Cape Horn to see any more of it, eh? Can't ye see the world where
moooo Mooo Mooo mo moo moo mooo mo mo, mo? Moo'm mo moo moo moooo moooo

you stand?"
moo moooo?"




I was a little staggered, but go a-whaling I must, and I would; and the
M moo m mooooo moooooooo, moo mo m-moooooo M mooo, moo M moooo; moo moo

Pequod was as good a ship as any--I thought the best--and all this I now
Mooooo moo mo mooo m mooo mo moo--M moooooo moo mooo--moo moo mooo M moo

repeated to Peleg. Seeing me so determined, he expressed his willingness
mooooooo mo Moooo. Mooooo mo mo mooooooooo, mo moooooooo moo moooooooooo

to ship me.
mo mooo mo.




"And thou mayest as well sign the papers right off," he added--"come
"Moo mooo mooooo mo mooo mooo moo mooooo moooo moo," mo moooo--"mooo

along with ye." And so saying, he led the way below deck into the cabin.
moooo mooo mo." Moo mo mooooo, mo moo moo moo moooo mooo mooo moo moooo.




Seated on the transom was what seemed to me a most uncommon and
Mooooo mo moo moooooo moo mooo mooooo mo mo m mooo mooooooo moo

surprising figure. It turned out to be Captain Bildad, who along with
mooooooooo mooooo. Mo mooooo moo mo mo Moooooo Mooooo, moo moooo mooo

Captain Peleg was one of the largest owners of the vessel; the other
Moooooo Moooo moo moo mo moo moooooo mooooo mo moo mooooo; moo moooo

shares, as is sometimes the case in these ports, being held by a crowd
mooooo, mo mo moooooooo moo mooo mo moooo moooo, moooo mooo mo m moooo

of old annuitants; widows, fatherless children, and chancery wards; each
mo moo mooooooooo; mooooo, mooooooooo mooooooo, moo mooooooo moooo; mooo

owning about the value of a timber head, or a foot of plank, or a nail
mooooo moooo moo moooo mo m mooooo mooo, mo m mooo mo moooo, mo m mooo

or two in the ship. People in Nantucket invest their money in whaling
mo moo mo moo mooo. Mooooo mo Moooooooo mooooo moooo moooo mo moooooo

vessels, the same way that you do yours in approved state stocks
moooooo, moo mooo moo mooo moo mo moooo mo mooooooo moooo mooooo

bringing in good interest.
mooooooo mo mooo mooooooo.




Now, Bildad, like Peleg, and indeed many other Nantucketers, was a
Moo, Mooooo, mooo Moooo, moo mooooo mooo moooo Mooooooooooo, moo m

Quaker, the island having been originally settled by that sect; and to
Mooooo, moo mooooo mooooo mooo mooooooooo moooooo mo mooo mooo; moo mo

this day its inhabitants in general retain in an uncommon measure the
mooo moo moo moooooooooo mo moooooo mooooo mo mo mooooooo moooooo moo

peculiarities of the Quaker, only variously and anomalously modified
moooooooooooo mo moo Mooooo, mooo moooooooo moo moooooooooo mooooooo

by things altogether alien and heterogeneous. For some of these same
mo mooooo mooooooooo moooo moo moooooooooooo. Moo mooo mo moooo mooo

Quakers are the most sanguinary of all sailors and whale-hunters. They
Moooooo moo moo mooo mooooooooo mo moo moooooo moo moooo-moooooo. Mooo

are fighting Quakers; they are Quakers with a vengeance.
moo mooooooo Moooooo; mooo moo Moooooo mooo m moooooooo.




So that there are instances among them of men, who, named with Scripture
Mo mooo moooo moo moooooooo moooo mooo mo moo, moo, moooo mooo Moooooooo

names--a singularly common fashion on the island--and in childhood
moooo--m mooooooooo mooooo moooooo mo moo mooooo--moo mo moooooooo

naturally imbibing the stately dramatic thee and thou of the Quaker
moooooooo mooooooo moo moooooo mooooooo mooo moo mooo mo moo Mooooo

idiom; still, from the audacious, daring, and boundless adventure
moooo; moooo, mooo moo moooooooo, mooooo, moo moooooooo moooooooo

of their subsequent lives, strangely blend with these unoutgrown
mo moooo mooooooooo moooo, moooooooo moooo mooo moooo mooooooooo

peculiarities, a thousand bold dashes of character, not unworthy a
moooooooooooo, m mooooooo mooo mooooo mo moooooooo, moo mooooooo m

Scandinavian sea-king, or a poetical Pagan Roman. And when these things
Mooooooooooo moo-mooo, mo m mooooooo Moooo Moooo. Moo mooo moooo mooooo

unite in a man of greatly superior natural force, with a globular brain
moooo mo m moo mo moooooo mooooooo moooooo moooo, mooo m mooooooo moooo

and a ponderous heart; who has also by the stillness and seclusion
moo m moooooooo moooo; moo moo mooo mo moo moooooooo moo moooooooo

of many long night-watches in the remotest waters, and beneath
mo mooo mooo moooo-moooooo mo moo mooooooo mooooo, moo moooooo

constellations never seen here at the north, been led to think
mooooooooooooo moooo mooo mooo mo moo moooo, mooo moo mo moooo

untraditionally and independently; receiving all nature's sweet or
moooooooooooooo moo moooooooooooo; moooooooo moo mooooo'm moooo mo

savage impressions fresh from her own virgin voluntary and confiding
mooooo moooooooooo moooo mooo moo moo mooooo moooooooo moo moooooooo

breast, and thereby chiefly, but with some help from accidental
mooooo, moo moooooo moooooo, moo mooo mooo mooo mooo mooooooooo

advantages, to learn a bold and nervous lofty language--that man makes
mooooooooo, mo moooo m mooo moo moooooo moooo mooooooo--mooo moo moooo

one in a whole nation's census--a mighty pageant creature, formed for
moo mo m moooo mooooo'm mooooo--m mooooo moooooo mooooooo, mooooo moo

noble tragedies. Nor will it at all detract from him, dramatically
moooo moooooooo. Moo mooo mo mo moo moooooo mooo moo, mooooooooooo

regarded, if either by birth or other circumstances, he have what seems
mooooooo, mo mooooo mo moooo mo moooo moooooooooooo, mo mooo mooo moooo

a half wilful overruling morbidness at the bottom of his nature. For all
m mooo mooooo mooooooooo mooooooooo mo moo mooooo mo moo mooooo. Moo moo

men tragically great are made so through a certain morbidness. Be sure
moo mooooooooo moooo moo mooo mo moooooo m moooooo mooooooooo. Mo mooo

of this, O young ambition, all mortal greatness is but disease. But,
mo mooo, M moooo mooooooo, moo mooooo moooooooo mo moo moooooo. Moo,

as yet we have not to do with such an one, but with quite another; and
mo moo mo mooo moo mo mo mooo mooo mo moo, moo mooo moooo moooooo; moo

still a man, who, if indeed peculiar, it only results again from another
moooo m moo, moo, mo mooooo mooooooo, mo mooo moooooo moooo mooo moooooo

phase of the Quaker, modified by individual circumstances.
moooo mo moo Mooooo, mooooooo mo mooooooooo moooooooooooo.




Like Captain Peleg, Captain Bildad was a well-to-do, retired whaleman.
Mooo Moooooo Moooo, Moooooo Mooooo moo m mooo-mo-mo, moooooo mooooooo.

But unlike Captain Peleg--who cared not a rush for what are called
Moo mooooo Moooooo Moooo--moo moooo moo m mooo moo mooo moo mooooo

serious things, and indeed deemed those self-same serious things the
moooooo mooooo, moo mooooo mooooo moooo mooo-mooo moooooo mooooo moo

veriest of all trifles--Captain Bildad had not only been originally
moooooo mo moo moooooo--Moooooo Mooooo moo moo mooo mooo mooooooooo

educated according to the strictest sect of Nantucket Quakerism, but all
mooooooo moooooooo mo moo moooooooo mooo mo Moooooooo Moooooooo, moo moo

his subsequent ocean life, and the sight of many unclad, lovely island
moo mooooooooo moooo mooo, moo moo moooo mo mooo mooooo, mooooo mooooo

creatures, round the Horn--all that had not moved this native born
moooooooo, moooo moo Mooo--moo mooo moo moo moooo mooo mooooo mooo

Quaker one single jot, had not so much as altered one angle of his
Mooooo moo mooooo moo, moo moo mo mooo mo moooooo moo moooo mo moo

vest. Still, for all this immutableness, was there some lack of
mooo. Moooo, moo moo mooo moooooooooooo, moo moooo mooo mooo mo

common consistency about worthy Captain Peleg. Though refusing, from
mooooo moooooooooo moooo mooooo Moooooo Moooo. Mooooo mooooooo, mooo

conscientious scruples, to bear arms against land invaders, yet himself
moooooooooooo mooooooo, mo mooo mooo moooooo mooo mooooooo, moo moooooo

had illimitably invaded the Atlantic and Pacific; and though a sworn foe
moo moooooooooo moooooo moo Mooooooo moo Moooooo; moo mooooo m moooo moo

to human bloodshed, yet had he in his straight-bodied coat, spilled tuns
mo moooo moooooooo, moo moo mo mo moo mooooooo-mooooo mooo, moooooo mooo

upon tuns of leviathan gore. How now in the contemplative evening of his
mooo mooo mo moooooooo mooo. Moo moo mo moo moooooooooooo moooooo mo moo

days, the pious Bildad reconciled these things in the reminiscence, I do
mooo, moo moooo Mooooo mooooooooo moooo mooooo mo moo mooooooooooo, M mo

not know; but it did not seem to concern him much, and very probably
moo mooo; moo mo moo moo mooo mo moooooo moo mooo, moo mooo mooooooo

he had long since come to the sage and sensible conclusion that a man's
mo moo mooo moooo mooo mo moo mooo moo mooooooo mooooooooo mooo m moo'm

religion is one thing, and this practical world quite another. This
mooooooo mo moo moooo, moo mooo moooooooo moooo moooo moooooo. Mooo

world pays dividends. Rising from a little cabin-boy in short clothes
moooo mooo moooooooo. Mooooo mooo m mooooo moooo-moo mo moooo moooooo

of the drabbest drab, to a harpooneer in a broad shad-bellied waistcoat;
mo moo mooooooo mooo, mo m mooooooooo mo m moooo mooo-moooooo moooooooo;

from that becoming boat-header, chief-mate, and captain, and finally a
mooo mooo mooooooo mooo-mooooo, moooo-mooo, moo moooooo, moo moooooo m

ship owner; Bildad, as I hinted before, had concluded his adventurous
mooo moooo; Mooooo, mo M mooooo mooooo, moo moooooooo moo moooooooooo

career by wholly retiring from active life at the goodly age of
mooooo mo mooooo mooooooo mooo mooooo mooo mo moo mooooo moo mo

sixty, and dedicating his remaining days to the quiet receiving of his
moooo, moo mooooooooo moo moooooooo mooo mo moo moooo moooooooo mo moo

well-earned income.
mooo-mooooo mooooo.




Now, Bildad, I am sorry to say, had the reputation of being an
Moo, Mooooo, M mo moooo mo moo, moo moo mooooooooo mo moooo mo

incorrigible old hunks, and in his sea-going days, a bitter, hard
mooooooooooo moo moooo, moo mo moo moo-moooo mooo, m mooooo, mooo

task-master. They told me in Nantucket, though it certainly seems a
mooo-mooooo. Mooo mooo mo mo Moooooooo, mooooo mo moooooooo moooo m

curious story, that when he sailed the old Categut whaleman, his crew,
moooooo moooo, mooo mooo mo mooooo moo moo Moooooo mooooooo, moo mooo,

upon arriving home, were mostly all carried ashore to the hospital, sore
mooo mooooooo mooo, mooo mooooo moo moooooo mooooo mo moo mooooooo, mooo

exhausted and worn out. For a pious man, especially for a Quaker, he was
moooooooo moo mooo moo. Moo m moooo moo, mooooooooo moo m Mooooo, mo moo

certainly rather hard-hearted, to say the least. He never used to swear,
moooooooo mooooo mooo-moooooo, mo moo moo moooo. Mo moooo mooo mo moooo,

though, at his men, they said; but somehow he got an inordinate
mooooo, mo moo moo, mooo mooo; moo moooooo mo moo mo mooooooooo

quantity of cruel, unmitigated hard work out of them. When Bildad was a
mooooooo mo moooo, moooooooooo mooo mooo moo mo mooo. Mooo Mooooo moo m

chief-mate, to have his drab-coloured eye intently looking at you, made
moooo-mooo, mo mooo moo mooo-mooooooo moo mooooooo moooooo mo moo, mooo

you feel completely nervous, till you could clutch something--a hammer
moo mooo mooooooooo moooooo, mooo moo moooo mooooo moooooooo--m mooooo

or a marling-spike, and go to work like mad, at something or other,
mo m moooooo-moooo, moo mo mo mooo mooo moo, mo moooooooo mo moooo,

never mind what. Indolence and idleness perished before him. His own
moooo mooo mooo. Moooooooo moo mooooooo mooooooo mooooo moo. Moo moo

person was the exact embodiment of his utilitarian character. On his
mooooo moo moo moooo mooooooooo mo moo moooooooooo moooooooo. Mo moo

long, gaunt body, he carried no spare flesh, no superfluous beard,
mooo, moooo mooo, mo moooooo mo moooo moooo, mo moooooooooo moooo,

his chin having a soft, economical nap to it, like the worn nap of his
moo mooo mooooo m mooo, mooooooooo moo mo mo, mooo moo mooo moo mo moo

broad-brimmed hat.
moooo-moooooo moo.




Such, then, was the person that I saw seated on the transom when I
Mooo, mooo, moo moo mooooo mooo M moo mooooo mo moo moooooo mooo M

followed Captain Peleg down into the cabin. The space between the decks
mooooooo Moooooo Moooo mooo mooo moo moooo. Moo moooo moooooo moo moooo

was small; and there, bolt-upright, sat old Bildad, who always sat so,
moo moooo; moo moooo, mooo-moooooo, moo moo Mooooo, moo mooooo moo mo,

and never leaned, and this to save his coat tails. His broad-brim was
moo moooo mooooo, moo mooo mo mooo moo mooo moooo. Moo moooo-mooo moo

placed beside him; his legs were stiffly crossed; his drab vesture was
mooooo mooooo moo; moo mooo mooo moooooo moooooo; moo mooo moooooo moo

buttoned up to his chin; and spectacles on nose, he seemed absorbed in
mooooooo mo mo moo mooo; moo mooooooooo mo mooo, mo mooooo mooooooo mo

reading from a ponderous volume.
moooooo mooo m moooooooo mooooo.




"Bildad," cried Captain Peleg, "at it again, Bildad, eh? Ye have been
"Mooooo," moooo Moooooo Moooo, "mo mo moooo, Mooooo, mo? Mo mooo mooo

studying those Scriptures, now, for the last thirty years, to my certain
mooooooo moooo Mooooooooo, moo, moo moo mooo mooooo moooo, mo mo moooooo

knowledge. How far ye got, Bildad?"
moooooooo. Moo moo mo moo, Mooooo?"




As if long habituated to such profane talk from his old shipmate,
Mo mo mooo mooooooooo mo mooo moooooo mooo mooo moo moo mooooooo,

Bildad, without noticing his present irreverence, quietly looked up, and
Mooooo, moooooo mooooooo moo moooooo moooooooooo, moooooo mooooo mo, moo

seeing me, glanced again inquiringly towards Peleg.
mooooo mo, moooooo moooo moooooooooo moooooo Moooo.




"He says he's our man, Bildad," said Peleg, "he wants to ship."
"Mo mooo mo'm moo moo, Mooooo," mooo Moooo, "mo moooo mo mooo."




"Dost thee?" said Bildad, in a hollow tone, and turning round to me.
"Mooo mooo?" mooo Mooooo, mo m mooooo mooo, moo moooooo moooo mo mo.




"I dost," said I unconsciously, he was so intense a Quaker.
"M mooo," mooo M moooooooooooo, mo moo mo moooooo m Mooooo.




"What do ye think of him, Bildad?" said Peleg.
"Mooo mo mo moooo mo moo, Mooooo?" mooo Moooo.




"He'll do," said Bildad, eyeing me, and then went on spelling away at
"Mo'mo mo," mooo Mooooo, mooooo mo, moo mooo mooo mo mooooooo mooo mo

his book in a mumbling tone quite audible.
moo mooo mo m mooooooo mooo moooo moooooo.




I thought him the queerest old Quaker I ever saw, especially as Peleg,
M moooooo moo moo mooooooo moo Mooooo M mooo moo, mooooooooo mo Moooo,

his friend and old shipmate, seemed such a blusterer. But I said
moo mooooo moo moo mooooooo, mooooo mooo m moooooooo. Moo M mooo

nothing, only looking round me sharply. Peleg now threw open a chest,
moooooo, mooo moooooo moooo mo moooooo. Moooo moo moooo mooo m moooo,

and drawing forth the ship's articles, placed pen and ink before him,
moo moooooo moooo moo mooo'm mooooooo, mooooo moo moo moo mooooo moo,

and seated himself at a little table. I began to think it was high time
moo mooooo moooooo mo m mooooo moooo. M moooo mo moooo mo moo mooo mooo

to settle with myself at what terms I would be willing to engage for the
mo mooooo mooo mooooo mo mooo moooo M moooo mo moooooo mo mooooo moo moo

voyage. I was already aware that in the whaling business they paid no
mooooo. M moo moooooo moooo mooo mo moo moooooo mooooooo mooo mooo mo

wages; but all hands, including the captain, received certain shares of
moooo; moo moo moooo, moooooooo moo moooooo, mooooooo moooooo mooooo mo

the profits called lays, and that these lays were proportioned to the
moo moooooo mooooo mooo, moo mooo moooo mooo mooo mooooooooooo mo moo

degree of importance pertaining to the respective duties of the ship's
mooooo mo mooooooooo mooooooooo mo moo mooooooooo mooooo mo moo mooo'm

company. I was also aware that being a green hand at whaling, my own
moooooo. M moo mooo moooo mooo moooo m moooo mooo mo moooooo, mo moo

lay would not be very large; but considering that I was used to the sea,
moo moooo moo mo mooo moooo; moo moooooooooo mooo M moo mooo mo moo moo,

could steer a ship, splice a rope, and all that, I made no doubt that
moooo moooo m mooo, mooooo m mooo, moo moo mooo, M mooo mo moooo mooo

from all I had heard I should be offered at least the 275th lay--that
mooo moo M moo moooo M mooooo mo moooooo mo moooo moo moooo moo--mooo

is, the 275th part of the clear net proceeds of the voyage, whatever
mo, moo moooo mooo mo moo moooo moo mooooooo mo moo mooooo, mooooooo

that might eventually amount to. And though the 275th lay was what they
mooo moooo mooooooooo mooooo mo. Moo mooooo moo moooo moo moo mooo mooo

call a rather LONG LAY, yet it was better than nothing; and if we had a
mooo m mooooo MOOO MOO, moo mo moo mooooo mooo moooooo; moo mo mo moo m

lucky voyage, might pretty nearly pay for the clothing I would wear out
moooo mooooo, moooo mooooo mooooo moo moo moo mooooooo M moooo mooo moo

on it, not to speak of my three years' beef and board, for which I would
mo mo, moo mo moooo mo mo moooo moooo' mooo moo moooo, moo moooo M moooo

not have to pay one stiver.
moo mooo mo moo moo mooooo.




It might be thought that this was a poor way to accumulate a princely
Mo moooo mo moooooo mooo mooo moo m mooo moo mo mooooooooo m mooooooo

fortune--and so it was, a very poor way indeed. But I am one of those
moooooo--moo mo mo moo, m mooo mooo moo mooooo. Moo M mo moo mo moooo

that never take on about princely fortunes, and am quite content if the
mooo moooo mooo mo moooo mooooooo mooooooo, moo mo moooo moooooo mo moo

world is ready to board and lodge me, while I am putting up at this grim
moooo mo moooo mo moooo moo moooo mo, moooo M mo moooooo mo mo mooo mooo

sign of the Thunder Cloud. Upon the whole, I thought that the 275th lay
mooo mo moo Moooooo Moooo. Mooo moo moooo, M moooooo mooo moo moooo moo

would be about the fair thing, but would not have been surprised had I
moooo mo moooo moo mooo moooo, moo moooo moo mooo mooo moooooooo moo M

been offered the 200th, considering I was of a broad-shouldered make.
mooo moooooo moo moooo, moooooooooo M moo mo m moooo-mooooooooo mooo.




But one thing, nevertheless, that made me a little distrustful about
Moo moo moooo, mooooooooooo, mooo mooo mo m mooooo moooooooooo moooo

receiving a generous share of the profits was this: Ashore, I had heard
moooooooo m mooooooo moooo mo moo moooooo moo mooo: Mooooo, M moo moooo

something of both Captain Peleg and his unaccountable old crony Bildad;
moooooooo mo mooo Moooooo Moooo moo moo moooooooooooo moo moooo Mooooo;

how that they being the principal proprietors of the Pequod, therefore
moo mooo mooo moooo moo moooooooo moooooooooo mo moo Mooooo, moooooooo

the other and more inconsiderable and scattered owners, left nearly the
moo moooo moo mooo mooooooooooooo moo moooooooo mooooo, mooo mooooo moo

whole management of the ship's affairs to these two. And I did not know
moooo mooooooooo mo moo mooo'm moooooo mo moooo moo. Moo M moo moo mooo

but what the stingy old Bildad might have a mighty deal to say about
moo mooo moo mooooo moo Mooooo moooo mooo m mooooo mooo mo moo moooo

shipping hands, especially as I now found him on board the Pequod,
mooooooo moooo, mooooooooo mo M moo moooo moo mo moooo moo Mooooo,

quite at home there in the cabin, and reading his Bible as if at his
moooo mo mooo moooo mo moo moooo, moo moooooo moo Moooo mo mo mo moo

own fireside. Now while Peleg was vainly trying to mend a pen with his
moo mooooooo. Moo moooo Moooo moo mooooo mooooo mo mooo m moo mooo moo

jack-knife, old Bildad, to my no small surprise, considering that he was
mooo-moooo, moo Mooooo, mo mo mo moooo mooooooo, moooooooooo mooo mo moo

such an interested party in these proceedings; Bildad never heeded
mooo mo mooooooooo moooo mo moooo moooooooooo; Mooooo moooo mooooo

us, but went on mumbling to himself out of his book, "LAY not up for
mo, moo mooo mo mooooooo mo moooooo moo mo moo mooo, "MOO moo mo moo

yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth--"
mooooooooo moooooooo mooo moooo, moooo mooo--"




"Well, Captain Bildad," interrupted Peleg, "what d'ye say, what lay
"Mooo, Moooooo Mooooo," moooooooooo Moooo, "mooo m'mo moo, mooo moo

shall we give this young man?"
moooo mo mooo mooo moooo moo?"




"Thou knowest best," was the sepulchral reply, "the seven hundred and
"Mooo moooooo mooo," moo moo mooooooooo moooo, "moo moooo moooooo moo

seventy-seventh wouldn't be too much, would it?--'where moth and rust do
moooooo-moooooo mooooo'm mo moo mooo, moooo mo?--'moooo mooo moo mooo mo

corrupt, but LAY--'"
moooooo, moo MOO--'"




LAY, indeed, thought I, and such a lay! the seven hundred and
MOO, mooooo, moooooo M, moo mooo m moo! moo moooo moooooo moo

seventy-seventh! Well, old Bildad, you are determined that I, for one,
moooooo-moooooo! Mooo, moo Mooooo, moo moo mooooooooo mooo M, moo moo,

shall not LAY up many LAYS here below, where moth and rust do corrupt.
moooo moo MOO mo mooo MOOO mooo moooo, moooo mooo moo mooo mo moooooo.

It was an exceedingly LONG LAY that, indeed; and though from the
Mo moo mo moooooooooo MOOO MOO mooo, mooooo; moo mooooo mooo moo

magnitude of the figure it might at first deceive a landsman, yet
moooooooo mo moo mooooo mo moooo mo moooo moooooo m mooooooo, moo

the slightest consideration will show that though seven hundred and
moo moooooooo moooooooooooo mooo mooo mooo mooooo moooo moooooo moo

seventy-seven is a pretty large number, yet, when you come to make
moooooo-moooo mo m mooooo moooo mooooo, moo, mooo moo mooo mo mooo

a TEENTH of it, you will then see, I say, that the seven hundred and
m MOOOOO mo mo, moo mooo mooo moo, M moo, mooo moo moooo moooooo moo

seventy-seventh part of a farthing is a good deal less than seven
moooooo-moooooo mooo mo m mooooooo mo m mooo mooo mooo mooo moooo

hundred and seventy-seven gold doubloons; and so I thought at the time.
moooooo moo moooooo-moooo mooo moooooooo; moo mo M moooooo mo moo mooo.




"Why, blast your eyes, Bildad," cried Peleg, "thou dost not want to
"Moo, moooo mooo mooo, Mooooo," moooo Moooo, "mooo mooo moo mooo mo

swindle this young man! he must have more than that."
moooooo mooo moooo moo! mo mooo mooo mooo mooo mooo."




"Seven hundred and seventy-seventh," again said Bildad, without lifting
"Moooo moooooo moo moooooo-moooooo," moooo mooo Mooooo, moooooo moooooo

his eyes; and then went on mumbling--"for where your treasure is, there
moo mooo; moo mooo mooo mo mooooooo--"moo moooo mooo mooooooo mo, moooo

will your heart be also."
mooo mooo moooo mo mooo."




"I am going to put him down for the three hundredth," said Peleg, "do ye
"M mo moooo mo moo moo mooo moo moo moooo moooooooo," mooo Moooo, "mo mo

hear that, Bildad! The three hundredth lay, I say."
mooo mooo, Mooooo! Moo moooo moooooooo moo, M moo."




Bildad laid down his book, and turning solemnly towards him said,
Mooooo mooo mooo moo mooo, moo moooooo mooooooo moooooo moo mooo,

"Captain Peleg, thou hast a generous heart; but thou must consider the
"Moooooo Moooo, mooo mooo m mooooooo moooo; moo mooo mooo mooooooo moo

duty thou owest to the other owners of this ship--widows and orphans,
mooo mooo moooo mo moo moooo mooooo mo mooo mooo--mooooo moo moooooo,

many of them--and that if we too abundantly reward the labors of this
mooo mo mooo--moo mooo mo mo moo mooooooooo mooooo moo mooooo mo mooo

young man, we may be taking the bread from those widows and those
moooo moo, mo moo mo mooooo moo moooo mooo moooo mooooo moo moooo

orphans. The seven hundred and seventy-seventh lay, Captain Peleg."
moooooo. Moo moooo moooooo moo moooooo-moooooo moo, Moooooo Moooo."




"Thou Bildad!" roared Peleg, starting up and clattering about the
"Mooo Mooooo!" mooooo Moooo, mooooooo mo moo mooooooooo moooo moo

cabin. "Blast ye, Captain Bildad, if I had followed thy advice in these
moooo. "Moooo mo, Moooooo Mooooo, mo M moo mooooooo moo mooooo mo moooo

matters, I would afore now had a conscience to lug about that would be
moooooo, M moooo moooo moo moo m mooooooooo mo moo moooo mooo moooo mo

heavy enough to founder the largest ship that ever sailed round Cape
moooo mooooo mo moooooo moo moooooo mooo mooo mooo mooooo moooo Mooo

Horn."
Mooo."




"Captain Peleg," said Bildad steadily, "thy conscience may be drawing
"Moooooo Moooo," mooo Mooooo mooooooo, "moo mooooooooo moo mo moooooo

ten inches of water, or ten fathoms, I can't tell; but as thou art still
moo mooooo mo moooo, mo moo moooooo, M moo'm mooo; moo mo mooo moo moooo

an impenitent man, Captain Peleg, I greatly fear lest thy conscience be
mo mooooooooo moo, Moooooo Moooo, M moooooo mooo mooo moo mooooooooo mo

but a leaky one; and will in the end sink thee foundering down to the
moo m moooo moo; moo mooo mo moo moo mooo mooo mooooooooo mooo mo moo

fiery pit, Captain Peleg."
moooo moo, Moooooo Moooo."




"Fiery pit! fiery pit! ye insult me, man; past all natural bearing, ye
"Moooo moo! moooo moo! mo mooooo mo, moo; mooo moo moooooo moooooo, mo

insult me. It's an all-fired outrage to tell any human creature that
mooooo mo. Mo'm mo moo-moooo moooooo mo mooo moo moooo mooooooo mooo

he's bound to hell. Flukes and flames! Bildad, say that again to me, and
mo'm moooo mo mooo. Mooooo moo mooooo! Mooooo, moo mooo moooo mo mo, moo

start my soul-bolts, but I'll--I'll--yes, I'll swallow a live goat with
moooo mo mooo-moooo, moo M'mo--M'mo--moo, M'mo moooooo m mooo mooo mooo

all his hair and horns on. Out of the cabin, ye canting, drab-coloured
moo moo mooo moo moooo mo. Moo mo moo moooo, mo moooooo, mooo-mooooooo

son of a wooden gun--a straight wake with ye!"
moo mo m mooooo moo--m mooooooo mooo mooo mo!"




As he thundered out this he made a rush at Bildad, but with a marvellous
Mo mo moooooooo moo mooo mo mooo m mooo mo Mooooo, moo mooo m mooooooooo

oblique, sliding celerity, Bildad for that time eluded him.
moooooo, moooooo mooooooo, Mooooo moo mooo mooo mooooo moo.




Alarmed at this terrible outburst between the two principal and
Moooooo mo mooo mooooooo mooooooo moooooo moo moo moooooooo moo

responsible owners of the ship, and feeling half a mind to give up
moooooooooo mooooo mo moo mooo, moo moooooo mooo m mooo mo mooo mo

all idea of sailing in a vessel so questionably owned and temporarily
moo mooo mo moooooo mo m mooooo mo mooooooooooo moooo moo moooooooooo

commanded, I stepped aside from the door to give egress to Bildad, who,
moooooooo, M moooooo moooo mooo moo mooo mo mooo mooooo mo Mooooo, moo,

I made no doubt, was all eagerness to vanish from before the awakened
M mooo mo moooo, moo moo moooooooo mo mooooo mooo mooooo moo mooooooo

wrath of Peleg. But to my astonishment, he sat down again on the
moooo mo Moooo. Moo mo mo mooooooooooo, mo moo mooo moooo mo moo

transom very quietly, and seemed to have not the slightest intention of
moooooo mooo moooooo, moo mooooo mo mooo moo moo moooooooo moooooooo mo

withdrawing. He seemed quite used to impenitent Peleg and his ways. As
moooooooooo. Mo mooooo moooo mooo mo mooooooooo Moooo moo moo mooo. Mo

for Peleg, after letting off his rage as he had, there seemed no more
moo Moooo, moooo moooooo moo moo mooo mo mo moo, moooo mooooo mo mooo

left in him, and he, too, sat down like a lamb, though he twitched a
mooo mo moo, moo mo, moo, moo mooo mooo m mooo, mooooo mo mooooooo m

little as if still nervously agitated. "Whew!" he whistled at last--"the
mooooo mo mo moooo moooooooo mooooooo. "Mooo!" mo mooooooo mo mooo--"moo

squall's gone off to leeward, I think. Bildad, thou used to be good at
mooooo'm mooo moo mo moooooo, M moooo. Mooooo, mooo mooo mo mo mooo mo

sharpening a lance, mend that pen, will ye. My jack-knife here needs
mooooooooo m moooo, mooo mooo moo, mooo mo. Mo mooo-moooo mooo moooo

the grindstone. That's he; thank ye, Bildad. Now then, my young man,
moo mooooooooo. Mooo'm mo; moooo mo, Mooooo. Moo mooo, mo moooo moo,

Ishmael's thy name, didn't ye say? Well then, down ye go here, Ishmael,
Moooooo'm moo mooo, mooo'm mo moo? Mooo mooo, mooo mo mo mooo, Moooooo,

for the three hundredth lay."
moo moo moooo moooooooo moo."




"Captain Peleg," said I, "I have a friend with me who wants to ship
"Moooooo Moooo," mooo M, "M mooo m mooooo mooo mo moo moooo mo mooo

too--shall I bring him down to-morrow?"
moo--moooo M moooo moo mooo mo-mooooo?"




"To be sure," said Peleg. "Fetch him along, and we'll look at him."
"Mo mo mooo," mooo Moooo. "Moooo moo moooo, moo mo'mo mooo mo moo."




"What lay does he want?" groaned Bildad, glancing up from the book in
"Mooo moo mooo mo mooo?" moooooo Mooooo, mooooooo mo mooo moo mooo mo

which he had again been burying himself.
moooo mo moo moooo mooo moooooo moooooo.




"Oh! never thee mind about that, Bildad," said Peleg. "Has he ever
"Mo! moooo mooo mooo moooo mooo, Mooooo," mooo Moooo. "Moo mo mooo

whaled it any?" turning to me.
mooooo mo moo?" moooooo mo mo.




"Killed more whales than I can count, Captain Peleg."
"Mooooo mooo mooooo mooo M moo moooo, Moooooo Moooo."




"Well, bring him along then."
"Mooo, moooo moo moooo mooo."




And, after signing the papers, off I went; nothing doubting but that I
Moo, moooo moooooo moo mooooo, moo M mooo; moooooo mooooooo moo mooo M

had done a good morning's work, and that the Pequod was the identical
moo mooo m mooo moooooo'm mooo, moo mooo moo Mooooo moo moo moooooooo

ship that Yojo had provided to carry Queequeg and me round the Cape.
mooo mooo Mooo moo mooooooo mo moooo Mooooooo moo mo moooo moo Mooo.




But I had not proceeded far, when I began to bethink me that the Captain
Moo M moo moo moooooooo moo, mooo M moooo mo moooooo mo mooo moo Moooooo

with whom I was to sail yet remained unseen by me; though, indeed, in
mooo mooo M moo mo mooo moo mooooooo mooooo mo mo; mooooo, mooooo, mo

many cases, a whale-ship will be completely fitted out, and receive all
mooo moooo, m moooo-mooo mooo mo mooooooooo mooooo moo, moo moooooo moo

her crew on board, ere the captain makes himself visible by arriving
moo mooo mo moooo, moo moo moooooo moooo moooooo moooooo mo mooooooo

to take command; for sometimes these voyages are so prolonged, and the
mo mooo moooooo; moo moooooooo moooo moooooo moo mo moooooooo, moo moo

shore intervals at home so exceedingly brief, that if the captain have
moooo moooooooo mo mooo mo moooooooooo moooo, mooo mo moo moooooo mooo

a family, or any absorbing concernment of that sort, he does not trouble
m mooooo, mo moo moooooooo moooooooooo mo mooo mooo, mo mooo moo moooooo

himself much about his ship in port, but leaves her to the owners till
moooooo mooo moooo moo mooo mo mooo, moo mooooo moo mo moo mooooo mooo

all is ready for sea. However, it is always as well to have a look at
moo mo moooo moo moo. Moooooo, mo mo mooooo mo mooo mo mooo m mooo mo

him before irrevocably committing yourself into his hands. Turning back
moo mooooo moooooooooo mooooooooo mooooooo mooo moo moooo. Moooooo mooo

I accosted Captain Peleg, inquiring where Captain Ahab was to be found.
M mooooooo Moooooo Moooo, moooooooo moooo Moooooo Mooo moo mo mo moooo.




"And what dost thou want of Captain Ahab? It's all right enough; thou
"Moo mooo mooo mooo mooo mo Moooooo Mooo? Mo'm moo moooo mooooo; mooo

art shipped."
moo moooooo."




"Yes, but I should like to see him."
"Moo, moo M mooooo mooo mo moo moo."




"But I don't think thou wilt be able to at present. I don't know exactly
"Moo M moo'm moooo mooo mooo mo mooo mo mo moooooo. M moo'm mooo moooooo

what's the matter with him; but he keeps close inside the house; a sort
mooo'm moo mooooo mooo moo; moo mo moooo moooo mooooo moo moooo; m mooo

of sick, and yet he don't look so. In fact, he ain't sick; but no, he
mo mooo, moo moo mo moo'm mooo mo. Mo mooo, mo moo'm mooo; moo mo, mo

isn't well either. Any how, young man, he won't always see me, so I
moo'm mooo mooooo. Moo moo, moooo moo, mo moo'm mooooo moo mo, mo M

don't suppose he will thee. He's a queer man, Captain Ahab--so some
moo'm moooooo mo mooo mooo. Mo'm m moooo moo, Moooooo Mooo--mo mooo

think--but a good one. Oh, thou'lt like him well enough; no fear, no
moooo--moo m mooo moo. Mo, mooo'mo mooo moo mooo mooooo; mo mooo, mo

fear. He's a grand, ungodly, god-like man, Captain Ahab; doesn't speak
mooo. Mo'm m moooo, moooooo, moo-mooo moo, Moooooo Mooo; moooo'm moooo

much; but, when he does speak, then you may well listen. Mark ye, be
mooo; moo, mooo mo mooo moooo, mooo moo moo mooo mooooo. Mooo mo, mo

forewarned; Ahab's above the common; Ahab's been in colleges, as well as
mooooooooo; Mooo'm moooo moo mooooo; Mooo'm mooo mo mooooooo, mo mooo mo

'mong the cannibals; been used to deeper wonders than the waves; fixed
'mooo moo moooooooo; mooo mooo mo mooooo moooooo mooo moo moooo; moooo

his fiery lance in mightier, stranger foes than whales. His lance!
moo moooo moooo mo mooooooo, mooooooo mooo mooo mooooo. Moo moooo!

aye, the keenest and the surest that out of all our isle! Oh! he ain't
moo, moo moooooo moo moo mooooo mooo moo mo moo moo mooo! Mo! mo moo'm

Captain Bildad; no, and he ain't Captain Peleg; HE'S AHAB, boy; and Ahab
Moooooo Mooooo; mo, moo mo moo'm Moooooo Moooo; MO'M MOOO, moo; moo Mooo

of old, thou knowest, was a crowned king!"
mo moo, mooo moooooo, moo m moooooo mooo!"




"And a very vile one. When that wicked king was slain, the dogs, did
"Moo m mooo mooo moo. Mooo mooo mooooo mooo moo moooo, moo mooo, moo

they not lick his blood?"
mooo moo mooo moo moooo?"




"Come hither to me--hither, hither," said Peleg, with a significance in
"Mooo mooooo mo mo--mooooo, mooooo," mooo Moooo, mooo m mooooooooooo mo

his eye that almost startled me. "Look ye, lad; never say that on board
moo moo mooo mooooo mooooooo mo. "Mooo mo, moo; moooo moo mooo mo moooo

the Pequod. Never say it anywhere. Captain Ahab did not name himself.
moo Mooooo. Moooo moo mo mooooooo. Moooooo Mooo moo moo mooo moooooo.

'Twas a foolish, ignorant whim of his crazy, widowed mother, who died
'Mooo m moooooo, mooooooo mooo mo moo moooo, moooooo mooooo, moo mooo

when he was only a twelvemonth old. And yet the old squaw Tistig, at
mooo mo moo mooo m moooooooooo moo. Moo moo moo moo moooo Mooooo, mo

Gayhead, said that the name would somehow prove prophetic. And, perhaps,
Moooooo, mooo mooo moo mooo moooo moooooo moooo moooooooo. Moo, moooooo,

other fools like her may tell thee the same. I wish to warn thee. It's a
moooo moooo mooo moo moo mooo mooo moo mooo. M mooo mo mooo mooo. Mo'm m

lie. I know Captain Ahab well; I've sailed with him as mate years ago;
moo. M mooo Moooooo Mooo mooo; M'mo mooooo mooo moo mo mooo moooo moo;

I know what he is--a good man--not a pious, good man, like Bildad, but
M mooo mooo mo mo--m mooo moo--moo m moooo, mooo moo, mooo Mooooo, moo

a swearing good man--something like me--only there's a good deal more of
m mooooooo mooo moo--moooooooo mooo mo--mooo moooo'm m mooo mooo mooo mo

him. Aye, aye, I know that he was never very jolly; and I know that on
moo. Moo, moo, M mooo mooo mo moo moooo mooo moooo; moo M mooo mooo mo

the passage home, he was a little out of his mind for a spell; but it
moo moooooo mooo, mo moo m mooooo moo mo moo mooo moo m moooo; moo mo

was the sharp shooting pains in his bleeding stump that brought that
moo moo moooo mooooooo moooo mo moo mooooooo moooo mooo moooooo mooo

about, as any one might see. I know, too, that ever since he lost
moooo, mo moo moo moooo moo. M mooo, moo, mooo mooo moooo mo mooo

his leg last voyage by that accursed whale, he's been a kind of
moo moo mooo mooooo mo mooo mooooooo moooo, mo'm mooo m mooo mo

moody--desperate moody, and savage sometimes; but that will all pass
moooo--moooooooo moooo, moo mooooo moooooooo; moo mooo mooo moo mooo

off. And once for all, let me tell thee and assure thee, young man, it's
moo. Moo mooo moo moo, moo mo mooo mooo moo mooooo mooo, moooo moo, mo'm

better to sail with a moody good captain than a laughing bad one. So
mooooo mo mooo mooo m moooo mooo moooooo mooo m mooooooo moo moo. Mo

good-bye to thee--and wrong not Captain Ahab, because he happens to
mooo-moo mo mooo--moo moooo moo Moooooo Mooo, moooooo mo moooooo mo

have a wicked name. Besides, my boy, he has a wife--not three voyages
mooo m mooooo mooo. Moooooo, mo moo, mo moo m mooo--moo moooo moooooo

wedded--a sweet, resigned girl. Think of that; by that sweet girl that
mooooo--m moooo, mooooooo mooo. Moooo mo mooo; mo mooo moooo mooo mooo

old man has a child: hold ye then there can be any utter, hopeless
moo moo moo m moooo: mooo mo mooo moooo moo mo moo moooo, mooooooo

harm in Ahab? No, no, my lad; stricken, blasted, if he be, Ahab has his
mooo mo Mooo? Mo, mo, mo moo; mooooooo, moooooo, mo mo mo, Mooo moo moo

humanities!"
mooooooooo!"




As I walked away, I was full of thoughtfulness; what had been
Mo M mooooo mooo, M moo mooo mo mooooooooooooo; mooo moo mooo

incidentally revealed to me of Captain Ahab, filled me with a certain
mooooooooooo mooooooo mo mo mo Moooooo Mooo, mooooo mo mooo m moooooo

wild vagueness of painfulness concerning him. And somehow, at the time,
mooo moooooooo mo moooooooooo mooooooooo moo. Moo moooooo, mo moo mooo,

I felt a sympathy and a sorrow for him, but for I don't know what,
M mooo m mooooooo moo m mooooo moo moo, moo moo M moo'm mooo mooo,

unless it was the cruel loss of his leg. And yet I also felt a strange
mooooo mo moo moo moooo mooo mo moo moo. Moo moo M mooo mooo m moooooo

awe of him; but that sort of awe, which I cannot at all describe, was
moo mo moo; moo mooo mooo mo moo, moooo M mooooo mo moo mooooooo, moo

not exactly awe; I do not know what it was. But I felt it; and it did
moo moooooo moo; M mo moo mooo mooo mo moo. Moo M mooo mo; moo mo moo

not disincline me towards him; though I felt impatience at what seemed
moo mooooooooo mo moooooo moo; mooooo M mooo mooooooooo mo mooo mooooo

like mystery in him, so imperfectly as he was known to me then. However,
mooo moooooo mo moo, mo moooooooooo mo mo moo moooo mo mo mooo. Moooooo,

my thoughts were at length carried in other directions, so that for the
mo mooooooo mooo mo mooooo moooooo mo moooo mooooooooo, mo mooo moo moo

present dark Ahab slipped my mind.
moooooo mooo Mooo moooooo mo mooo.










CHAPTER 17. The Ramadan.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Moooooo.







As Queequeg's Ramadan, or Fasting and Humiliation, was to continue all
Mo Mooooooo'm Moooooo, mo Moooooo moo Moooooooooo, moo mo mooooooo moo

day, I did not choose to disturb him till towards night-fall; for I
moo, M moo moo mooooo mo moooooo moo mooo moooooo moooo-mooo; moo M

cherish the greatest respect towards everybody's religious obligations,
moooooo moo mooooooo moooooo moooooo moooooooo'm moooooooo moooooooooo,

never mind how comical, and could not find it in my heart to undervalue
moooo mooo moo moooooo, moo moooo moo mooo mo mo mo moooo mo mooooooooo

even a congregation of ants worshipping a toad-stool; or those other
mooo m mooooooooooo mo mooo moooooooooo m mooo-moooo; mo moooo moooo

creatures in certain parts of our earth, who with a degree of footmanism
moooooooo mo moooooo moooo mo moo moooo, moo mooo m mooooo mo mooooooooo

quite unprecedented in other planets, bow down before the torso of
moooo moooooooooooo mo moooo moooooo, moo mooo mooooo moo moooo mo

a deceased landed proprietor merely on account of the inordinate
m mooooooo mooooo mooooooooo mooooo mo moooooo mo moo mooooooooo

possessions yet owned and rented in his name.
moooooooooo moo moooo moo mooooo mo moo mooo.




I say, we good Presbyterian Christians should be charitable in these
M moo, mo mooo Mooooooooooo Mooooooooo mooooo mo mooooooooo mo moooo

things, and not fancy ourselves so vastly superior to other mortals,
mooooo, moo moo moooo moooooooo mo mooooo mooooooo mo moooo moooooo,

pagans and what not, because of their half-crazy conceits on these
mooooo moo mooo moo, moooooo mo moooo mooo-moooo mooooooo mo moooo

subjects. There was Queequeg, now, certainly entertaining the most
mooooooo. Moooo moo Mooooooo, moo, moooooooo mooooooooooo moo mooo

absurd notions about Yojo and his Ramadan;--but what of that? Queequeg
mooooo moooooo moooo Mooo moo moo Moooooo;--moo mooo mo mooo? Mooooooo

thought he knew what he was about, I suppose; he seemed to be content;
moooooo mo mooo mooo mo moo moooo, M moooooo; mo mooooo mo mo moooooo;

and there let him rest. All our arguing with him would not avail; let
moo moooo moo moo mooo. Moo moo moooooo mooo moo moooo moo moooo; moo

him be, I say: and Heaven have mercy on us all--Presbyterians and Pagans
moo mo, M moo: moo Mooooo mooo moooo mo mo moo--Moooooooooooo moo Mooooo

alike--for we are all somehow dreadfully cracked about the head, and
moooo--moo mo moo moo moooooo mooooooooo moooooo moooo moo mooo, moo

sadly need mending.
moooo mooo moooooo.




Towards evening, when I felt assured that all his performances and
Moooooo moooooo, mooo M mooo moooooo mooo moo moo mooooooooooo moo

rituals must be over, I went up to his room and knocked at the door; but
moooooo mooo mo mooo, M mooo mo mo moo mooo moo moooooo mo moo mooo; moo

no answer. I tried to open it, but it was fastened inside. "Queequeg,"
mo mooooo. M moooo mo mooo mo, moo mo moo mooooooo mooooo. "Mooooooo,"

said I softly through the key-hole:--all silent. "I say, Queequeg! why
mooo M mooooo moooooo moo moo-mooo:--moo mooooo. "M moo, Mooooooo! moo

don't you speak? It's I--Ishmael." But all remained still as before. I
moo'm moo moooo? Mo'm M--Moooooo." Moo moo mooooooo moooo mo mooooo. M

began to grow alarmed. I had allowed him such abundant time; I thought
moooo mo mooo moooooo. M moo moooooo moo mooo mooooooo mooo; M moooooo

he might have had an apoplectic fit. I looked through the key-hole; but
mo moooo mooo moo mo mooooooooo moo. M mooooo moooooo moo moo-mooo; moo

the door opening into an odd corner of the room, the key-hole prospect
moo mooo moooooo mooo mo moo mooooo mo moo mooo, moo moo-mooo mooooooo

was but a crooked and sinister one. I could only see part of the
moo moo m moooooo moo mooooooo moo. M moooo mooo moo mooo mo moo

foot-board of the bed and a line of the wall, but nothing more. I
mooo-moooo mo moo moo moo m mooo mo moo mooo, moo moooooo mooo. M

was surprised to behold resting against the wall the wooden shaft of
moo moooooooo mo mooooo moooooo moooooo moo mooo moo mooooo moooo mo

Queequeg's harpoon, which the landlady the evening previous had taken
Mooooooo'm moooooo, moooo moo mooooooo moo moooooo mooooooo moo moooo

from him, before our mounting to the chamber. That's strange, thought I;
mooo moo, mooooo moo mooooooo mo moo moooooo. Mooo'm moooooo, moooooo M;

but at any rate, since the harpoon stands yonder, and he seldom or
moo mo moo mooo, moooo moo moooooo mooooo mooooo, moo mo mooooo mo

never goes abroad without it, therefore he must be inside here, and no
moooo mooo mooooo moooooo mo, moooooooo mo mooo mo mooooo mooo, moo mo

possible mistake.
mooooooo moooooo.




"Queequeg!--Queequeg!"--all still. Something must have happened.
"Mooooooo!--Mooooooo!"--moo moooo. Moooooooo mooo mooo mooooooo.

Apoplexy! I tried to burst open the door; but it stubbornly resisted.
Mooooooo! M moooo mo moooo mooo moo mooo; moo mo mooooooooo mooooooo.

Running down stairs, I quickly stated my suspicions to the first person
Moooooo mooo mooooo, M moooooo mooooo mo mooooooooo mo moo moooo mooooo

I met--the chamber-maid. "La! la!" she cried, "I thought something must
M moo--moo moooooo-mooo. "Mo! mo!" moo moooo, "M moooooo moooooooo mooo

be the matter. I went to make the bed after breakfast, and the door was
mo moo mooooo. M mooo mo mooo moo moo moooo moooooooo, moo moo mooo moo

locked; and not a mouse to be heard; and it's been just so silent ever
mooooo; moo moo m moooo mo mo moooo; moo mo'm mooo mooo mo mooooo mooo

since. But I thought, may be, you had both gone off and locked your
moooo. Moo M moooooo, moo mo, moo moo mooo mooo moo moo mooooo mooo

baggage in for safe keeping. La! la, ma'am!--Mistress! murder! Mrs.
moooooo mo moo mooo moooooo. Mo! mo, mo'mo!--Mooooooo! mooooo! Moo.

Hussey! apoplexy!"--and with these cries, she ran towards the kitchen, I
Mooooo! mooooooo!"--moo mooo moooo moooo, moo moo moooooo moo moooooo, M

following.
moooooooo.




Mrs. Hussey soon appeared, with a mustard-pot in one hand and a
Moo. Mooooo mooo mooooooo, mooo m moooooo-moo mo moo mooo moo m

vinegar-cruet in the other, having just broken away from the occupation
moooooo-moooo mo moo moooo, mooooo mooo mooooo mooo mooo moo mooooooooo

of attending to the castors, and scolding her little black boy meantime.
mo moooooooo mo moo moooooo, moo mooooooo moo mooooo moooo moo mooooooo.




"Wood-house!" cried I, "which way to it? Run for God's sake, and fetch
"Mooo-moooo!" moooo M, "moooo moo mo mo? Moo moo Moo'm mooo, moo moooo

something to pry open the door--the axe!--the axe! he's had a stroke;
moooooooo mo moo mooo moo mooo--moo moo!--moo moo! mo'm moo m mooooo;

depend upon it!"--and so saying I was unmethodically rushing up stairs
mooooo mooo mo!"--moo mo mooooo M moo mooooooooooooo moooooo mo mooooo

again empty-handed, when Mrs. Hussey interposed the mustard-pot and
moooo moooo-mooooo, mooo Moo. Mooooo mooooooooo moo moooooo-moo moo

vinegar-cruet, and the entire castor of her countenance.
moooooo-moooo, moo moo mooooo mooooo mo moo moooooooooo.




"What's the matter with you, young man?"
"Mooo'm moo mooooo mooo moo, moooo moo?"




"Get the axe! For God's sake, run for the doctor, some one, while I pry
"Moo moo moo! Moo Moo'm mooo, moo moo moo mooooo, mooo moo, moooo M moo

it open!"
mo mooo!"




"Look here," said the landlady, quickly putting down the vinegar-cruet,
"Mooo mooo," mooo moo mooooooo, moooooo moooooo mooo moo moooooo-moooo,

so as to have one hand free; "look here; are you talking about prying
mo mo mo mooo moo mooo mooo; "mooo mooo; moo moo moooooo moooo mooooo

open any of my doors?"--and with that she seized my arm. "What's the
mooo moo mo mo moooo?"--moo mooo mooo moo mooooo mo moo. "Mooo'm moo

matter with you? What's the matter with you, shipmate?"
mooooo mooo moo? Mooo'm moo mooooo mooo moo, mooooooo?"




In as calm, but rapid a manner as possible, I gave her to understand the
Mo mo mooo, moo moooo m mooooo mo mooooooo, M mooo moo mo mooooooooo moo

whole case. Unconsciously clapping the vinegar-cruet to one side of her
moooo mooo. Moooooooooooo mooooooo moo moooooo-moooo mo moo mooo mo moo

nose, she ruminated for an instant; then exclaimed--"No! I haven't seen
mooo, moo moooooooo moo mo moooooo; mooo moooooooo--"Mo! M moooo'm mooo

it since I put it there." Running to a little closet under the landing
mo moooo M moo mo moooo." Moooooo mo m mooooo mooooo moooo moo moooooo

of the stairs, she glanced in, and returning, told me that Queequeg's
mo moo mooooo, moo moooooo mo, moo moooooooo, mooo mo mooo Mooooooo'm

harpoon was missing. "He's killed himself," she cried. "It's unfort'nate
moooooo moo moooooo. "Mo'm mooooo moooooo," moo moooo. "Mo'm mooooo'mooo

Stiggs done over again there goes another counterpane--God pity his poor
Mooooo mooo mooo moooo moooo mooo moooooo moooooooooo--Moo mooo moo mooo

mother!--it will be the ruin of my house. Has the poor lad a sister?
mooooo!--mo mooo mo moo mooo mo mo moooo. Moo moo mooo moo m mooooo?

Where's that girl?--there, Betty, go to Snarles the Painter, and tell
Moooo'm mooo mooo?--moooo, Moooo, mo mo Moooooo moo Moooooo, moo mooo

him to paint me a sign, with--"no suicides permitted here, and no
moo mo moooo mo m mooo, mooo--"mo mooooooo moooooooo mooo, moo mo

smoking in the parlor;"--might as well kill both birds at once. Kill?
moooooo mo moo mooooo;"--moooo mo mooo mooo mooo moooo mo mooo. Mooo?

The Lord be merciful to his ghost! What's that noise there? You, young
Moo Mooo mo mooooooo mo moo moooo! Mooo'm mooo moooo moooo? Moo, moooo

man, avast there!"
moo, moooo moooo!"




And running up after me, she caught me as I was again trying to force
Moo moooooo mo moooo mo, moo mooooo mo mo M moo moooo mooooo mo moooo

open the door.
mooo moo mooo.




"I don't allow it; I won't have my premises spoiled. Go for the
"M moo'm moooo mo; M moo'm mooo mo mooooooo moooooo. Mo moo moo

locksmith, there's one about a mile from here. But avast!" putting her
moooooooo, moooo'm moo moooo m mooo mooo mooo. Moo moooo!" moooooo moo

hand in her side-pocket, "here's a key that'll fit, I guess; let's
mooo mo moo mooo-mooooo, "mooo'm m moo mooo'mo moo, M moooo; moo'm

see." And with that, she turned it in the lock; but, alas! Queequeg's
moo." Moo mooo mooo, moo mooooo mo mo moo mooo; moo, mooo! Mooooooo'm

supplemental bolt remained unwithdrawn within.
mooooooooooo mooo mooooooo moooooooooo mooooo.




"Have to burst it open," said I, and was running down the entry a
"Mooo mo moooo mo mooo," mooo M, moo moo moooooo mooo moo moooo m

little, for a good start, when the landlady caught at me, again vowing
mooooo, moo m mooo moooo, mooo moo mooooooo mooooo mo mo, moooo mooooo

I should not break down her premises; but I tore from her, and with a
M mooooo moo moooo mooo moo mooooooo; moo M mooo mooo moo, moo mooo m

sudden bodily rush dashed myself full against the mark.
mooooo mooooo mooo mooooo mooooo mooo moooooo moo mooo.




With a prodigious noise the door flew open, and the knob slamming
Mooo m mooooooooo moooo moo mooo mooo mooo, moo moo mooo mooooooo

against the wall, sent the plaster to the ceiling; and there, good
moooooo moo mooo, mooo moo moooooo mo moo moooooo; moo moooo, mooo

heavens! there sat Queequeg, altogether cool and self-collected; right
moooooo! moooo moo Mooooooo, mooooooooo mooo moo mooo-moooooooo; moooo

in the middle of the room; squatting on his hams, and holding Yojo on
mo moo mooooo mo moo mooo; moooooooo mo moo mooo, moo moooooo Mooo mo

top of his head. He looked neither one way nor the other way, but sat
moo mo moo mooo. Mo mooooo moooooo moo moo moo moo moooo moo, moo moo

like a carved image with scarce a sign of active life.
mooo m mooooo moooo mooo mooooo m mooo mo mooooo mooo.




"Queequeg," said I, going up to him, "Queequeg, what's the matter with
"Mooooooo," mooo M, moooo mo mo moo, "Mooooooo, mooo'm moo mooooo mooo

you?"
moo?"




"He hain't been a sittin' so all day, has he?" said the landlady.
"Mo mooo'm mooo m mooooo' mo moo moo, moo mo?" mooo moo mooooooo.




But all we said, not a word could we drag out of him; I almost felt
Moo moo mo mooo, moo m mooo moooo mo mooo moo mo moo; M mooooo mooo

like pushing him over, so as to change his position, for it was almost
mooo moooooo moo mooo, mo mo mo mooooo moo mooooooo, moo mo moo mooooo

intolerable, it seemed so painfully and unnaturally constrained;
moooooooooo, mo mooooo mo moooooooo moo moooooooooo moooooooooo;

especially, as in all probability he had been sitting so for upwards of
mooooooooo, mo mo moo moooooooooo mo moo mooo moooooo mo moo moooooo mo

eight or ten hours, going too without his regular meals.
moooo mo moo moooo, moooo moo moooooo moo moooooo moooo.




"Mrs. Hussey," said I, "he's ALIVE at all events; so leave us, if you
"Moo. Mooooo," mooo M, "mo'm MOOOO mo moo mooooo; mo moooo mo, mo moo

please, and I will see to this strange affair myself."
mooooo, moo M mooo moo mo mooo moooooo mooooo mooooo."




Closing the door upon the landlady, I endeavored to prevail upon
Moooooo moo mooo mooo moo mooooooo, M mooooooooo mo moooooo mooo

Queequeg to take a chair; but in vain. There he sat; and all he could
Mooooooo mo mooo m moooo; moo mo mooo. Moooo mo moo; moo moo mo moooo

do--for all my polite arts and blandishments--he would not move a peg,
mo--moo moo mo mooooo mooo moo moooooooooooo--mo moooo moo mooo m moo,

nor say a single word, nor even look at me, nor notice my presence in
moo moo m mooooo mooo, moo mooo mooo mo mo, moo mooooo mo mooooooo mo

the slightest way.
moo moooooooo moo.




I wonder, thought I, if this can possibly be a part of his Ramadan; do
M mooooo, moooooo M, mo mooo moo mooooooo mo m mooo mo moo Moooooo; mo

they fast on their hams that way in his native island. It must be so;
mooo mooo mo moooo mooo mooo moo mo moo mooooo mooooo. Mo mooo mo mo;

yes, it's part of his creed, I suppose; well, then, let him rest; he'll
moo, mo'm mooo mo moo moooo, M moooooo; mooo, mooo, moo moo mooo; mo'mo

get up sooner or later, no doubt. It can't last for ever, thank God,
moo mo mooooo mo moooo, mo moooo. Mo moo'm mooo moo mooo, moooo Moo,

and his Ramadan only comes once a year; and I don't believe it's very
moo moo Moooooo mooo moooo mooo m mooo; moo M moo'm moooooo mo'm mooo

punctual then.
mooooooo mooo.




I went down to supper. After sitting a long time listening to the long
M mooo mooo mo mooooo. Moooo moooooo m mooo mooo moooooooo mo moo mooo

stories of some sailors who had just come from a plum-pudding voyage, as
moooooo mo mooo moooooo moo moo mooo mooo mooo m mooo-moooooo mooooo, mo

they called it (that is, a short whaling-voyage in a schooner or brig,
mooo mooooo mo (mooo mo, m moooo moooooo-mooooo mo m mooooooo mo mooo,

confined to the north of the line, in the Atlantic Ocean only); after
mooooooo mo moo moooo mo moo mooo, mo moo Mooooooo Moooo mooo); moooo

listening to these plum-puddingers till nearly eleven o'clock, I went
moooooooo mo moooo mooo-mooooooooo mooo mooooo mooooo m'moooo, M mooo

up stairs to go to bed, feeling quite sure by this time Queequeg must
mo mooooo mo mo mo moo, moooooo moooo mooo mo mooo mooo Mooooooo mooo

certainly have brought his Ramadan to a termination. But no; there he
moooooooo mooo moooooo moo Moooooo mo m moooooooooo. Moo mo; moooo mo

was just where I had left him; he had not stirred an inch. I began to
moo mooo moooo M moo mooo moo; mo moo moo moooooo mo mooo. M moooo mo

grow vexed with him; it seemed so downright senseless and insane to be
mooo moooo mooo moo; mo mooooo mo moooooooo moooooooo moo mooooo mo mo

sitting there all day and half the night on his hams in a cold room,
moooooo moooo moo moo moo mooo moo moooo mo moo mooo mo m mooo mooo,

holding a piece of wood on his head.
moooooo m moooo mo mooo mo moo mooo.




"For heaven's sake, Queequeg, get up and shake yourself; get up and have
"Moo mooooo'm mooo, Mooooooo, moo mo moo moooo mooooooo; moo mo moo mooo

some supper. You'll starve; you'll kill yourself, Queequeg." But not a
mooo mooooo. Moo'mo mooooo; moo'mo mooo mooooooo, Mooooooo." Moo moo m

word did he reply.
mooo moo mo moooo.




Despairing of him, therefore, I determined to go to bed and to sleep;
Mooooooooo mo moo, moooooooo, M mooooooooo mo mo mo moo moo mo moooo;

and no doubt, before a great while, he would follow me. But previous to
moo mo moooo, mooooo m moooo moooo, mo moooo mooooo mo. Moo mooooooo mo

turning in, I took my heavy bearskin jacket, and threw it over him, as
moooooo mo, M mooo mo moooo mooooooo mooooo, moo moooo mo mooo moo, mo

it promised to be a very cold night; and he had nothing but his ordinary
mo mooooooo mo mo m mooo mooo moooo; moo mo moo moooooo moo moo mooooooo

round jacket on. For some time, do all I would, I could not get into
moooo mooooo mo. Moo mooo mooo, mo moo M moooo, M moooo moo moo mooo

the faintest doze. I had blown out the candle; and the mere thought
moo mooooooo mooo. M moo moooo moo moo mooooo; moo moo mooo moooooo

of Queequeg--not four feet off--sitting there in that uneasy position,
mo Mooooooo--moo mooo mooo moo--moooooo moooo mo mooo mooooo mooooooo,

stark alone in the cold and dark; this made me really wretched. Think of
moooo moooo mo moo mooo moo mooo; mooo mooo mo mooooo mooooooo. Moooo mo

it; sleeping all night in the same room with a wide awake pagan on his
mo; mooooooo moo moooo mo moo mooo mooo mooo m mooo moooo moooo mo moo

hams in this dreary, unaccountable Ramadan!
mooo mo mooo mooooo, moooooooooooo Moooooo!




But somehow I dropped off at last, and knew nothing more till break of
Moo moooooo M moooooo moo mo mooo, moo mooo moooooo mooo mooo moooo mo

day; when, looking over the bedside, there squatted Queequeg, as if he
moo; mooo, moooooo mooo moo moooooo, moooo mooooooo Mooooooo, mo mo mo

had been screwed down to the floor. But as soon as the first glimpse of
moo mooo moooooo mooo mo moo moooo. Moo mo mooo mo moo moooo moooooo mo

sun entered the window, up he got, with stiff and grating joints,
moo moooooo moo mooooo, mo mo moo, mooo moooo moo moooooo mooooo,

but with a cheerful look; limped towards me where I lay; pressed his
moo mooo m mooooooo mooo; mooooo moooooo mo moooo M moo; moooooo moo

forehead again against mine; and said his Ramadan was over.
mooooooo moooo moooooo mooo; moo mooo moo Moooooo moo mooo.




Now, as I before hinted, I have no objection to any person's religion,
Moo, mo M mooooo mooooo, M mooo mo moooooooo mo moo mooooo'm mooooooo,

be it what it may, so long as that person does not kill or insult any
mo mo mooo mo moo, mo mooo mo mooo mooooo mooo moo mooo mo mooooo moo

other person, because that other person don't believe it also. But when
moooo mooooo, moooooo mooo moooo mooooo moo'm moooooo mo mooo. Moo mooo

a man's religion becomes really frantic; when it is a positive torment
m moo'm mooooooo moooooo mooooo moooooo; mooo mo mo m mooooooo moooooo

to him; and, in fine, makes this earth of ours an uncomfortable inn to
mo moo; moo, mo mooo, moooo mooo moooo mo mooo mo moooooooooooo moo mo

lodge in; then I think it high time to take that individual aside and
moooo mo; mooo M moooo mo mooo mooo mo mooo mooo mooooooooo moooo moo

argue the point with him.
moooo moo moooo mooo moo.




And just so I now did with Queequeg. "Queequeg," said I, "get into bed
Moo mooo mo M moo moo mooo Mooooooo. "Mooooooo," mooo M, "moo mooo moo

now, and lie and listen to me." I then went on, beginning with the rise
moo, moo moo moo mooooo mo mo." M mooo mooo mo, moooooooo mooo moo mooo

and progress of the primitive religions, and coming down to the various
moo mooooooo mo moo moooooooo moooooooo, moo mooooo mooo mo moo moooooo

religions of the present time, during which time I labored to show
moooooooo mo moo moooooo mooo, mooooo moooo mooo M moooooo mo mooo

Queequeg that all these Lents, Ramadans, and prolonged ham-squattings in
Mooooooo mooo moo moooo Moooo, Mooooooo, moo moooooooo moo-mooooooooo mo

cold, cheerless rooms were stark nonsense; bad for the health; useless
mooo, moooooooo moooo mooo moooo mooooooo; moo moo moo mooooo; moooooo

for the soul; opposed, in short, to the obvious laws of Hygiene and
moo moo mooo; moooooo, mo moooo, mo moo moooooo mooo mo Moooooo moo

common sense. I told him, too, that he being in other things such an
mooooo moooo. M mooo moo, moo, mooo mo moooo mo moooo mooooo mooo mo

extremely sensible and sagacious savage, it pained me, very badly pained
moooooooo mooooooo moo moooooooo mooooo, mo mooooo mo, mooo moooo mooooo

me, to see him now so deplorably foolish about this ridiculous Ramadan
mo, mo moo moo moo mo mooooooooo moooooo moooo mooo mooooooooo Moooooo

of his. Besides, argued I, fasting makes the body cave in; hence the
mo moo. Moooooo, mooooo M, moooooo moooo moo mooo mooo mo; moooo moo

spirit caves in; and all thoughts born of a fast must necessarily be
mooooo moooo mo; moo moo mooooooo mooo mo m mooo mooo moooooooooo mo

half-starved. This is the reason why most dyspeptic religionists cherish
mooo-moooooo. Mooo mo moo mooooo moo mooo moooooooo mooooooooooo moooooo

such melancholy notions about their hereafters. In one word, Queequeg,
mooo mooooooooo moooooo moooo moooo mooooooooo. Mo moo mooo, Mooooooo,

said I, rather digressively; hell is an idea first born on an undigested
mooo M, mooooo mooooooooooo; mooo mo mo mooo moooo mooo mo mo mooooooooo

apple-dumpling; and since then perpetuated through the hereditary
moooo-mooooooo; moo moooo mooo moooooooooo moooooo moo mooooooooo

dyspepsias nurtured by Ramadans.
mooooooooo mooooooo mo Mooooooo.




I then asked Queequeg whether he himself was ever troubled with
M mooo moooo Mooooooo moooooo mo moooooo moo mooo mooooooo mooo

dyspepsia; expressing the idea very plainly, so that he could take it
moooooooo; mooooooooo moo mooo mooo moooooo, mo mooo mo moooo mooo mo

in. He said no; only upon one memorable occasion. It was after a great
mo. Mo mooo mo; mooo mooo moo moooooooo mooooooo. Mo moo moooo m moooo

feast given by his father the king, on the gaining of a great battle
moooo moooo mo moo mooooo moo mooo, mo moo moooooo mo m moooo mooooo

wherein fifty of the enemy had been killed by about two o'clock in the
moooooo moooo mo moo moooo moo mooo mooooo mo moooo moo m'moooo mo moo

afternoon, and all cooked and eaten that very evening.
moooooooo, moo moo mooooo moo moooo mooo mooo moooooo.




"No more, Queequeg," said I, shuddering; "that will do;" for I knew the
"Mo mooo, Mooooooo," mooo M, mooooooooo; "mooo mooo mo;" moo M mooo moo

inferences without his further hinting them. I had seen a sailor who had
mooooooooo moooooo moo moooooo moooooo mooo. M moo mooo m mooooo moo moo

visited that very island, and he told me that it was the custom, when
moooooo mooo mooo mooooo, moo mo mooo mo mooo mo moo moo mooooo, mooo

a great battle had been gained there, to barbecue all the slain in the
m moooo mooooo moo mooo mooooo moooo, mo mooooooo moo moo moooo mo moo

yard or garden of the victor; and then, one by one, they were placed
mooo mo mooooo mo moo mooooo; moo mooo, moo mo moo, mooo mooo mooooo

in great wooden trenchers, and garnished round like a pilau, with
mo moooo mooooo moooooooo, moo moooooooo moooo mooo m moooo, mooo

breadfruit and cocoanuts; and with some parsley in their mouths, were
mooooooooo moo moooooooo; moo mooo mooo moooooo mo moooo mooooo, mooo

sent round with the victor's compliments to all his friends, just as
mooo moooo mooo moo mooooo'm moooooooooo mo moo moo moooooo, mooo mo

though these presents were so many Christmas turkeys.
mooooo moooo mooooooo mooo mo mooo Moooooooo moooooo.




After all, I do not think that my remarks about religion made much
Moooo moo, M mo moo moooo mooo mo moooooo moooo mooooooo mooo mooo

impression upon Queequeg. Because, in the first place, he somehow seemed
mooooooooo mooo Mooooooo. Moooooo, mo moo moooo moooo, mo moooooo mooooo

dull of hearing on that important subject, unless considered from his
mooo mo moooooo mo mooo moooooooo moooooo, mooooo mooooooooo mooo moo

own point of view; and, in the second place, he did not more than one
moo moooo mo mooo; moo, mo moo mooooo moooo, mo moo moo mooo mooo moo

third understand me, couch my ideas simply as I would; and, finally, he
moooo mooooooooo mo, moooo mo moooo mooooo mo M moooo; moo, moooooo, mo

no doubt thought he knew a good deal more about the true religion than
mo moooo moooooo mo mooo m mooo mooo mooo moooo moo mooo mooooooo mooo

I did. He looked at me with a sort of condescending concern and
M moo. Mo mooooo mo mo mooo m mooo mo moooooooooooo moooooo moo

compassion, as though he thought it a great pity that such a sensible
mooooooooo, mo mooooo mo moooooo mo m moooo mooo mooo mooo m mooooooo

young man should be so hopelessly lost to evangelical pagan piety.
moooo moo mooooo mo mo mooooooooo mooo mo moooooooooo moooo moooo.




At last we rose and dressed; and Queequeg, taking a prodigiously hearty
Mo mooo mo mooo moo moooooo; moo Mooooooo, mooooo m mooooooooooo mooooo

breakfast of chowders of all sorts, so that the landlady should not
moooooooo mo mooooooo mo moo moooo, mo mooo moo mooooooo mooooo moo

make much profit by reason of his Ramadan, we sallied out to board the
mooo mooo mooooo mo mooooo mo moo Moooooo, mo moooooo moo mo moooo moo

Pequod, sauntering along, and picking our teeth with halibut bones.
Mooooo, mooooooooo moooo, moo moooooo moo moooo mooo moooooo moooo.










CHAPTER 18. His Mark.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Mooo.







As we were walking down the end of the wharf towards the ship, Queequeg
Mo mo mooo moooooo mooo moo moo mo moo moooo moooooo moo mooo, Mooooooo

carrying his harpoon, Captain Peleg in his gruff voice loudly hailed us
mooooooo moo moooooo, Moooooo Moooo mo moo moooo moooo mooooo mooooo mo

from his wigwam, saying he had not suspected my friend was a cannibal,
mooo moo mooooo, mooooo mo moo moo moooooooo mo mooooo moo m mooooooo,

and furthermore announcing that he let no cannibals on board that craft,
moo moooooooooo mooooooooo mooo mo moo mo moooooooo mo moooo mooo moooo,

unless they previously produced their papers.
mooooo mooo mooooooooo mooooooo moooo mooooo.




"What do you mean by that, Captain Peleg?" said I, now jumping on the
"Mooo mo moo mooo mo mooo, Moooooo Moooo?" mooo M, moo moooooo mo moo

bulwarks, and leaving my comrade standing on the wharf.
mooooooo, moo moooooo mo moooooo mooooooo mo moo moooo.




"I mean," he replied, "he must show his papers."
"M mooo," mo moooooo, "mo mooo mooo moo mooooo."




"Yes," said Captain Bildad in his hollow voice, sticking his head from
"Moo," mooo Moooooo Mooooo mo moo mooooo moooo, mooooooo moo mooo mooo

behind Peleg's, out of the wigwam. "He must show that he's converted.
mooooo Moooo'm, moo mo moo mooooo. "Mo mooo mooo mooo mo'm moooooooo.

Son of darkness," he added, turning to Queequeg, "art thou at present in
Moo mo mooooooo," mo moooo, moooooo mo Mooooooo, "moo mooo mo moooooo mo

communion with any Christian church?"
moooooooo mooo moo Moooooooo mooooo?"




"Why," said I, "he's a member of the first Congregational Church." Here
"Moo," mooo M, "mo'm m mooooo mo moo moooo Mooooooooooooo Mooooo." Mooo

be it said, that many tattooed savages sailing in Nantucket ships at
mo mo mooo, mooo mooo mooooooo moooooo moooooo mo Moooooooo moooo mo

last come to be converted into the churches.
mooo mooo mo mo moooooooo mooo moo mooooooo.




"First Congregational Church," cried Bildad, "what! that worships in
"Moooo Mooooooooooooo Mooooo," moooo Mooooo, "mooo! mooo mooooooo mo

Deacon Deuteronomy Coleman's meeting-house?" and so saying, taking
Mooooo Moooooooooo Moooooo'm moooooo-moooo?" moo mo mooooo, mooooo

out his spectacles, he rubbed them with his great yellow bandana
moo moo mooooooooo, mo mooooo mooo mooo moo moooo mooooo moooooo

handkerchief, and putting them on very carefully, came out of the
mooooooooooo, moo moooooo mooo mo mooo moooooooo, mooo moo mo moo

wigwam, and leaning stiffly over the bulwarks, took a good long look at
mooooo, moo moooooo moooooo mooo moo mooooooo, mooo m mooo mooo mooo mo

Queequeg.
Mooooooo.




"How long hath he been a member?" he then said, turning to me; "not very
"Moo mooo mooo mo mooo m mooooo?" mo mooo mooo, moooooo mo mo; "moo mooo

long, I rather guess, young man."
mooo, M mooooo moooo, moooo moo."




"No," said Peleg, "and he hasn't been baptized right either, or it would
"Mo," mooo Moooo, "moo mo mooo'm mooo mooooooo moooo mooooo, mo mo moooo

have washed some of that devil's blue off his face."
mooo mooooo mooo mo mooo moooo'm mooo moo moo mooo."




"Do tell, now," cried Bildad, "is this Philistine a regular member of
"Mo mooo, moo," moooo Mooooo, "mo mooo Mooooooooo m moooooo mooooo mo

Deacon Deuteronomy's meeting? I never saw him going there, and I pass it
Mooooo Moooooooooo'm moooooo? M moooo moo moo moooo moooo, moo M mooo mo

every Lord's day."
moooo Mooo'm moo."




"I don't know anything about Deacon Deuteronomy or his meeting," said
"M moo'm mooo mooooooo moooo Mooooo Moooooooooo mo moo moooooo," mooo

I; "all I know is, that Queequeg here is a born member of the First
M; "moo M mooo mo, mooo Mooooooo mooo mo m mooo mooooo mo moo Moooo

Congregational Church. He is a deacon himself, Queequeg is."
Mooooooooooooo Mooooo. Mo mo m mooooo moooooo, Mooooooo mo."




"Young man," said Bildad sternly, "thou art skylarking with me--explain
"Moooo moo," mooo Mooooo moooooo, "mooo moo mooooooooo mooo mo--moooooo

thyself, thou young Hittite. What church dost thee mean? answer me."
moooooo, mooo moooo Moooooo. Mooo mooooo mooo mooo mooo? mooooo mo."




Finding myself thus hard pushed, I replied. "I mean, sir, the same
Moooooo mooooo mooo mooo mooooo, M moooooo. "M mooo, moo, moo mooo

ancient Catholic Church to which you and I, and Captain Peleg there,
moooooo Mooooooo Mooooo mo moooo moo moo M, moo Moooooo Moooo moooo,

and Queequeg here, and all of us, and every mother's son and soul of
moo Mooooooo mooo, moo moo mo mo, moo moooo mooooo'm moo moo mooo mo

us belong; the great and everlasting First Congregation of this whole
mo mooooo; moo moooo moo moooooooooo Moooo Mooooooooooo mo mooo moooo

worshipping world; we all belong to that; only some of us cherish some
moooooooooo moooo; mo moo mooooo mo mooo; mooo mooo mo mo moooooo mooo

queer crotchets no ways touching the grand belief; in THAT we all join
moooo moooooooo mo mooo mooooooo moo moooo mooooo; mo MOOO mo moo mooo

hands."
moooo."




"Splice, thou mean'st SPLICE hands," cried Peleg, drawing nearer. "Young
"Mooooo, mooo mooo'mo MOOOOO moooo," moooo Moooo, moooooo mooooo. "Moooo

man, you'd better ship for a missionary, instead of a fore-mast hand;
moo, moo'm mooooo mooo moo m mooooooooo, moooooo mo m mooo-mooo mooo;

I never heard a better sermon. Deacon Deuteronomy--why Father Mapple
M moooo moooo m mooooo mooooo. Mooooo Moooooooooo--moo Mooooo Mooooo

himself couldn't beat it, and he's reckoned something. Come aboard, come
moooooo mooooo'm mooo mo, moo mo'm mooooooo moooooooo. Mooo mooooo, mooo

aboard; never mind about the papers. I say, tell Quohog there--what's
mooooo; moooo mooo moooo moo mooooo. M moo, mooo Mooooo moooo--mooo'm

that you call him? tell Quohog to step along. By the great anchor, what
mooo moo mooo moo? mooo Mooooo mo mooo moooo. Mo moo moooo mooooo, mooo

a harpoon he's got there! looks like good stuff that; and he handles it
m moooooo mo'm moo moooo! moooo mooo mooo moooo mooo; moo mo moooooo mo

about right. I say, Quohog, or whatever your name is, did you ever stand
moooo moooo. M moo, Mooooo, mo mooooooo mooo mooo mo, moo moo mooo moooo

in the head of a whale-boat? did you ever strike a fish?"
mo moo mooo mo m moooo-mooo? moo moo mooo mooooo m mooo?"




Without saying a word, Queequeg, in his wild sort of way, jumped upon
Moooooo mooooo m mooo, Mooooooo, mo moo mooo mooo mo moo, mooooo mooo

the bulwarks, from thence into the bows of one of the whale-boats
moo mooooooo, mooo mooooo mooo moo mooo mo moo mo moo moooo-moooo

hanging to the side; and then bracing his left knee, and poising his
moooooo mo moo mooo; moo mooo moooooo moo mooo mooo, moo moooooo moo

harpoon, cried out in some such way as this:--
moooooo, moooo moo mo mooo mooo moo mo mooo:--




"Cap'ain, you see him small drop tar on water dere? You see him? well,
"Moo'moo, moo moo moo moooo mooo moo mo moooo mooo? Moo moo moo? mooo,

spose him one whale eye, well, den!" and taking sharp aim at it, he
moooo moo moo moooo moo, mooo, moo!" moo mooooo moooo moo mo mo, mo

darted the iron right over old Bildad's broad brim, clean across the
mooooo moo mooo moooo mooo moo Mooooo'm moooo mooo, moooo mooooo moo

ship's decks, and struck the glistening tar spot out of sight.
mooo'm moooo, moo mooooo moo mooooooooo moo mooo moo mo moooo.




"Now," said Queequeg, quietly hauling in the line, "spos-ee him whale-e
"Moo," mooo Mooooooo, moooooo moooooo mo moo mooo, "mooo-mo moo moooo-m

eye; why, dad whale dead."
moo; moo, moo moooo mooo."




"Quick, Bildad," said Peleg, his partner, who, aghast at the close
"Moooo, Mooooo," mooo Moooo, moo moooooo, moo, mooooo mo moo moooo

vicinity of the flying harpoon, had retreated towards the cabin gangway.
mooooooo mo moo mooooo moooooo, moo moooooooo moooooo moo moooo moooooo.

"Quick, I say, you Bildad, and get the ship's papers. We must have
"Moooo, M moo, moo Mooooo, moo moo moo mooo'm mooooo. Mo mooo mooo

Hedgehog there, I mean Quohog, in one of our boats. Look ye, Quohog,
Mooooooo moooo, M mooo Mooooo, mo moo mo moo moooo. Mooo mo, Mooooo,

we'll give ye the ninetieth lay, and that's more than ever was given a
mo'mo mooo mo moo moooooooo moo, moo mooo'm mooo mooo mooo moo moooo m

harpooneer yet out of Nantucket."
mooooooooo moo moo mo Moooooooo."




So down we went into the cabin, and to my great joy Queequeg was soon
Mo mooo mo mooo mooo moo moooo, moo mo mo moooo moo Mooooooo moo mooo

enrolled among the same ship's company to which I myself belonged.
mooooooo moooo moo mooo mooo'm moooooo mo moooo M mooooo mooooooo.




When all preliminaries were over and Peleg had got everything ready for
Mooo moo moooooooooooo mooo mooo moo Moooo moo moo mooooooooo moooo moo

signing, he turned to me and said, "I guess, Quohog there don't know how
moooooo, mo mooooo mo mo moo mooo, "M moooo, Mooooo moooo moo'm mooo moo

to write, does he? I say, Quohog, blast ye! dost thou sign thy name or
mo moooo, mooo mo? M moo, Mooooo, moooo mo! mooo mooo mooo moo mooo mo

make thy mark?"
mooo moo mooo?"




But at this question, Queequeg, who had twice or thrice before taken
Moo mo mooo mooooooo, Mooooooo, moo moo moooo mo mooooo mooooo moooo

part in similar ceremonies, looked no ways abashed; but taking the
mooo mo moooooo mooooooooo, mooooo mo mooo moooooo; moo mooooo moo

offered pen, copied upon the paper, in the proper place, an exact
moooooo moo, mooooo mooo moo moooo, mo moo mooooo moooo, mo moooo

counterpart of a queer round figure which was tattooed upon his arm; so
moooooooooo mo m moooo moooo mooooo moooo moo mooooooo mooo moo moo; mo

that through Captain Peleg's obstinate mistake touching his appellative,
mooo moooooo Moooooo Moooo'm moooooooo moooooo mooooooo moo moooooooooo,

it stood something like this:--
mo moooo moooooooo mooo mooo:--




Quohog. his X mark.
Mooooo. moo M mooo.




Meanwhile Captain Bildad sat earnestly and steadfastly eyeing Queequeg,
Moooooooo Moooooo Mooooo moo moooooooo moo moooooooooo mooooo Mooooooo,

and at last rising solemnly and fumbling in the huge pockets of his
moo mo mooo mooooo mooooooo moo mooooooo mo moo mooo moooooo mo moo

broad-skirted drab coat, took out a bundle of tracts, and selecting
moooo-moooooo mooo mooo, mooo moo m mooooo mo mooooo, moo moooooooo

one entitled "The Latter Day Coming; or No Time to Lose," placed it in
moo mooooooo "Moo Mooooo Moo Mooooo; mo Mo Mooo mo Mooo," mooooo mo mo

Queequeg's hands, and then grasping them and the book with both his,
Mooooooo'm moooo, moo mooo mooooooo mooo moo moo mooo mooo mooo moo,

looked earnestly into his eyes, and said, "Son of darkness, I must do my
mooooo moooooooo mooo moo mooo, moo mooo, "Moo mo mooooooo, M mooo mo mo

duty by thee; I am part owner of this ship, and feel concerned for the
mooo mo mooo; M mo mooo moooo mo mooo mooo, moo mooo moooooooo moo moo

souls of all its crew; if thou still clingest to thy Pagan ways, which I
moooo mo moo moo mooo; mo mooo moooo mooooooo mo moo Moooo mooo, moooo M

sadly fear, I beseech thee, remain not for aye a Belial bondsman. Spurn
moooo mooo, M moooooo mooo, mooooo moo moo moo m Mooooo mooooooo. Moooo

the idol Bell, and the hideous dragon; turn from the wrath to come; mind
moo mooo Mooo, moo moo moooooo mooooo; mooo mooo moo moooo mo mooo; mooo

thine eye, I say; oh! goodness gracious! steer clear of the fiery pit!"
moooo moo, M moo; mo! mooooooo mooooooo! moooo moooo mo moo moooo moo!"




Something of the salt sea yet lingered in old Bildad's language,
Moooooooo mo moo mooo moo moo mooooooo mo moo Mooooo'm mooooooo,

heterogeneously mixed with Scriptural and domestic phrases.
moooooooooooooo moooo mooo Mooooooooo moo mooooooo moooooo.




"Avast there, avast there, Bildad, avast now spoiling our harpooneer,"
"Moooo moooo, moooo moooo, Mooooo, moooo moo mooooooo moo mooooooooo,"

cried Peleg. "Pious harpooneers never make good voyagers--it takes the shark
moooo Moooo. "Moooo moooooooooo moooo mooo mooo mooooooo--mo moooo moo moooo

out of 'em; no harpooneer is worth a straw who aint pretty sharkish.
moo mo 'mo; mo mooooooooo mo moooo m moooo moo mooo mooooo mooooooo.

There was young Nat Swaine, once the bravest boat-header out of all
Moooo moo moooo Moo Mooooo, mooo moo moooooo mooo-mooooo moo mo moo

Nantucket and the Vineyard; he joined the meeting, and never came to
Moooooooo moo moo Mooooooo; mo mooooo moo moooooo, moo moooo mooo mo

good. He got so frightened about his plaguy soul, that he shrinked and
mooo. Mo moo mo mooooooooo moooo moo mooooo mooo, mooo mo mooooooo moo

sheered away from whales, for fear of after-claps, in case he got stove
moooooo mooo mooo mooooo, moo mooo mo moooo-moooo, mo mooo mo moo moooo

and went to Davy Jones."
moo mooo mo Mooo Moooo."




"Peleg! Peleg!" said Bildad, lifting his eyes and hands, "thou thyself,
"Moooo! Moooo!" mooo Mooooo, moooooo moo mooo moo moooo, "mooo moooooo,

as I myself, hast seen many a perilous time; thou knowest, Peleg, what
mo M mooooo, mooo mooo mooo m mooooooo mooo; mooo moooooo, Moooo, mooo

it is to have the fear of death; how, then, can'st thou prate in this
mo mo mo mooo moo mooo mo moooo; moo, mooo, moo'mo mooo moooo mo mooo

ungodly guise. Thou beliest thine own heart, Peleg. Tell me, when this
moooooo moooo. Mooo moooooo moooo moo moooo, Moooo. Mooo mo, mooo mooo

same Pequod here had her three masts overboard in that typhoon on Japan,
mooo Mooooo mooo moo moo moooo moooo moooooooo mo mooo moooooo mo Moooo,

that same voyage when thou went mate with Captain Ahab, did'st thou not
mooo mooo mooooo mooo mooo mooo mooo mooo Moooooo Mooo, moo'mo mooo moo

think of Death and the Judgment then?"
moooo mo Moooo moo moo Mooooooo mooo?"




"Hear him, hear him now," cried Peleg, marching across the cabin, and
"Mooo moo, mooo moo moo," moooo Moooo, mooooooo mooooo moo moooo, moo

thrusting his hands far down into his pockets,--"hear him, all of ye.
moooooooo moo moooo moo mooo mooo moo moooooo,--"mooo moo, moo mo mo.

Think of that! When every moment we thought the ship would sink!
Moooo mo mooo! Mooo moooo mooooo mo moooooo moo mooo moooo mooo!

Death and the Judgment then? What? With all three masts making such an
Moooo moo moo Mooooooo mooo? Mooo? Mooo moo moooo moooo mooooo mooo mo

everlasting thundering against the side; and every sea breaking over us,
moooooooooo mooooooooo moooooo moo mooo; moo moooo moo mooooooo mooo mo,

fore and aft. Think of Death and the Judgment then? No! no time to think
mooo moo moo. Moooo mo Moooo moo moo Mooooooo mooo? Mo! mo mooo mo moooo

about Death then. Life was what Captain Ahab and I was thinking of;
moooo Moooo mooo. Mooo moo mooo Moooooo Mooo moo M moo mooooooo mo;

and how to save all hands--how to rig jury-masts--how to get into the
moo moo mo mooo moo moooo--moo mo moo mooo-moooo--moo mo moo mooo moo

nearest port; that was what I was thinking of."
moooooo mooo; mooo moo mooo M moo mooooooo mo."




Bildad said no more, but buttoning up his coat, stalked on deck,
Mooooo mooo mo mooo, moo moooooooo mo moo mooo, moooooo mo mooo,

where we followed him. There he stood, very quietly overlooking some
moooo mo mooooooo moo. Moooo mo moooo, mooo moooooo moooooooooo mooo

sailmakers who were mending a top-sail in the waist. Now and then
mooooooooo moo mooo moooooo m moo-mooo mo moo moooo. Moo moo mooo

he stooped to pick up a patch, or save an end of tarred twine, which
mo moooooo mo mooo mo m moooo, mo mooo mo moo mo mooooo moooo, moooo

otherwise might have been wasted.
moooooooo moooo mooo mooo mooooo.










CHAPTER 19. The Prophet.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Moooooo.







"Shipmates, have ye shipped in that ship?"
"Moooooooo, mooo mo moooooo mo mooo mooo?"




Queequeg and I had just left the Pequod, and were sauntering away from
Mooooooo moo M moo mooo mooo moo Mooooo, moo mooo mooooooooo mooo mooo

the water, for the moment each occupied with his own thoughts, when
moo moooo, moo moo mooooo mooo mooooooo mooo moo moo mooooooo, mooo

the above words were put to us by a stranger, who, pausing before us,
moo moooo moooo mooo moo mo mo mo m mooooooo, moo, moooooo mooooo mo,

levelled his massive forefinger at the vessel in question. He was but
mooooooo moo moooooo mooooooooo mo moo mooooo mo mooooooo. Mo moo moo

shabbily apparelled in faded jacket and patched trowsers; a rag of a
mooooooo mooooooooo mo moooo mooooo moo moooooo mooooooo; m moo mo m

black handkerchief investing his neck. A confluent small-pox had in all
moooo mooooooooooo moooooooo moo mooo. M moooooooo moooo-moo moo mo moo

directions flowed over his face, and left it like the complicated ribbed
mooooooooo mooooo mooo moo mooo, moo mooo mo mooo moo moooooooooo mooooo

bed of a torrent, when the rushing waters have been dried up.
moo mo m moooooo, mooo moo moooooo mooooo mooo mooo moooo mo.




"Have ye shipped in her?" he repeated.
"Mooo mo moooooo mo moo?" mo mooooooo.




"You mean the ship Pequod, I suppose," said I, trying to gain a little
"Moo mooo moo mooo Mooooo, M moooooo," mooo M, mooooo mo mooo m mooooo

more time for an uninterrupted look at him.
mooo mooo moo mo moooooooooooo mooo mo moo.




"Aye, the Pequod--that ship there," he said, drawing back his whole
"Moo, moo Mooooo--mooo mooo moooo," mo mooo, moooooo mooo moo moooo

arm, and then rapidly shoving it straight out from him, with the fixed
moo, moo mooo moooooo moooooo mo mooooooo moo mooo moo, mooo moo moooo

bayonet of his pointed finger darted full at the object.
moooooo mo moo moooooo mooooo mooooo mooo mo moo mooooo.




"Yes," said I, "we have just signed the articles."
"Moo," mooo M, "mo mooo mooo mooooo moo mooooooo."




"Anything down there about your souls?"
"Mooooooo mooo moooo moooo mooo moooo?"




"About what?"
"Moooo mooo?"




"Oh, perhaps you hav'n't got any," he said quickly. "No matter though,
"Mo, moooooo moo moo'm'm moo moo," mo mooo moooooo. "Mo mooooo mooooo,

I know many chaps that hav'n't got any,--good luck to 'em; and they are
M mooo mooo moooo mooo moo'm'm moo moo,--mooo mooo mo 'mo; moo mooo moo

all the better off for it. A soul's a sort of a fifth wheel to a wagon."
moo moo mooooo moo moo mo. M mooo'm m mooo mo m moooo moooo mo m moooo."




"What are you jabbering about, shipmate?" said I.
"Mooo moo moo moooooooo moooo, mooooooo?" mooo M.




"HE'S got enough, though, to make up for all deficiencies of that sort
"MO'M moo mooooo, mooooo, mo mooo mo moo moo mooooooooooo mo mooo mooo

in other chaps," abruptly said the stranger, placing a nervous emphasis
mo moooo moooo," mooooooo mooo moo mooooooo, moooooo m moooooo mooooooo

upon the word HE.
mooo moo mooo MO.




"Queequeg," said I, "let's go; this fellow has broken loose from
"Mooooooo," mooo M, "moo'm mo; mooo mooooo moo mooooo moooo mooo

somewhere; he's talking about something and somebody we don't know."
moooooooo; mo'm moooooo moooo moooooooo moo mooooooo mo moo'm mooo."




"Stop!" cried the stranger. "Ye said true--ye hav'n't seen Old Thunder
"Mooo!" moooo moo mooooooo. "Mo mooo mooo--mo moo'm'm mooo Moo Moooooo

yet, have ye?"
moo, mooo mo?"




"Who's Old Thunder?" said I, again riveted with the insane earnestness
"Moo'm Moo Moooooo?" mooo M, moooo moooooo mooo moo mooooo moooooooooo

of his manner.
mo moo mooooo.




"Captain Ahab."
"Moooooo Mooo."




"What! the captain of our ship, the Pequod?"
"Mooo! moo moooooo mo moo mooo, moo Mooooo?"




"Aye, among some of us old sailor chaps, he goes by that name. Ye
"Moo, moooo mooo mo mo moo mooooo moooo, mo mooo mo mooo mooo. Mo

hav'n't seen him yet, have ye?"
moo'm'm mooo moo moo, mooo mo?"




"No, we hav'n't. He's sick they say, but is getting better, and will be
"Mo, mo moo'm'm. Mo'm mooo mooo moo, moo mo moooooo mooooo, moo mooo mo

all right again before long."
moo moooo moooo mooooo mooo."




"All right again before long!" laughed the stranger, with a solemnly
"Moo moooo moooo mooooo mooo!" moooooo moo mooooooo, mooo m mooooooo

derisive sort of laugh. "Look ye; when Captain Ahab is all right, then
mooooooo mooo mo moooo. "Mooo mo; mooo Moooooo Mooo mo moo moooo, mooo

this left arm of mine will be all right; not before."
mooo mooo moo mo mooo mooo mo moo moooo; moo mooooo."




"What do you know about him?"
"Mooo mo moo mooo moooo moo?"




"What did they TELL you about him? Say that!"
"Mooo moo mooo MOOO moo moooo moo? Moo mooo!"




"They didn't tell much of anything about him; only I've heard that he's
"Mooo mooo'm mooo mooo mo mooooooo moooo moo; mooo M'mo moooo mooo mo'm

a good whale-hunter, and a good captain to his crew."
m mooo moooo-mooooo, moo m mooo moooooo mo moo mooo."




"That's true, that's true--yes, both true enough. But you must jump when
"Mooo'm mooo, mooo'm mooo--moo, mooo mooo mooooo. Moo moo mooo mooo mooo

he gives an order. Step and growl; growl and go--that's the word with
mo moooo mo moooo. Mooo moo moooo; moooo moo mo--mooo'm moo mooo mooo

Captain Ahab. But nothing about that thing that happened to him off Cape
Moooooo Mooo. Moo moooooo moooo mooo moooo mooo mooooooo mo moo moo Mooo

Horn, long ago, when he lay like dead for three days and nights;
Mooo, mooo moo, mooo mo moo mooo mooo moo moooo mooo moo mooooo;

nothing about that deadly skrimmage with the Spaniard afore the altar in
moooooo moooo mooo mooooo moooooooo mooo moo Mooooooo moooo moo moooo mo

Santa?--heard nothing about that, eh? Nothing about the silver calabash
Moooo?--moooo moooooo moooo mooo, mo? Moooooo moooo moo mooooo mooooooo

he spat into? And nothing about his losing his leg last voyage,
mo mooo mooo? Moo moooooo moooo moo mooooo moo moo mooo mooooo,

according to the prophecy. Didn't ye hear a word about them matters and
moooooooo mo moo mooooooo. Mooo'm mo mooo m mooo moooo mooo moooooo moo

something more, eh? No, I don't think ye did; how could ye? Who knows
moooooooo mooo, mo? Mo, M moo'm moooo mo moo; moo moooo mo? Moo moooo

it? Not all Nantucket, I guess. But hows'ever, mayhap, ye've heard tell
mo? Moo moo Moooooooo, M moooo. Moo mooo'mooo, mooooo, mo'mo moooo mooo

about the leg, and how he lost it; aye, ye have heard of that, I dare
moooo moo moo, moo moo mo mooo mo; moo, mo mooo moooo mo mooo, M mooo

say. Oh yes, THAT every one knows a'most--I mean they know he's only one
moo. Mo moo, MOOO moooo moo moooo m'mooo--M mooo mooo mooo mo'm mooo moo

leg; and that a parmacetti took the other off."
moo; moo mooo m mooooooooo mooo moo moooo moo."




"My friend," said I, "what all this gibberish of yours is about, I
"Mo mooooo," mooo M, "mooo moo mooo moooooooo mo moooo mo moooo, M

don't know, and I don't much care; for it seems to me that you must be a
moo'm mooo, moo M moo'm mooo mooo; moo mo moooo mo mo mooo moo mooo mo m

little damaged in the head. But if you are speaking of Captain Ahab, of
mooooo moooooo mo moo mooo. Moo mo moo moo mooooooo mo Moooooo Mooo, mo

that ship there, the Pequod, then let me tell you, that I know all about
mooo mooo moooo, moo Mooooo, mooo moo mo mooo moo, mooo M mooo moo moooo

the loss of his leg."
moo mooo mo moo moo."




"ALL about it, eh--sure you do?--all?"
"MOO moooo mo, mo--mooo moo mo?--moo?"




"Pretty sure."
"Mooooo mooo."




With finger pointed and eye levelled at the Pequod, the beggar-like
Mooo mooooo moooooo moo moo mooooooo mo moo Mooooo, moo mooooo-mooo

stranger stood a moment, as if in a troubled reverie; then starting a
mooooooo moooo m mooooo, mo mo mo m mooooooo moooooo; mooo mooooooo m

little, turned and said:--"Ye've shipped, have ye? Names down on the
mooooo, mooooo moo mooo:--"Mo'mo moooooo, mooo mo? Moooo mooo mo moo

papers? Well, well, what's signed, is signed; and what's to be, will be;
mooooo? Mooo, mooo, mooo'm mooooo, mo mooooo; moo mooo'm mo mo, mooo mo;

and then again, perhaps it won't be, after all. Anyhow, it's all fixed
moo mooo moooo, moooooo mo moo'm mo, moooo moo. Mooooo, mo'm moo moooo

and arranged a'ready; and some sailors or other must go with him, I
moo mooooooo m'moooo; moo mooo moooooo mo moooo mooo mo mooo moo, M

suppose; as well these as any other men, God pity 'em! Morning to ye,
moooooo; mo mooo moooo mo moo moooo moo, Moo mooo 'mo! Moooooo mo mo,

shipmates, morning; the ineffable heavens bless ye; I'm sorry I stopped
moooooooo, moooooo; moo moooooooo moooooo moooo mo; M'm moooo M moooooo

ye."
mo."




"Look here, friend," said I, "if you have anything important to tell
"Mooo mooo, mooooo," mooo M, "mo moo mooo mooooooo moooooooo mo mooo

us, out with it; but if you are only trying to bamboozle us, you are
mo, moo mooo mo; moo mo moo moo mooo mooooo mo moooooooo mo, moo moo

mistaken in your game; that's all I have to say."
mooooooo mo mooo mooo; mooo'm moo M mooo mo moo."




"And it's said very well, and I like to hear a chap talk up that way;
"Moo mo'm mooo mooo mooo, moo M mooo mo mooo m mooo mooo mo mooo moo;

you are just the man for him--the likes of ye. Morning to ye, shipmates,
moo moo mooo moo moo moo moo--moo moooo mo mo. Moooooo mo mo, moooooooo,

morning! Oh! when ye get there, tell 'em I've concluded not to make one
moooooo! Mo! mooo mo moo moooo, mooo 'mo M'mo moooooooo moo mo mooo moo

of 'em."
mo 'mo."




"Ah, my dear fellow, you can't fool us that way--you can't fool us. It
"Mo, mo mooo mooooo, moo moo'm mooo mo mooo moo--moo moo'm mooo mo. Mo

is the easiest thing in the world for a man to look as if he had a great
mo moo moooooo moooo mo moo moooo moo m moo mo mooo mo mo mo moo m moooo

secret in him."
mooooo mo moo."




"Morning to ye, shipmates, morning."
"Moooooo mo mo, moooooooo, moooooo."




"Morning it is," said I. "Come along, Queequeg, let's leave this crazy
"Moooooo mo mo," mooo M. "Mooo moooo, Mooooooo, moo'm moooo mooo moooo

man. But stop, tell me your name, will you?"
moo. Moo mooo, mooo mo mooo mooo, mooo moo?"




"Elijah."
"Mooooo."




Elijah! thought I, and we walked away, both commenting, after each
Mooooo! moooooo M, moo mo mooooo mooo, mooo mooooooooo, moooo mooo

other's fashion, upon this ragged old sailor; and agreed that he was
moooo'm moooooo, mooo mooo mooooo moo mooooo; moo mooooo mooo mo moo

nothing but a humbug, trying to be a bugbear. But we had not gone
moooooo moo m mooooo, mooooo mo mo m moooooo. Moo mo moo moo mooo

perhaps above a hundred yards, when chancing to turn a corner, and
moooooo moooo m moooooo moooo, mooo mooooooo mo mooo m mooooo, moo

looking back as I did so, who should be seen but Elijah following us,
moooooo mooo mo M moo mo, moo mooooo mo mooo moo Mooooo moooooooo mo,

though at a distance. Somehow, the sight of him struck me so, that I
mooooo mo m mooooooo. Moooooo, moo moooo mo moo mooooo mo mo, mooo M

said nothing to Queequeg of his being behind, but passed on with my
mooo moooooo mo Mooooooo mo moo moooo mooooo, moo mooooo mo mooo mo

comrade, anxious to see whether the stranger would turn the same corner
moooooo, moooooo mo moo moooooo moo mooooooo moooo mooo moo mooo mooooo

that we did. He did; and then it seemed to me that he was dogging
mooo mo moo. Mo moo; moo mooo mo mooooo mo mo mooo mo moo moooooo

us, but with what intent I could not for the life of me imagine. This
mo, moo mooo mooo mooooo M moooo moo moo moo mooo mo mo moooooo. Mooo

circumstance, coupled with his ambiguous, half-hinting, half-revealing,
mooooooooooo, moooooo mooo moo moooooooo, mooo-moooooo, mooo-moooooooo,

shrouded sort of talk, now begat in me all kinds of vague wonderments
mooooooo mooo mo mooo, moo moooo mo mo moo moooo mo moooo moooooooooo

and half-apprehensions, and all connected with the Pequod; and Captain
moo mooo-moooooooooooo, moo moo moooooooo mooo moo Mooooo; moo Moooooo

Ahab; and the leg he had lost; and the Cape Horn fit; and the silver
Mooo; moo moo moo mo moo mooo; moo moo Mooo Mooo moo; moo moo mooooo

calabash; and what Captain Peleg had said of him, when I left the ship
mooooooo; moo mooo Moooooo Moooo moo mooo mo moo, mooo M mooo moo mooo

the day previous; and the prediction of the squaw Tistig; and the voyage
moo moo mooooooo; moo moo mooooooooo mo moo moooo Mooooo; moo moo mooooo

we had bound ourselves to sail; and a hundred other shadowy things.
mo moo moooo moooooooo mo mooo; moo m moooooo moooo moooooo mooooo.




I was resolved to satisfy myself whether this ragged Elijah was really
M moo mooooooo mo moooooo mooooo moooooo mooo mooooo Mooooo moo mooooo

dogging us or not, and with that intent crossed the way with Queequeg,
moooooo mo mo moo, moo mooo mooo mooooo moooooo moo moo mooo Mooooooo,

and on that side of it retraced our steps. But Elijah passed on, without
moo mo mooo mooo mo mo mooooooo moo moooo. Moo Mooooo mooooo mo, moooooo

seeming to notice us. This relieved me; and once more, and finally as it
moooooo mo mooooo mo. Mooo mooooooo mo; moo mooo mooo, moo moooooo mo mo

seemed to me, I pronounced him in my heart, a humbug.
mooooo mo mo, M mooooooooo moo mo mo moooo, m mooooo.










CHAPTER 20. All Astir.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Moooo.







A day or two passed, and there was great activity aboard the Pequod.
M moo mo moo mooooo, moo moooo moo moooo mooooooo mooooo moo Mooooo.

Not only were the old sails being mended, but new sails were coming on
Moo mooo mooo moo moo moooo moooo mooooo, moo moo moooo mooo mooooo mo

board, and bolts of canvas, and coils of rigging; in short, everything
moooo, moo moooo mo mooooo, moo moooo mo moooooo; mo moooo, mooooooooo

betokened that the ship's preparations were hurrying to a close. Captain
moooooooo mooo moo mooo'm mooooooooooo mooo mooooooo mo m moooo. Moooooo

Peleg seldom or never went ashore, but sat in his wigwam keeping a sharp
Moooo mooooo mo moooo mooo mooooo, moo moo mo moo mooooo moooooo m moooo

look-out upon the hands: Bildad did all the purchasing and providing
mooo-moo mooo moo moooo: Mooooo moo moo moo mooooooooo moo moooooooo

at the stores; and the men employed in the hold and on the rigging were
mo moo mooooo; moo moo moo mooooooo mo moo mooo moo mo moo moooooo mooo

working till long after night-fall.
moooooo mooo mooo moooo moooo-mooo.




On the day following Queequeg's signing the articles, word was given at
Mo moo moo moooooooo Mooooooo'm moooooo moo mooooooo, mooo moo moooo mo

all the inns where the ship's company were stopping, that their chests
moo moo mooo moooo moo mooo'm moooooo mooo mooooooo, mooo moooo mooooo

must be on board before night, for there was no telling how soon
mooo mo mo moooo mooooo moooo, moo moooo moo mo moooooo moo mooo

the vessel might be sailing. So Queequeg and I got down our traps,
moo mooooo moooo mo moooooo. Mo Mooooooo moo M moo mooo moo moooo,

resolving, however, to sleep ashore till the last. But it seems they
moooooooo, moooooo, mo moooo mooooo mooo moo mooo. Moo mo moooo mooo

always give very long notice in these cases, and the ship did not sail
mooooo mooo mooo mooo mooooo mo moooo moooo, moo moo mooo moo moo mooo

for several days. But no wonder; there was a good deal to be done, and
moo moooooo mooo. Moo mo mooooo; moooo moo m mooo mooo mo mo mooo, moo

there is no telling how many things to be thought of, before the Pequod
moooo mo mo moooooo moo mooo mooooo mo mo moooooo mo, mooooo moo Mooooo

was fully equipped.
moo moooo mooooooo.




Every one knows what a multitude of things--beds, sauce-pans, knives
Moooo moo moooo mooo m moooooooo mo mooooo--mooo, moooo-mooo, mooooo

and forks, shovels and tongs, napkins, nut-crackers, and what not, are
moo moooo, moooooo moo moooo, moooooo, moo-mooooooo, moo mooo moo, moo

indispensable to the business of housekeeping. Just so with whaling,
moooooooooooo mo moo mooooooo mo mooooooooooo. Mooo mo mooo moooooo,

which necessitates a three-years' housekeeping upon the wide ocean,
moooo mooooooooooo m moooo-moooo' mooooooooooo mooo moo mooo moooo,

far from all grocers, costermongers, doctors, bakers, and bankers. And
moo mooo moo moooooo, moooooooooooo, moooooo, mooooo, moo moooooo. Moo

though this also holds true of merchant vessels, yet not by any means
mooooo mooo mooo moooo mooo mo mooooooo moooooo, moo moo mo moo moooo

to the same extent as with whalemen. For besides the great length of the
mo moo mooo mooooo mo mooo mooooooo. Moo moooooo moo moooo mooooo mo moo

whaling voyage, the numerous articles peculiar to the prosecution of the
moooooo mooooo, moo mooooooo mooooooo mooooooo mo moo moooooooooo mo moo

fishery, and the impossibility of replacing them at the remote harbors
moooooo, moo moo moooooooooooo mo moooooooo mooo mo moo mooooo moooooo

usually frequented, it must be remembered, that of all ships, whaling
moooooo mooooooooo, mo mooo mo mooooooooo, mooo mo moo moooo, moooooo

vessels are the most exposed to accidents of all kinds, and especially
moooooo moo moo mooo moooooo mo moooooooo mo moo moooo, moo mooooooooo

to the destruction and loss of the very things upon which the success of
mo moo moooooooooo moo mooo mo moo mooo mooooo mooo moooo moo moooooo mo

the voyage most depends. Hence, the spare boats, spare spars, and spare
moo mooooo mooo moooooo. Moooo, moo moooo moooo, moooo moooo, moo moooo

lines and harpoons, and spare everythings, almost, but a spare Captain
moooo moo mooooooo, moo moooo moooooooooo, mooooo, moo m moooo Moooooo

and duplicate ship.
moo moooooooo mooo.




At the period of our arrival at the Island, the heaviest storage of the
Mo moo mooooo mo moo moooooo mo moo Mooooo, moo mooooooo moooooo mo moo

Pequod had been almost completed; comprising her beef, bread, water,
Mooooo moo mooo mooooo moooooooo; mooooooooo moo mooo, moooo, moooo,

fuel, and iron hoops and staves. But, as before hinted, for some time
mooo, moo mooo moooo moo mooooo. Moo, mo mooooo mooooo, moo mooo mooo

there was a continual fetching and carrying on board of divers odds and
moooo moo m moooooooo mooooooo moo mooooooo mo moooo mo mooooo mooo moo

ends of things, both large and small.
mooo mo mooooo, mooo moooo moo moooo.




Chief among those who did this fetching and carrying was Captain
Moooo moooo moooo moo moo mooo mooooooo moo mooooooo moo Moooooo

Bildad's sister, a lean old lady of a most determined and indefatigable
Mooooo'm mooooo, m mooo moo mooo mo m mooo mooooooooo moo moooooooooooo

spirit, but withal very kindhearted, who seemed resolved that, if SHE
mooooo, moo mooooo mooo moooooooooo, moo mooooo mooooooo mooo, mo MOO

could help it, nothing should be found wanting in the Pequod, after once
moooo mooo mo, moooooo mooooo mo moooo moooooo mo moo Mooooo, moooo mooo

fairly getting to sea. At one time she would come on board with a jar
mooooo moooooo mo moo. Mo moo mooo moo moooo mooo mo moooo mooo m moo

of pickles for the steward's pantry; another time with a bunch of quills
mo moooooo moo moo moooooo'm mooooo; moooooo mooo mooo m moooo mo mooooo

for the chief mate's desk, where he kept his log; a third time with a
moo moo moooo mooo'm mooo, moooo mo mooo moo moo; m moooo mooo mooo m

roll of flannel for the small of some one's rheumatic back. Never did
mooo mo moooooo moo moo moooo mo mooo moo'm moooooooo mooo. Moooo moo

any woman better deserve her name, which was Charity--Aunt Charity, as
moo moooo mooooo moooooo moo mooo, moooo moo Moooooo--Mooo Moooooo, mo

everybody called her. And like a sister of charity did this charitable
moooooooo mooooo moo. Moo mooo m mooooo mo moooooo moo mooo mooooooooo

Aunt Charity bustle about hither and thither, ready to turn her hand
Mooo Moooooo mooooo moooo mooooo moo moooooo, moooo mo mooo moo mooo

and heart to anything that promised to yield safety, comfort, and
moo moooo mo mooooooo mooo mooooooo mo moooo mooooo, moooooo, moo

consolation to all on board a ship in which her beloved brother
moooooooooo mo moo mo moooo m mooo mo moooo moo moooooo moooooo

Bildad was concerned, and in which she herself owned a score or two of
Mooooo moo moooooooo, moo mo moooo moo moooooo moooo m moooo mo moo mo

well-saved dollars.
mooo-moooo moooooo.




But it was startling to see this excellent hearted Quakeress coming on
Moo mo moo moooooooo mo moo mooo moooooooo moooooo Moooooooo mooooo mo

board, as she did the last day, with a long oil-ladle in one hand, and
moooo, mo moo moo moo mooo moo, mooo m mooo moo-moooo mo moo mooo, moo

a still longer whaling lance in the other. Nor was Bildad himself nor
m moooo mooooo moooooo moooo mo moo moooo. Moo moo Mooooo moooooo moo

Captain Peleg at all backward. As for Bildad, he carried about with him
Moooooo Moooo mo moo mooooooo. Mo moo Mooooo, mo moooooo moooo mooo moo

a long list of the articles needed, and at every fresh arrival, down
m mooo mooo mo moo mooooooo mooooo, moo mo moooo moooo moooooo, mooo

went his mark opposite that article upon the paper. Every once in a
mooo moo mooo mooooooo mooo moooooo mooo moo moooo. Moooo mooo mo m

while Peleg came hobbling out of his whalebone den, roaring at the men
moooo Moooo mooo mooooooo moo mo moo moooooooo moo, moooooo mo moo moo

down the hatchways, roaring up to the riggers at the mast-head, and then
mooo moo moooooooo, moooooo mo mo moo moooooo mo moo mooo-mooo, moo mooo

concluded by roaring back into his wigwam.
moooooooo mo moooooo mooo mooo moo mooooo.




During these days of preparation, Queequeg and I often visited the
Mooooo moooo mooo mo moooooooooo, Mooooooo moo M moooo moooooo moo

craft, and as often I asked about Captain Ahab, and how he was, and when
moooo, moo mo moooo M moooo moooo Moooooo Mooo, moo moo mo moo, moo mooo

he was going to come on board his ship. To these questions they would
mo moo moooo mo mooo mo moooo moo mooo. Mo moooo moooooooo mooo moooo

answer, that he was getting better and better, and was expected aboard
mooooo, mooo mo moo moooooo mooooo moo mooooo, moo moo mooooooo mooooo

every day; meantime, the two captains, Peleg and Bildad, could attend
moooo moo; mooooooo, moo moo mooooooo, Moooo moo Mooooo, moooo mooooo

to everything necessary to fit the vessel for the voyage. If I had been
mo mooooooooo moooooooo mo moo moo mooooo moo moo mooooo. Mo M moo mooo

downright honest with myself, I would have seen very plainly in my heart
moooooooo mooooo mooo mooooo, M moooo mooo mooo mooo moooooo mo mo moooo

that I did but half fancy being committed this way to so long a voyage,
mooo M moo moo mooo moooo moooo moooooooo mooo moo mo mo mooo m mooooo,

without once laying my eyes on the man who was to be the absolute
moooooo mooo mooooo mo mooo mo moo moo moo moo mo mo moo mooooooo

dictator of it, so soon as the ship sailed out upon the open sea.
mooooooo mo mo, mo mooo mo moo mooo mooooo moo mooo moo mooo moo.

But when a man suspects any wrong, it sometimes happens that if he be
Moo mooo m moo mooooooo moo moooo, mo moooooooo moooooo mooo mo mo mo

already involved in the matter, he insensibly strives to cover up his
moooooo mooooooo mo moo mooooo, mo mooooooooo moooooo mo moooo mo moo

suspicions even from himself. And much this way it was with me. I said
mooooooooo mooo mooo moooooo. Moo mooo mooo moo mo moo mooo mo. M mooo

nothing, and tried to think nothing.
moooooo, moo moooo mo moooo moooooo.




At last it was given out that some time next day the ship would
Mo mooo mo moo moooo moo mooo mooo mooo mooo moo moo mooo moooo

certainly sail. So next morning, Queequeg and I took a very early start.
moooooooo mooo. Mo mooo moooooo, Mooooooo moo M mooo m mooo moooo moooo.










CHAPTER 21. Going Aboard.
MOOOOOO mo. Moooo Mooooo.







It was nearly six o'clock, but only grey imperfect misty dawn, when we
Mo moo mooooo moo m'moooo, moo mooo mooo moooooooo moooo mooo, mooo mo

drew nigh the wharf.
mooo mooo moo moooo.




"There are some sailors running ahead there, if I see right," said I to
"Moooo moo mooo moooooo moooooo moooo moooo, mo M moo moooo," mooo M mo

Queequeg, "it can't be shadows; she's off by sunrise, I guess; come on!"
Mooooooo, "mo moo'm mo moooooo; moo'm moo mo moooooo, M moooo; mooo mo!"




"Avast!" cried a voice, whose owner at the same time coming close behind
"Moooo!" moooo m moooo, moooo moooo mo moo mooo mooo mooooo moooo mooooo

us, laid a hand upon both our shoulders, and then insinuating himself
mo, mooo m mooo mooo mooo moo moooooooo, moo mooo moooooooooo moooooo

between us, stood stooping forward a little, in the uncertain twilight,
moooooo mo, moooo mooooooo moooooo m mooooo, mo moo moooooooo mooooooo,

strangely peering from Queequeg to me. It was Elijah.
moooooooo moooooo mooo Mooooooo mo mo. Mo moo Mooooo.




"Going aboard?"
"Moooo mooooo?"




"Hands off, will you," said I.
"Moooo moo, mooo moo," mooo M.




"Lookee here," said Queequeg, shaking himself, "go 'way!"
"Mooooo mooo," mooo Mooooooo, moooooo moooooo, "mo 'moo!"




"Ain't going aboard, then?"
"Moo'm moooo mooooo, mooo?"




"Yes, we are," said I, "but what business is that of yours? Do you know,
"Moo, mo moo," mooo M, "moo mooo mooooooo mo mooo mo moooo? Mo moo mooo,

Mr. Elijah, that I consider you a little impertinent?"
Mo. Mooooo, mooo M mooooooo moo m mooooo moooooooooo?"




"No, no, no; I wasn't aware of that," said Elijah, slowly and
"Mo, mo, mo; M mooo'm moooo mo mooo," mooo Mooooo, mooooo moo

wonderingly looking from me to Queequeg, with the most unaccountable
moooooooooo moooooo mooo mo mo Mooooooo, mooo moo mooo moooooooooooo

glances.
moooooo.




"Elijah," said I, "you will oblige my friend and me by withdrawing. We
"Mooooo," mooo M, "moo mooo mooooo mo mooooo moo mo mo moooooooooo. Mo

are going to the Indian and Pacific Oceans, and would prefer not to be
moo moooo mo moo Mooooo moo Moooooo Mooooo, moo moooo mooooo moo mo mo

detained."
mooooooo."




"Ye be, be ye? Coming back afore breakfast?"
"Mo mo, mo mo? Mooooo mooo moooo moooooooo?"




"He's cracked, Queequeg," said I, "come on."
"Mo'm moooooo, Mooooooo," mooo M, "mooo mo."




"Holloa!" cried stationary Elijah, hailing us when we had removed a few
"Mooooo!" moooo mooooooooo Mooooo, moooooo mo mooo mo moo moooooo m moo

paces.
moooo.




"Never mind him," said I, "Queequeg, come on."
"Moooo mooo moo," mooo M, "Mooooooo, mooo mo."




But he stole up to us again, and suddenly clapping his hand on my
Moo mo moooo mo mo mo moooo, moo mooooooo mooooooo moo mooo mo mo

shoulder, said--"Did ye see anything looking like men going towards that
mooooooo, mooo--"Moo mo moo mooooooo moooooo mooo moo moooo moooooo mooo

ship a while ago?"
mooo m moooo moo?"




Struck by this plain matter-of-fact question, I answered, saying, "Yes,
Mooooo mo mooo moooo mooooo-mo-mooo mooooooo, M mooooooo, mooooo, "Moo,

I thought I did see four or five men; but it was too dim to be sure."
M moooooo M moo moo mooo mo mooo moo; moo mo moo moo moo mo mo mooo."




"Very dim, very dim," said Elijah. "Morning to ye."
"Mooo moo, mooo moo," mooo Mooooo. "Moooooo mo mo."




Once more we quitted him; but once more he came softly after us; and
Mooo mooo mo moooooo moo; moo mooo mooo mo mooo mooooo moooo mo; moo

touching my shoulder again, said, "See if you can find 'em now, will ye?
mooooooo mo mooooooo moooo, mooo, "Moo mo moo moo mooo 'mo moo, mooo mo?




"Find who?"
"Mooo moo?"




"Morning to ye! morning to ye!" he rejoined, again moving off. "Oh! I
"Moooooo mo mo! moooooo mo mo!" mo mooooooo, moooo mooooo moo. "Mo! M

was going to warn ye against--but never mind, never mind--it's all one,
moo moooo mo mooo mo moooooo--moo moooo mooo, moooo mooo--mo'm moo moo,

all in the family too;--sharp frost this morning, ain't it? Good-bye to
moo mo moo mooooo moo;--moooo moooo mooo moooooo, moo'm mo? Mooo-moo mo

ye. Shan't see ye again very soon, I guess; unless it's before the Grand
mo. Mooo'm moo mo moooo mooo mooo, M moooo; mooooo mo'm mooooo moo Moooo

Jury." And with these cracked words he finally departed, leaving me, for
Mooo." Moo mooo moooo moooooo moooo mo moooooo mooooooo, moooooo mo, moo

the moment, in no small wonderment at his frantic impudence.
moo mooooo, mo mo moooo mooooooooo mo moo moooooo moooooooo.




At last, stepping on board the Pequod, we found everything in profound
Mo mooo, mooooooo mo moooo moo Mooooo, mo moooo mooooooooo mo mooooooo

quiet, not a soul moving. The cabin entrance was locked within; the
moooo, moo m mooo mooooo. Moo moooo mooooooo moo mooooo mooooo; moo

hatches were all on, and lumbered with coils of rigging. Going forward
moooooo mooo moo mo, moo mooooooo mooo moooo mo moooooo. Moooo moooooo

to the forecastle, we found the slide of the scuttle open. Seeing a
mo moo mooooooooo, mo moooo moo moooo mo moo moooooo mooo. Mooooo m

light, we went down, and found only an old rigger there, wrapped in a
moooo, mo mooo mooo, moo moooo mooo mo moo mooooo moooo, moooooo mo m

tattered pea-jacket. He was thrown at whole length upon two chests, his
mooooooo moo-mooooo. Mo moo mooooo mo moooo mooooo mooo moo mooooo, moo

face downwards and inclosed in his folded arms. The profoundest slumber
mooo moooooooo moo mooooooo mo moo mooooo mooo. Moo moooooooooo moooooo

slept upon him.
moooo mooo moo.




"Those sailors we saw, Queequeg, where can they have gone to?" said I,
"Moooo moooooo mo moo, Mooooooo, moooo moo mooo mooo mooo mo?" mooo M,

looking dubiously at the sleeper. But it seemed that, when on the wharf,
moooooo moooooooo mo moo moooooo. Moo mo mooooo mooo, mooo mo moo moooo,

Queequeg had not at all noticed what I now alluded to; hence I would
Mooooooo moo moo mo moo moooooo mooo M moo moooooo mo; moooo M moooo

have thought myself to have been optically deceived in that matter,
mooo moooooo mooooo mo mooo mooo moooooooo mooooooo mo mooo mooooo,

were it not for Elijah's otherwise inexplicable question. But I beat the
mooo mo moo moo Mooooo'm moooooooo mooooooooooo mooooooo. Moo M mooo moo

thing down; and again marking the sleeper, jocularly hinted to Queequeg
moooo mooo; moo moooo moooooo moo moooooo, moooooooo mooooo mo Mooooooo

that perhaps we had best sit up with the body; telling him to establish
mooo moooooo mo moo mooo moo mo mooo moo mooo; moooooo moo mo moooooooo

himself accordingly. He put his hand upon the sleeper's rear, as though
moooooo moooooooooo. Mo moo moo mooo mooo moo moooooo'm mooo, mo mooooo

feeling if it was soft enough; and then, without more ado, sat quietly
moooooo mo mo moo mooo mooooo; moo mooo, moooooo mooo moo, moo moooooo

down there.
mooo moooo.




"Gracious! Queequeg, don't sit there," said I.
"Mooooooo! Mooooooo, moo'm moo moooo," mooo M.




"Oh! perry dood seat," said Queequeg, "my country way; won't hurt him
"Mo! moooo mooo mooo," mooo Mooooooo, "mo moooooo moo; moo'm mooo moo

face."
mooo."




"Face!" said I, "call that his face? very benevolent countenance then;
"Mooo!" mooo M, "mooo mooo moo mooo? mooo mooooooooo moooooooooo mooo;

but how hard he breathes, he's heaving himself; get off, Queequeg, you
moo moo mooo mo mooooooo, mo'm moooooo moooooo; moo moo, Mooooooo, moo

are heavy, it's grinding the face of the poor. Get off, Queequeg! Look,
moo moooo, mo'm mooooooo moo mooo mo moo mooo. Moo moo, Mooooooo! Mooo,

he'll twitch you off soon. I wonder he don't wake."
mo'mo mooooo moo moo mooo. M mooooo mo moo'm mooo."




Queequeg removed himself to just beyond the head of the sleeper, and
Mooooooo moooooo moooooo mo mooo mooooo moo mooo mo moo moooooo, moo

lighted his tomahawk pipe. I sat at the feet. We kept the pipe passing
moooooo moo mooooooo mooo. M moo mo moo mooo. Mo mooo moo mooo moooooo

over the sleeper, from one to the other. Meanwhile, upon questioning him
mooo moo moooooo, mooo moo mo moo moooo. Moooooooo, mooo moooooooooo moo

in his broken fashion, Queequeg gave me to understand that, in his
mo moo mooooo moooooo, Mooooooo mooo mo mo mooooooooo mooo, mo moo

land, owing to the absence of settees and sofas of all sorts, the king,
mooo, moooo mo moo moooooo mo moooooo moo moooo mo moo moooo, moo mooo,

chiefs, and great people generally, were in the custom of fattening some
mooooo, moo moooo mooooo moooooooo, mooo mo moo mooooo mo moooooooo mooo

of the lower orders for ottomans; and to furnish a house comfortably in
mo moo moooo mooooo moo mooooooo; moo mo moooooo m moooo moooooooooo mo

that respect, you had only to buy up eight or ten lazy fellows, and lay
mooo moooooo, moo moo mooo mo moo mo moooo mo moo mooo moooooo, moo moo

them round in the piers and alcoves. Besides, it was very convenient on
mooo moooo mo moo moooo moo moooooo. Moooooo, mo moo mooo mooooooooo mo

an excursion; much better than those garden-chairs which are convertible
mo moooooooo; mooo mooooo mooo moooo mooooo-mooooo moooo moo moooooooooo

into walking-sticks; upon occasion, a chief calling his attendant, and
mooo moooooo-mooooo; mooo mooooooo, m moooo moooooo moo moooooooo, moo

desiring him to make a settee of himself under a spreading tree, perhaps
mooooooo moo mo mooo m mooooo mo moooooo moooo m moooooooo mooo, moooooo

in some damp marshy place.
mo mooo mooo mooooo moooo.




While narrating these things, every time Queequeg received the tomahawk
Moooo moooooooo moooo mooooo, moooo mooo Mooooooo mooooooo moo mooooooo

from me, he flourished the hatchet-side of it over the sleeper's head.
mooo mo, mo mooooooooo moo moooooo-mooo mo mo mooo moo moooooo'm mooo.




"What's that for, Queequeg?"
"Mooo'm mooo moo, Mooooooo?"




"Perry easy, kill-e; oh! perry easy!"
"Moooo mooo, mooo-m; mo! moooo mooo!"




He was going on with some wild reminiscences about his tomahawk-pipe,
Mo moo moooo mo mooo mooo mooo moooooooooooo moooo moo mooooooo-mooo,

which, it seemed, had in its two uses both brained his foes and soothed
moooo, mo mooooo, moo mo moo moo mooo mooo moooooo moo mooo moo moooooo

his soul, when we were directly attracted to the sleeping rigger. The
moo mooo, mooo mo mooo mooooooo moooooooo mo moo mooooooo mooooo. Moo

strong vapour now completely filling the contracted hole, it began
mooooo mooooo moo mooooooooo moooooo moo mooooooooo mooo, mo moooo

to tell upon him. He breathed with a sort of muffledness; then seemed
mo mooo mooo moo. Mo mooooooo mooo m mooo mo moooooooooo; mooo mooooo

troubled in the nose; then revolved over once or twice; then sat up and
mooooooo mo moo mooo; mooo mooooooo mooo mooo mo moooo; mooo moo mo moo

rubbed his eyes.
mooooo moo mooo.




"Holloa!" he breathed at last, "who be ye smokers?"
"Mooooo!" mo mooooooo mo mooo, "moo mo mo moooooo?"




"Shipped men," answered I, "when does she sail?"
"Moooooo moo," mooooooo M, "mooo mooo moo mooo?"




"Aye, aye, ye are going in her, be ye? She sails to-day. The Captain
"Moo, moo, mo moo moooo mo moo, mo mo? Moo moooo mo-moo. Moo Moooooo

came aboard last night."
mooo mooooo mooo moooo."




"What Captain?--Ahab?"
"Mooo Moooooo?--Mooo?"




"Who but him indeed?"
"Moo moo moo mooooo?"




I was going to ask him some further questions concerning Ahab, when we
M moo moooo mo moo moo mooo moooooo moooooooo mooooooooo Mooo, mooo mo

heard a noise on deck.
moooo m moooo mo mooo.




"Holloa! Starbuck's astir," said the rigger. "He's a lively chief mate,
"Mooooo! Mooooooo'm moooo," mooo moo mooooo. "Mo'm m mooooo moooo mooo,

that; good man, and a pious; but all alive now, I must turn to." And so
mooo; mooo moo, moo m moooo; moo moo moooo moo, M mooo mooo mo." Moo mo

saying he went on deck, and we followed.
mooooo mo mooo mo mooo, moo mo mooooooo.




It was now clear sunrise. Soon the crew came on board in twos and
Mo moo moo moooo moooooo. Mooo moo mooo mooo mo moooo mo mooo moo

threes; the riggers bestirred themselves; the mates were actively
mooooo; moo moooooo moooooooo mooooooooo; moo moooo mooo mooooooo

engaged; and several of the shore people were busy in bringing various
moooooo; moo moooooo mo moo moooo mooooo mooo mooo mo mooooooo moooooo

last things on board. Meanwhile Captain Ahab remained invisibly
mooo mooooo mo moooo. Moooooooo Moooooo Mooo mooooooo moooooooo

enshrined within his cabin.
moooooooo mooooo moo moooo.










CHAPTER 22. Merry Christmas.
MOOOOOO mo. Moooo Moooooooo.







At length, towards noon, upon the final dismissal of the ship's riggers,
Mo mooooo, moooooo mooo, mooo moo moooo moooooooo mo moo mooo'm moooooo,

and after the Pequod had been hauled out from the wharf, and after the
moo moooo moo Mooooo moo mooo mooooo moo mooo moo moooo, moo moooo moo

ever-thoughtful Charity had come off in a whale-boat, with her last
mooo-mooooooooo Moooooo moo mooo moo mo m moooo-mooo, mooo moo mooo

gift--a night-cap for Stubb, the second mate, her brother-in-law, and a
mooo--m moooo-moo moo Moooo, moo mooooo mooo, moo moooooo-mo-moo, moo m

spare Bible for the steward--after all this, the two Captains, Peleg
moooo Moooo moo moo moooooo--moooo moo mooo, moo moo Mooooooo, Moooo

and Bildad, issued from the cabin, and turning to the chief mate, Peleg
moo Mooooo, mooooo mooo moo moooo, moo moooooo mo moo moooo mooo, Moooo

said:
mooo:




"Now, Mr. Starbuck, are you sure everything is right? Captain Ahab is
"Moo, Mo. Mooooooo, moo moo mooo mooooooooo mo moooo? Moooooo Mooo mo

all ready--just spoke to him--nothing more to be got from shore, eh?
moo moooo--mooo moooo mo moo--moooooo mooo mo mo moo mooo moooo, mo?

Well, call all hands, then. Muster 'em aft here--blast 'em!"
Mooo, mooo moo moooo, mooo. Mooooo 'mo moo mooo--moooo 'mo!"




"No need of profane words, however great the hurry, Peleg," said Bildad,
"Mo mooo mo moooooo moooo, moooooo moooo moo moooo, Moooo," mooo Mooooo,

"but away with thee, friend Starbuck, and do our bidding."
"moo mooo mooo mooo, mooooo Mooooooo, moo mo moo moooooo."




How now! Here upon the very point of starting for the voyage, Captain
Moo moo! Mooo mooo moo mooo moooo mo mooooooo moo moo mooooo, Moooooo

Peleg and Captain Bildad were going it with a high hand on the
Moooo moo Moooooo Mooooo mooo moooo mo mooo m mooo mooo mo moo

quarter-deck, just as if they were to be joint-commanders at sea, as
moooooo-mooo, mooo mo mo mooo mooo mo mo moooo-mooooooooo mo moo, mo

well as to all appearances in port. And, as for Captain Ahab, no sign of
mooo mo mo moo moooooooooo mo mooo. Moo, mo moo Moooooo Mooo, mo mooo mo

him was yet to be seen; only, they said he was in the cabin. But then,
moo moo moo mo mo mooo; mooo, mooo mooo mo moo mo moo moooo. Moo mooo,

the idea was, that his presence was by no means necessary in getting the
moo mooo moo, mooo moo mooooooo moo mo mo moooo moooooooo mo moooooo moo

ship under weigh, and steering her well out to sea. Indeed, as that was
mooo moooo moooo, moo mooooooo moo mooo moo mo moo. Mooooo, mo mooo moo

not at all his proper business, but the pilot's; and as he was not
moo mo moo moo mooooo mooooooo, moo moo moooo'm; moo mo mo moo moo

yet completely recovered--so they said--therefore, Captain Ahab stayed
moo mooooooooo moooooooo--mo mooo mooo--moooooooo, Moooooo Mooo mooooo

below. And all this seemed natural enough; especially as in the merchant
moooo. Moo moo mooo mooooo moooooo mooooo; mooooooooo mo mo moo mooooooo

service many captains never show themselves on deck for a considerable
moooooo mooo mooooooo moooo mooo mooooooooo mo mooo moo m mooooooooooo

time after heaving up the anchor, but remain over the cabin table,
mooo moooo moooooo mo moo mooooo, moo mooooo mooo moo moooo moooo,

having a farewell merry-making with their shore friends, before they
mooooo m mooooooo moooo-mooooo mooo moooo moooo moooooo, mooooo mooo

quit the ship for good with the pilot.
mooo moo mooo moo mooo mooo moo moooo.




But there was not much chance to think over the matter, for Captain
Moo moooo moo moo mooo mooooo mo moooo mooo moo mooooo, moo Moooooo

Peleg was now all alive. He seemed to do most of the talking and
Moooo moo moo moo moooo. Mo mooooo mo mo mooo mo moo moooooo moo

commanding, and not Bildad.
mooooooooo, moo moo Mooooo.




"Aft here, ye sons of bachelors," he cried, as the sailors lingered at
"Moo mooo, mo mooo mo moooooooo," mo moooo, mo moo moooooo mooooooo mo

the main-mast. "Mr. Starbuck, drive'em aft."
moo mooo-mooo. "Mo. Mooooooo, moooo'mo moo."




"Strike the tent there!"--was the next order. As I hinted before, this
"Mooooo moo mooo moooo!"--moo moo mooo moooo. Mo M mooooo mooooo, mooo

whalebone marquee was never pitched except in port; and on board the
moooooooo moooooo moo moooo moooooo mooooo mo mooo; moo mo moooo moo

Pequod, for thirty years, the order to strike the tent was well known to
Mooooo, moo mooooo moooo, moo moooo mo mooooo moo mooo moo mooo moooo mo

be the next thing to heaving up the anchor.
mo moo mooo moooo mo moooooo mo moo mooooo.




"Man the capstan! Blood and thunder!--jump!"--was the next command, and
"Moo moo moooooo! Moooo moo moooooo!--mooo!"--moo moo mooo moooooo, moo

the crew sprang for the handspikes.
moo mooo mooooo moo moo mooooooooo.




Now in getting under weigh, the station generally occupied by the pilot
Moo mo moooooo moooo moooo, moo moooooo moooooooo mooooooo mo moo moooo

is the forward part of the ship. And here Bildad, who, with Peleg, be it
mo moo moooooo mooo mo moo mooo. Moo mooo Mooooo, moo, mooo Moooo, mo mo

known, in addition to his other officers, was one of the licensed pilots
moooo, mo mooooooo mo moo moooo mooooooo, moo moo mo moo mooooooo mooooo

of the port--he being suspected to have got himself made a pilot in
mo moo mooo--mo moooo moooooooo mo mooo moo moooooo mooo m moooo mo

order to save the Nantucket pilot-fee to all the ships he was concerned
moooo mo mooo moo Moooooooo moooo-moo mo moo moo moooo mo moo moooooooo

in, for he never piloted any other craft--Bildad, I say, might now
mo, moo mo moooo moooooo moo moooo moooo--Mooooo, M moo, moooo moo

be seen actively engaged in looking over the bows for the approaching
mo mooo mooooooo moooooo mo moooooo mooo moo mooo moo moo moooooooooo

anchor, and at intervals singing what seemed a dismal stave of psalmody,
mooooo, moo mo moooooooo moooooo mooo mooooo m mooooo moooo mo mooooooo,

to cheer the hands at the windlass, who roared forth some sort of
mo moooo moo moooo mo moo mooooooo, moo mooooo moooo mooo mooo mo

a chorus about the girls in Booble Alley, with hearty good will.
m mooooo moooo moo moooo mo Mooooo Moooo, mooo mooooo mooo mooo.

Nevertheless, not three days previous, Bildad had told them that no
Mooooooooooo, moo moooo mooo mooooooo, Mooooo moo mooo mooo mooo mo

profane songs would be allowed on board the Pequod, particularly in
moooooo moooo moooo mo moooooo mo moooo moo Mooooo, mooooooooooo mo

getting under weigh; and Charity, his sister, had placed a small choice
moooooo moooo moooo; moo Moooooo, moo mooooo, moo mooooo m moooo mooooo

copy of Watts in each seaman's berth.
mooo mo Moooo mo mooo mooooo'm moooo.




Meantime, overseeing the other part of the ship, Captain Peleg ripped
Mooooooo, mooooooooo moo moooo mooo mo moo mooo, Moooooo Moooo mooooo

and swore astern in the most frightful manner. I almost thought he would
moo moooo mooooo mo moo mooo moooooooo mooooo. M mooooo moooooo mo moooo

sink the ship before the anchor could be got up; involuntarily I paused
mooo moo mooo mooooo moo mooooo moooo mo moo mo; moooooooooooo M mooooo

on my handspike, and told Queequeg to do the same, thinking of the
mo mo moooooooo, moo mooo Mooooooo mo mo moo mooo, mooooooo mo moo

perils we both ran, in starting on the voyage with such a devil for a
mooooo mo mooo moo, mo mooooooo mo moo mooooo mooo mooo m moooo moo m

pilot. I was comforting myself, however, with the thought that in pious
moooo. M moo mooooooooo mooooo, moooooo, mooo moo moooooo mooo mo moooo

Bildad might be found some salvation, spite of his seven hundred and
Mooooo moooo mo moooo mooo moooooooo, moooo mo moo moooo moooooo moo

seventy-seventh lay; when I felt a sudden sharp poke in my rear, and
moooooo-moooooo moo; mooo M mooo m mooooo moooo mooo mo mo mooo, moo

turning round, was horrified at the apparition of Captain Peleg in the
moooooo moooo, moo moooooooo mo moo mooooooooo mo Moooooo Moooo mo moo

act of withdrawing his leg from my immediate vicinity. That was my first
moo mo moooooooooo moo moo mooo mo moooooooo mooooooo. Mooo moo mo moooo

kick.
mooo.




"Is that the way they heave in the marchant service?" he roared.
"Mo mooo moo moo mooo moooo mo moo mooooooo moooooo?" mo mooooo.

"Spring, thou sheep-head; spring, and break thy backbone! Why don't ye
"Mooooo, mooo moooo-mooo; mooooo, moo moooo moo mooooooo! Moo moo'm mo

spring, I say, all of ye--spring! Quohog! spring, thou chap with the red
mooooo, M moo, moo mo mo--mooooo! Mooooo! mooooo, mooo mooo mooo moo moo

whiskers; spring there, Scotch-cap; spring, thou green pants. Spring, I
mooooooo; mooooo moooo, Mooooo-moo; mooooo, mooo moooo moooo. Mooooo, M

say, all of ye, and spring your eyes out!" And so saying, he moved
moo, moo mo mo, moo mooooo mooo mooo moo!" Moo mo mooooo, mo moooo

along the windlass, here and there using his leg very freely, while
moooo moo mooooooo, mooo moo moooo moooo moo moo mooo mooooo, moooo

imperturbable Bildad kept leading off with his psalmody. Thinks I,
moooooooooooo Mooooo mooo moooooo moo mooo moo mooooooo. Mooooo M,

Captain Peleg must have been drinking something to-day.
Moooooo Moooo mooo mooo mooo mooooooo moooooooo mo-moo.




At last the anchor was up, the sails were set, and off we glided. It
Mo mooo moo mooooo moo mo, moo moooo mooo moo, moo moo mo mooooo. Mo

was a short, cold Christmas; and as the short northern day merged into
moo m moooo, mooo Moooooooo; moo mo moo moooo mooooooo moo mooooo mooo

night, we found ourselves almost broad upon the wintry ocean, whose
moooo, mo moooo moooooooo mooooo moooo mooo moo mooooo moooo, moooo

freezing spray cased us in ice, as in polished armor. The long rows of
mooooooo moooo moooo mo mo moo, mo mo mooooooo moooo. Moo mooo mooo mo

teeth on the bulwarks glistened in the moonlight; and like the white
moooo mo moo mooooooo moooooooo mo moo moooooooo; moo mooo moo moooo

ivory tusks of some huge elephant, vast curving icicles depended from
moooo moooo mo mooo mooo mooooooo, mooo moooooo moooooo mooooooo mooo

the bows.
moo mooo.




Lank Bildad, as pilot, headed the first watch, and ever and anon, as the
Mooo Mooooo, mo moooo, mooooo moo moooo moooo, moo mooo moo mooo, mo moo

old craft deep dived into the green seas, and sent the shivering frost
moo moooo mooo moooo mooo moo moooo mooo, moo mooo moo moooooooo moooo

all over her, and the winds howled, and the cordage rang, his steady
moo mooo moo, moo moo moooo mooooo, moo moo moooooo mooo, moo mooooo

notes were heard,--
moooo mooo moooo,--




"Sweet fields beyond the swelling flood, Stand dressed in living green.
"Moooo mooooo mooooo moo mooooooo moooo, Moooo moooooo mo mooooo moooo.

So to the Jews old Canaan stood, While Jordan rolled between."
Mo mo moo Mooo moo Mooooo moooo, Moooo Mooooo mooooo moooooo."







Never did those sweet words sound more sweetly to me than then. They
Moooo moo moooo moooo moooo moooo mooo moooooo mo mo mooo mooo. Mooo

were full of hope and fruition. Spite of this frigid winter night in the
mooo mooo mo mooo moo mooooooo. Moooo mo mooo mooooo mooooo moooo mo moo

boisterous Atlantic, spite of my wet feet and wetter jacket, there was
mooooooooo Mooooooo, moooo mo mo moo mooo moo mooooo mooooo, moooo moo

yet, it then seemed to me, many a pleasant haven in store; and meads
moo, mo mooo mooooo mo mo, mooo m mooooooo moooo mo moooo; moo moooo

and glades so eternally vernal, that the grass shot up by the spring,
moo mooooo mo moooooooo mooooo, mooo moo moooo mooo mo mo moo mooooo,

untrodden, unwilted, remains at midsummer.
moooooooo, mooooooo, moooooo mo moooooooo.




At last we gained such an offing, that the two pilots were needed
Mo mooo mo mooooo mooo mo mooooo, mooo moo moo mooooo mooo mooooo

no longer. The stout sail-boat that had accompanied us began ranging
mo mooooo. Moo moooo mooo-mooo mooo moo moooooooooo mo moooo moooooo

alongside.
moooooooo.




It was curious and not unpleasing, how Peleg and Bildad were affected at
Mo moo moooooo moo moo mooooooooo, moo Moooo moo Mooooo mooo mooooooo mo

this juncture, especially Captain Bildad. For loath to depart, yet;
mooo mooooooo, mooooooooo Moooooo Mooooo. Moo moooo mo mooooo, moo;

very loath to leave, for good, a ship bound on so long and perilous a
mooo moooo mo moooo, moo mooo, m mooo moooo mo mo mooo moo mooooooo m

voyage--beyond both stormy Capes; a ship in which some thousands of
mooooo--mooooo mooo mooooo Moooo; m mooo mo moooo mooo moooooooo mo

his hard earned dollars were invested; a ship, in which an old shipmate
moo mooo mooooo moooooo mooo mooooooo; m mooo, mo moooo mo moo mooooooo

sailed as captain; a man almost as old as he, once more starting to
mooooo mo moooooo; m moo mooooo mo moo mo mo, mooo mooo mooooooo mo

encounter all the terrors of the pitiless jaw; loath to say good-bye to
moooooooo moo moo moooooo mo moo mooooooo moo; moooo mo moo mooo-moo mo

a thing so every way brimful of every interest to him,--poor old Bildad
m moooo mo moooo moo moooooo mo moooo mooooooo mo moo,--mooo moo Mooooo

lingered long; paced the deck with anxious strides; ran down into the
mooooooo mooo; moooo moo mooo mooo moooooo moooooo; moo mooo mooo moo

cabin to speak another farewell word there; again came on deck, and
moooo mo moooo moooooo mooooooo mooo moooo; moooo mooo mo mooo, moo

looked to windward; looked towards the wide and endless waters, only
mooooo mo mooooooo; mooooo moooooo moo mooo moo moooooo mooooo, mooo

bounded by the far-off unseen Eastern Continents; looked towards
moooooo mo moo moo-moo mooooo Moooooo Mooooooooo; mooooo moooooo

the land; looked aloft; looked right and left; looked everywhere
moo mooo; mooooo moooo; mooooo moooo moo mooo; mooooo mooooooooo

and nowhere; and at last, mechanically coiling a rope upon its pin,
moo moooooo; moo mo mooo, mooooooooooo moooooo m mooo mooo moo moo,

convulsively grasped stout Peleg by the hand, and holding up a lantern,
mooooooooooo moooooo moooo Moooo mo moo mooo, moo moooooo mo m moooooo,

for a moment stood gazing heroically in his face, as much as to say,
moo m mooooo moooo mooooo mooooooooo mo moo mooo, mo mooo mo mo moo,

"Nevertheless, friend Peleg, I can stand it; yes, I can."
"Mooooooooooo, mooooo Moooo, M moo moooo mo; moo, M moo."




As for Peleg himself, he took it more like a philosopher; but for all
Mo moo Moooo moooooo, mo mooo mo mooo mooo m moooooooooo; moo moo moo

his philosophy, there was a tear twinkling in his eye, when the lantern
moo mooooooooo, moooo moo m mooo moooooooo mo moo moo, mooo moo moooooo

came too near. And he, too, did not a little run from cabin to deck--now
mooo moo mooo. Moo mo, moo, moo moo m mooooo moo mooo moooo mo mooo--moo

a word below, and now a word with Starbuck, the chief mate.
m mooo moooo, moo moo m mooo mooo Mooooooo, moo moooo mooo.




But, at last, he turned to his comrade, with a final sort of look
Moo, mo mooo, mo mooooo mo moo moooooo, mooo m moooo mooo mo mooo

about him,--"Captain Bildad--come, old shipmate, we must go. Back the
moooo moo,--"Moooooo Mooooo--mooo, moo mooooooo, mo mooo mo. Mooo moo

main-yard there! Boat ahoy! Stand by to come close alongside, now!
mooo-mooo moooo! Mooo mooo! Moooo mo mo mooo moooo moooooooo, moo!

Careful, careful!--come, Bildad, boy--say your last. Luck to ye,
Moooooo, moooooo!--mooo, Mooooo, moo--moo mooo mooo. Mooo mo mo,

Starbuck--luck to ye, Mr. Stubb--luck to ye, Mr. Flask--good-bye and
Mooooooo--mooo mo mo, Mo. Moooo--mooo mo mo, Mo. Moooo--mooo-moo moo

good luck to ye all--and this day three years I'll have a hot supper
mooo mooo mo mo moo--moo mooo moo moooo moooo M'mo mooo m moo mooooo

smoking for ye in old Nantucket. Hurrah and away!"
moooooo moo mo mo moo Moooooooo. Mooooo moo mooo!"




"God bless ye, and have ye in His holy keeping, men," murmured old
"Moo moooo mo, moo mooo mo mo Moo mooo moooooo, moo," mooooooo moo

Bildad, almost incoherently. "I hope ye'll have fine weather now, so
Mooooo, mooooo mooooooooooo. "M mooo mo'mo mooo mooo moooooo moo, mo

that Captain Ahab may soon be moving among ye--a pleasant sun is all
mooo Moooooo Mooo moo mooo mo mooooo moooo mo--m mooooooo moo mo moo

he needs, and ye'll have plenty of them in the tropic voyage ye go.
mo moooo, moo mo'mo mooo mooooo mo mooo mo moo mooooo mooooo mo mo.

Be careful in the hunt, ye mates. Don't stave the boats needlessly,
Mo moooooo mo moo mooo, mo moooo. Moo'm moooo moo moooo mooooooooo,

ye harpooneers; good white cedar plank is raised full three per cent.
mo moooooooooo; mooo moooo moooo moooo mo mooooo mooo moooo moo mooo.

within the year. Don't forget your prayers, either. Mr. Starbuck, mind
mooooo moo mooo. Moo'm mooooo mooo moooooo, mooooo. Mo. Mooooooo, mooo

that cooper don't waste the spare staves. Oh! the sail-needles are in
mooo mooooo moo'm moooo moo moooo mooooo. Mo! moo mooo-moooooo moo mo

the green locker! Don't whale it too much a' Lord's days, men; but don't
moo moooo mooooo! Moo'm moooo mo moo mooo m' Mooo'm mooo, moo; moo moo'm

miss a fair chance either, that's rejecting Heaven's good gifts. Have an
mooo m mooo mooooo mooooo, mooo'm moooooooo Mooooo'm mooo moooo. Mooo mo

eye to the molasses tierce, Mr. Stubb; it was a little leaky, I thought.
moo mo moo mooooooo mooooo, Mo. Moooo; mo moo m mooooo moooo, M moooooo.

If ye touch at the islands, Mr. Flask, beware of fornication. Good-bye,
Mo mo moooo mo moo moooooo, Mo. Moooo, mooooo mo moooooooooo. Mooo-moo,

good-bye! Don't keep that cheese too long down in the hold, Mr.
mooo-moo! Moo'm mooo mooo mooooo moo mooo mooo mo moo mooo, Mo.

Starbuck; it'll spoil. Be careful with the butter--twenty cents the
Mooooooo; mo'mo moooo. Mo moooooo mooo moo mooooo--mooooo moooo moo

pound it was, and mind ye, if--"
moooo mo moo, moo mooo mo, mo--"




"Come, come, Captain Bildad; stop palavering,--away!" and with that,
"Mooo, mooo, Moooooo Mooooo; mooo mooooooooo,--mooo!" moo mooo mooo,

Peleg hurried him over the side, and both dropt into the boat.
Moooo moooooo moo mooo moo mooo, moo mooo moooo mooo moo mooo.




Ship and boat diverged; the cold, damp night breeze blew between; a
Mooo moo mooo mooooooo; moo mooo, mooo moooo mooooo mooo moooooo; m

screaming gull flew overhead; the two hulls wildly rolled; we gave
moooooooo mooo mooo mooooooo; moo moo moooo mooooo mooooo; mo mooo

three heavy-hearted cheers, and blindly plunged like fate into the lone
moooo moooo-moooooo mooooo, moo moooooo moooooo mooo mooo mooo moo mooo

Atlantic.
Mooooooo.










CHAPTER 23. The Lee Shore.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Moo Moooo.







Some chapters back, one Bulkington was spoken of, a tall, newlanded
Mooo mooooooo mooo, moo Mooooooooo moo mooooo mo, m mooo, moooooooo

mariner, encountered in New Bedford at the inn.
moooooo, moooooooooo mo Moo Moooooo mo moo moo.




When on that shivering winter's night, the Pequod thrust her vindictive
Mooo mo mooo moooooooo mooooo'm moooo, moo Mooooo mooooo moo mooooooooo

bows into the cold malicious waves, who should I see standing at her
mooo mooo moo mooo moooooooo moooo, moo mooooo M moo mooooooo mo moo

helm but Bulkington! I looked with sympathetic awe and fearfulness upon
mooo moo Mooooooooo! M mooooo mooo moooooooooo moo moo moooooooooo mooo

the man, who in mid-winter just landed from a four years' dangerous
moo moo, moo mo moo-mooooo mooo mooooo mooo m mooo moooo' moooooooo

voyage, could so unrestingly push off again for still another
mooooo, moooo mo moooooooooo mooo moo moooo moo moooo moooooo

tempestuous term. The land seemed scorching to his feet. Wonderfullest
moooooooooo mooo. Moo mooo mooooo moooooooo mo moo mooo. Moooooooooooo

things are ever the unmentionable; deep memories yield no epitaphs; this
mooooo moo mooo moo moooooooooooo; mooo mooooooo moooo mo mooooooo; mooo

six-inch chapter is the stoneless grave of Bulkington. Let me only say
moo-mooo moooooo mo moo moooooooo moooo mo Mooooooooo. Moo mo mooo moo

that it fared with him as with the storm-tossed ship, that miserably
mooo mo moooo mooo moo mo mooo moo moooo-mooooo mooo, mooo moooooooo

drives along the leeward land. The port would fain give succor; the port
mooooo moooo moo moooooo mooo. Moo mooo moooo mooo mooo mooooo; moo mooo

is pitiful; in the port is safety, comfort, hearthstone, supper, warm
mo moooooo; mo moo mooo mo mooooo, moooooo, moooooooooo, mooooo, mooo

blankets, friends, all that's kind to our mortalities. But in that gale,
mooooooo, moooooo, moo mooo'm mooo mo moo moooooooooo. Moo mo mooo mooo,

the port, the land, is that ship's direst jeopardy; she must fly all
moo mooo, moo mooo, mo mooo mooo'm mooooo mooooooo; moo mooo moo moo

hospitality; one touch of land, though it but graze the keel, would make
moooooooooo; moo moooo mo mooo, mooooo mo moo moooo moo mooo, moooo mooo

her shudder through and through. With all her might she crowds all sail
moo moooooo moooooo moo moooooo. Mooo moo moo moooo moo mooooo moo mooo

off shore; in so doing, fights 'gainst the very winds that fain would
moo moooo; mo mo moooo, mooooo 'mooooo moo mooo moooo mooo mooo moooo

blow her homeward; seeks all the lashed sea's landlessness again;
mooo moo mooooooo; moooo moo moo mooooo moo'm mooooooooooo moooo;

for refuge's sake forlornly rushing into peril; her only friend her
moo mooooo'm mooo moooooooo moooooo mooo moooo; moo mooo mooooo moo

bitterest foe!
moooooooo moo!




Know ye now, Bulkington? Glimpses do ye seem to see of that mortally
Mooo mo moo, Mooooooooo? Mooooooo mo mo mooo mo moo mo mooo mooooooo

intolerable truth; that all deep, earnest thinking is but the intrepid
moooooooooo moooo; mooo moo mooo, moooooo mooooooo mo moo moo mooooooo

effort of the soul to keep the open independence of her sea; while
mooooo mo moo mooo mo mooo moo mooo mooooooooooo mo moo moo; moooo

the wildest winds of heaven and earth conspire to cast her on the
moo moooooo moooo mo mooooo moo moooo mooooooo mo mooo moo mo moo

treacherous, slavish shore?
moooooooooo, moooooo moooo?




But as in landlessness alone resides highest truth, shoreless,
Moo mo mo mooooooooooo moooo moooooo moooooo moooo, moooooooo,

indefinite as God--so, better is it to perish in that howling infinite,
mooooooooo mo Moo--mo, mooooo mo mo mo mooooo mo mooo moooooo mooooooo,

than be ingloriously dashed upon the lee, even if that were safety!
mooo mo mooooooooooo mooooo mooo moo moo, mooo mo mooo mooo mooooo!

For worm-like, then, oh! who would craven crawl to land! Terrors of
Moo mooo-mooo, mooo, mo! moo moooo mooooo moooo mo mooo! Moooooo mo

the terrible! is all this agony so vain? Take heart, take heart,
moo mooooooo! mo moo mooo moooo mo mooo? Mooo moooo, mooo moooo,

O Bulkington! Bear thee grimly, demigod! Up from the spray of thy
M Mooooooooo! Mooo mooo mooooo, moooooo! Mo mooo moo moooo mo moo

ocean-perishing--straight up, leaps thy apotheosis!
moooo-moooooooo--mooooooo mo, moooo moo mooooooooo!










CHAPTER 24. The Advocate.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Mooooooo.







As Queequeg and I are now fairly embarked in this business of whaling;
Mo Mooooooo moo M moo moo mooooo mooooooo mo mooo mooooooo mo moooooo;

and as this business of whaling has somehow come to be regarded among
moo mo mooo mooooooo mo moooooo moo moooooo mooo mo mo mooooooo moooo

landsmen as a rather unpoetical and disreputable pursuit; therefore, I
mooooooo mo m mooooo mooooooooo moo mooooooooooo moooooo; moooooooo, M

am all anxiety to convince ye, ye landsmen, of the injustice hereby done
mo moo moooooo mo mooooooo mo, mo mooooooo, mo moo moooooooo mooooo mooo

to us hunters of whales.
mo mo moooooo mo mooooo.




In the first place, it may be deemed almost superfluous to establish
Mo moo moooo moooo, mo moo mo mooooo mooooo moooooooooo mo moooooooo

the fact, that among people at large, the business of whaling is not
moo mooo, mooo moooo mooooo mo moooo, moo mooooooo mo moooooo mo moo

accounted on a level with what are called the liberal professions. If a
moooooooo mo m moooo mooo mooo moo mooooo moo moooooo moooooooooo. Mo m

stranger were introduced into any miscellaneous metropolitan society,
mooooooo mooo mooooooooo mooo moo moooooooooooo mooooooooooo moooooo,

it would but slightly advance the general opinion of his merits, were
mo moooo moo mooooooo moooooo moo moooooo moooooo mo moo mooooo, mooo

he presented to the company as a harpooneer, say; and if in emulation
mo moooooooo mo moo moooooo mo m mooooooooo, moo; moo mo mo moooooooo

of the naval officers he should append the initials S.W.F. (Sperm
mo moo moooo mooooooo mo mooooo mooooo moo mooooooo M.M.M. (Moooo

Whale Fishery) to his visiting card, such a procedure would be deemed
Moooo Moooooo) mo moo mooooooo mooo, mooo m moooooooo moooo mo mooooo

pre-eminently presuming and ridiculous.
moo-moooooooo moooooooo moo mooooooooo.




Doubtless one leading reason why the world declines honouring us
Moooooooo moo moooooo mooooo moo moo moooo mooooooo moooooooo mo

whalemen, is this: they think that, at best, our vocation amounts to a
mooooooo, mo mooo: mooo moooo mooo, mo mooo, moo mooooooo moooooo mo m

butchering sort of business; and that when actively engaged therein, we
mooooooooo mooo mo mooooooo; moo mooo mooo mooooooo moooooo moooooo, mo

are surrounded by all manner of defilements. Butchers we are, that is
moo mooooooooo mo moo mooooo mo moooooooooo. Mooooooo mo moo, mooo mo

true. But butchers, also, and butchers of the bloodiest badge have been
mooo. Moo mooooooo, mooo, moo mooooooo mo moo moooooooo moooo mooo mooo

all Martial Commanders whom the world invariably delights to honour. And
moo Moooooo Mooooooooo mooo moo moooo mooooooooo mooooooo mo mooooo. Moo

as for the matter of the alleged uncleanliness of our business, ye shall
mo moo moo mooooo mo moo moooooo moooooooooooo mo moo mooooooo, mo moooo

soon be initiated into certain facts hitherto pretty generally unknown,
mooo mo moooooooo mooo moooooo moooo mooooooo mooooo moooooooo moooooo,

and which, upon the whole, will triumphantly plant the sperm whale-ship
moo moooo, mooo moo moooo, mooo mooooooooooo moooo moo moooo moooo-mooo

at least among the cleanliest things of this tidy earth. But even
mo moooo moooo moo mooooooooo mooooo mo mooo mooo moooo. Moo mooo

granting the charge in question to be true; what disordered slippery
mooooooo moo mooooo mo mooooooo mo mo mooo; mooo mooooooooo mooooooo

decks of a whale-ship are comparable to the unspeakable carrion of those
moooo mo m moooo-mooo moo mooooooooo mo moo moooooooooo moooooo mo moooo

battle-fields from which so many soldiers return to drink in all ladies'
mooooo-mooooo mooo moooo mo mooo mooooooo mooooo mo moooo mo moo mooooo'

plaudits? And if the idea of peril so much enhances the popular conceit
mooooooo? Moo mo moo mooo mo moooo mo mooo mooooooo moo moooooo moooooo

of the soldier's profession; let me assure ye that many a veteran
mo moo moooooo'm mooooooooo; moo mo mooooo mo mooo mooo m moooooo

who has freely marched up to a battery, would quickly recoil at the
moo moo mooooo moooooo mo mo m moooooo, moooo moooooo mooooo mo moo

apparition of the sperm whale's vast tail, fanning into eddies the air
mooooooooo mo moo moooo moooo'm mooo mooo, moooooo mooo mooooo moo moo

over his head. For what are the comprehensible terrors of man compared
mooo moo mooo. Moo mooo moo moo mooooooooooooo moooooo mo moo mooooooo

with the interlinked terrors and wonders of God!
mooo moo moooooooooo moooooo moo moooooo mo Moo!




But, though the world scouts at us whale hunters, yet does it
Moo, mooooo moo moooo mooooo mo mo moooo moooooo, moo mooo mo

unwittingly pay us the profoundest homage; yea, an all-abounding
moooooooooo moo mo moo moooooooooo mooooo; moo, mo moo-moooooooo

adoration! for almost all the tapers, lamps, and candles that burn round
moooooooo! moo mooooo moo moo mooooo, moooo, moo moooooo mooo mooo moooo

the globe, burn, as before so many shrines, to our glory!
moo moooo, mooo, mo mooooo mo mooo moooooo, mo moo moooo!




But look at this matter in other lights; weigh it in all sorts of
Moo mooo mo mooo mooooo mo moooo mooooo; moooo mo mo moo moooo mo

scales; see what we whalemen are, and have been.
mooooo; moo mooo mo mooooooo moo, moo mooo mooo.




Why did the Dutch in De Witt's time have admirals of their whaling
Moo moo moo Moooo mo Mo Mooo'm mooo mooo mooooooo mo moooo moooooo

fleets? Why did Louis XVI. of France, at his own personal expense, fit
mooooo? Moo moo Moooo MOO. mo Mooooo, mo moo moo mooooooo moooooo, moo

out whaling ships from Dunkirk, and politely invite to that town some
moo moooooo moooo mooo Moooooo, moo mooooooo mooooo mo mooo mooo mooo

score or two of families from our own island of Nantucket? Why did
moooo mo moo mo mooooooo mooo moo moo mooooo mo Moooooooo? Moo moo

Britain between the years 1750 and 1788 pay to her whalemen in bounties
Moooooo moooooo moo moooo mooo moo mooo moo mo moo mooooooo mo mooooooo

upwards of L1,000,000? And lastly, how comes it that we whalemen of
moooooo mo MO,moo,moo? Moo mooooo, moo moooo mo mooo mo mooooooo mo

America now outnumber all the rest of the banded whalemen in the world;
Moooooo moo moooooooo moo moo mooo mo moo mooooo mooooooo mo moo moooo;

sail a navy of upwards of seven hundred vessels; manned by eighteen
mooo m mooo mo moooooo mo moooo moooooo moooooo; mooooo mo mooooooo

thousand men; yearly consuming 4,000,000 of dollars; the ships worth,
mooooooo moo; mooooo moooooooo m,moo,moo mo moooooo; moo moooo moooo,

at the time of sailing, $20,000,000! and every year importing into our
mo moo mooo mo moooooo, $mo,moo,moo! moo moooo mooo moooooooo mooo moo

harbors a well reaped harvest of $7,000,000. How comes all this, if
moooooo m mooo mooooo moooooo mo $m,moo,moo. Moo moooo moo mooo, mo

there be not something puissant in whaling?
moooo mo moo moooooooo mooooooo mo moooooo?




But this is not the half; look again.
Moo mooo mo moo moo mooo; mooo moooo.




I freely assert, that the cosmopolite philosopher cannot, for his life,
M mooooo mooooo, mooo moo moooooooooo moooooooooo mooooo, moo moo mooo,

point out one single peaceful influence, which within the last sixty
moooo moo moo mooooo mooooooo moooooooo, moooo mooooo moo mooo moooo

years has operated more potentially upon the whole broad world, taken in
moooo moo mooooooo mooo moooooooooo mooo moo moooo moooo moooo, moooo mo

one aggregate, than the high and mighty business of whaling. One way
moo moooooooo, mooo moo mooo moo mooooo mooooooo mo moooooo. Moo moo

and another, it has begotten events so remarkable in themselves, and so
moo moooooo, mo moo mooooooo mooooo mo mooooooooo mo mooooooooo, moo mo

continuously momentous in their sequential issues, that whaling may
mooooooooooo moooooooo mo moooo mooooooooo mooooo, mooo moooooo moo

well be regarded as that Egyptian mother, who bore offspring themselves
mooo mo mooooooo mo mooo Mooooooo mooooo, moo mooo moooooooo mooooooooo

pregnant from her womb. It would be a hopeless, endless task to
mooooooo mooo moo mooo. Mo moooo mo m mooooooo, moooooo mooo mo

catalogue all these things. Let a handful suffice. For many years past
moooooooo moo moooo mooooo. Moo m moooooo moooooo. Moo mooo moooo mooo

the whale-ship has been the pioneer in ferreting out the remotest and
moo moooo-mooo moo mooo moo moooooo mo moooooooo moo moo mooooooo moo

least known parts of the earth. She has explored seas and archipelagoes
moooo moooo moooo mo moo moooo. Moo moo mooooooo mooo moo moooooooooooo

which had no chart, where no Cook or Vancouver had ever sailed. If
moooo moo mo moooo, moooo mo Mooo mo Moooooooo moo mooo mooooo. Mo

American and European men-of-war now peacefully ride in once savage
Mooooooo moo Mooooooo moo-mo-moo moo mooooooooo mooo mo mooo mooooo

harbors, let them fire salutes to the honour and glory of the
moooooo, moo mooo mooo moooooo mo moo mooooo moo moooo mo moo

whale-ship, which originally showed them the way, and first interpreted
moooo-mooo, moooo mooooooooo mooooo mooo moo moo, moo moooo moooooooooo

between them and the savages. They may celebrate as they will the heroes
moooooo mooo moo moo moooooo. Mooo moo moooooooo mo mooo mooo moo mooooo

of Exploring Expeditions, your Cooks, your Krusensterns; but I say that
mo Moooooooo Moooooooooo, mooo Moooo, mooo Mooooooooooo; moo M moo mooo

scores of anonymous Captains have sailed out of Nantucket, that were
mooooo mo moooooooo Mooooooo mooo mooooo moo mo Moooooooo, mooo mooo

as great, and greater than your Cook and your Krusenstern. For in their
mo moooo, moo moooooo mooo mooo Mooo moo mooo Moooooooooo. Moo mo moooo

succourless empty-handedness, they, in the heathenish sharked waters,
moooooooooo moooo-mooooooooo, mooo, mo moo mooooooooo moooooo mooooo,

and by the beaches of unrecorded, javelin islands, battled with virgin
moo mo moo moooooo mo mooooooooo, moooooo moooooo, moooooo mooo mooooo

wonders and terrors that Cook with all his marines and muskets would
moooooo moo moooooo mooo Mooo mooo moo moo moooooo moo moooooo moooo

not willingly have dared. All that is made such a flourish of in the old
moo moooooooo mooo moooo. Moo mooo mo mooo mooo m mooooooo mo mo moo moo

South Sea Voyages, those things were but the life-time commonplaces of
Moooo Moo Moooooo, moooo mooooo mooo moo moo mooo-mooo mooooooooooo mo

our heroic Nantucketers. Often, adventures which Vancouver dedicates
moo mooooo Mooooooooooo. Moooo, mooooooooo moooo Moooooooo moooooooo

three chapters to, these men accounted unworthy of being set down in the
moooo mooooooo mo, moooo moo moooooooo mooooooo mo moooo moo mooo mo moo

ship's common log. Ah, the world! Oh, the world!
mooo'm mooooo moo. Mo, moo moooo! Mo, moo moooo!




Until the whale fishery rounded Cape Horn, no commerce but colonial,
Moooo moo moooo moooooo moooooo Mooo Mooo, mo mooooooo moo mooooooo,

scarcely any intercourse but colonial, was carried on between Europe and
mooooooo moo moooooooooo moo mooooooo, moo moooooo mo moooooo Mooooo moo

the long line of the opulent Spanish provinces on the Pacific coast.
moo mooo mooo mo moo moooooo Moooooo moooooooo mo moo Moooooo moooo.

It was the whaleman who first broke through the jealous policy of the
Mo moo moo mooooooo moo moooo moooo moooooo moo moooooo mooooo mo moo

Spanish crown, touching those colonies; and, if space permitted, it
Moooooo moooo, mooooooo moooo mooooooo; moo, mo moooo moooooooo, mo

might be distinctly shown how from those whalemen at last eventuated the
moooo mo mooooooooo moooo moo mooo moooo mooooooo mo mooo mooooooooo moo

liberation of Peru, Chili, and Bolivia from the yoke of Old Spain, and
mooooooooo mo Mooo, Moooo, moo Moooooo mooo moo mooo mo Moo Moooo, moo

the establishment of the eternal democracy in those parts.
moo moooooooooooo mo moo moooooo moooooooo mo moooo moooo.




That great America on the other side of the sphere, Australia, was given
Mooo moooo Moooooo mo moo moooo mooo mo moo mooooo, Moooooooo, moo moooo

to the enlightened world by the whaleman. After its first blunder-born
mo moo moooooooooo moooo mo moo mooooooo. Moooo moo moooo moooooo-mooo

discovery by a Dutchman, all other ships long shunned those shores
moooooooo mo m Mooooooo, moo moooo moooo mooo moooooo moooo mooooo

as pestiferously barbarous; but the whale-ship touched there. The
mo moooooooooooo moooooooo; moo moo moooo-mooo moooooo moooo. Moo

whale-ship is the true mother of that now mighty colony. Moreover,
moooo-mooo mo moo mooo mooooo mo mooo moo mooooo mooooo. Mooooooo,

in the infancy of the first Australian settlement, the emigrants were
mo moo moooooo mo moo moooo Mooooooooo mooooooooo, moo moooooooo mooo

several times saved from starvation by the benevolent biscuit of the
moooooo moooo moooo mooo mooooooooo mo moo mooooooooo moooooo mo moo

whale-ship luckily dropping an anchor in their waters. The uncounted
moooo-mooo moooooo mooooooo mo mooooo mo moooo mooooo. Moo moooooooo

isles of all Polynesia confess the same truth, and do commercial homage
moooo mo moo Moooooooo moooooo moo mooo moooo, moo mo mooooooooo mooooo

to the whale-ship, that cleared the way for the missionary and the
mo moo moooo-mooo, mooo moooooo moo moo moo moo mooooooooo moo moo

merchant, and in many cases carried the primitive missionaries to their
mooooooo, moo mo mooo moooo moooooo moo moooooooo mooooooooooo mo moooo

first destinations. If that double-bolted land, Japan, is ever to become
moooo mooooooooooo. Mo mooo mooooo-mooooo mooo, Moooo, mo mooo mo mooooo

hospitable, it is the whale-ship alone to whom the credit will be due;
mooooooooo, mo mo moo moooo-mooo moooo mo mooo moo mooooo mooo mo moo;

for already she is on the threshold.
moo moooooo moo mo mo moo moooooooo.




But if, in the face of all this, you still declare that whaling has no
Moo mo, mo moo mooo mo moo mooo, moo moooo moooooo mooo moooooo moo mo

aesthetically noble associations connected with it, then am I ready to
moooooooooooo moooo mooooooooooo moooooooo mooo mo, mooo mo M moooo mo

shiver fifty lances with you there, and unhorse you with a split helmet
mooooo moooo mooooo mooo moo moooo, moo moooooo moo mooo m moooo mooooo

every time.
moooo mooo.




The whale has no famous author, and whaling no famous chronicler, you
Moo moooo moo mo mooooo mooooo, moo moooooo mo mooooo mooooooooo, moo

will say.
mooo moo.




THE WHALE NO FAMOUS AUTHOR, AND WHALING NO FAMOUS CHRONICLER? Who wrote
MOO MOOOO MO MOOOOO MOOOOO, MOO MOOOOOO MO MOOOOO MOOOOOOOOO? Moo moooo

the first account of our Leviathan? Who but mighty Job! And who composed
moo moooo moooooo mo moo Moooooooo? Moo moo mooooo Moo! Moo moo mooooooo

the first narrative of a whaling-voyage? Who, but no less a prince than
moo moooo moooooooo mo m moooooo-mooooo? Moo, moo mo mooo m mooooo mooo

Alfred the Great, who, with his own royal pen, took down the words from
Mooooo moo Moooo, moo, mooo moo moo moooo moo, mooo mooo moo moooo mooo

Other, the Norwegian whale-hunter of those times! And who pronounced our
Moooo, moo Moooooooo moooo-mooooo mo moooo moooo! Moo moo mooooooooo moo

glowing eulogy in Parliament? Who, but Edmund Burke!
moooooo mooooo mo Mooooooooo? Moo, moo Mooooo Moooo!




True enough, but then whalemen themselves are poor devils; they have no
Mooo mooooo, moo mooo mooooooo mooooooooo moo mooo mooooo; mooo mooo mo

good blood in their veins.
mooo moooo mo moooo moooo.




NO GOOD BLOOD IN THEIR VEINS? They have something better than royal
MO MOOO MOOOO MO MOOOO MOOOO? Mooo mooo moooooooo mooooo mooo moooo

blood there. The grandmother of Benjamin Franklin was Mary Morrel;
moooo moooo. Moo moooooooooo mo Mooooooo Mooooooo moo Mooo Mooooo;

afterwards, by marriage, Mary Folger, one of the old settlers
mooooooooo, mo mooooooo, Mooo Mooooo, moo mo moo moo mooooooo

of Nantucket, and the ancestress to a long line of Folgers and
mo Moooooooo, moo moo mooooooooo mo m mooo mooo mo Moooooo moo

harpooneers--all kith and kin to noble Benjamin--this day darting the
moooooooooo--moo mooo moo moo mo moooo Mooooooo--mooo moo moooooo moo

barbed iron from one side of the world to the other.
mooooo mooo mooo moo mooo mo moo moooo mo moo moooo.




Good again; but then all confess that somehow whaling is not
Mooo moooo; moo mooo moo moooooo mooo moooooo moooooo mo moo

respectable.
moooooooooo.




WHALING NOT RESPECTABLE? Whaling is imperial! By old English statutory
MOOOOOO MOO MOOOOOOOOOO? Moooooo mo mooooooo! Mo moo Moooooo moooooooo

law, the whale is declared "a royal fish."*
moo, moo moooo mo mooooooo "m moooo mooo."*




Oh, that's only nominal! The whale himself has never figured in any
Mo, mooo'm mooo moooooo! Moo moooo moooooo moo moooo moooooo mo moo

grand imposing way.
moooo mooooooo moo.




THE WHALE NEVER FIGURED IN ANY GRAND IMPOSING WAY? In one of the mighty
MOO MOOOO MOOOO MOOOOOO MO MOO MOOOO MOOOOOOO MOO? Mo moo mo moo mooooo

triumphs given to a Roman general upon his entering the world's capital,
mooooooo moooo mo m Moooo moooooo mooo moo mooooooo moo moooo'm moooooo,

the bones of a whale, brought all the way from the Syrian coast, were
moo moooo mo m moooo, moooooo moo moo moo mooo moo Mooooo moooo, mooo

the most conspicuous object in the cymballed procession.*
moo mooo moooooooooo mooooo mo moo moooooooo mooooooooo.*







*See subsequent chapters for something more on this head.
*Moo mooooooooo mooooooo moo moooooooo mooo mo mooo mooo.







Grant it, since you cite it; but, say what you will, there is no real
Moooo mo, moooo moo mooo mo; moo, moo mooo moo mooo, moooo mo mo mooo

dignity in whaling.
moooooo mo moooooo.




NO DIGNITY IN WHALING? The dignity of our calling the very heavens
MO MOOOOOO MO MOOOOOO? Moo moooooo mo moo moooooo moo mooo moooooo

attest. Cetus is a constellation in the South! No more! Drive down your
mooooo. Moooo mo m moooooooooooo mo moo Moooo! Mo mooo! Moooo mooo mooo

hat in presence of the Czar, and take it off to Queequeg! No more! I
moo mo mooooooo mo moo Mooo, moo mooo mo moo mo Mooooooo! Mo mooo! M

know a man that, in his lifetime, has taken three hundred and fifty
mooo m moo mooo, mo moo mooooooo, moo moooo moooo moooooo moo moooo

whales. I account that man more honourable than that great captain of
mooooo. M moooooo mooo moo mooo mooooooooo mooo mooo moooo moooooo mo

antiquity who boasted of taking as many walled towns.
moooooooo moo moooooo mo mooooo mo mooo mooooo moooo.




And, as for me, if, by any possibility, there be any as yet undiscovered
Moo, mo moo mo, mo, mo moo moooooooooo, moooo mo moo mo moo mooooooooooo

prime thing in me; if I shall ever deserve any real repute in that small
moooo moooo mo mo; mo M moooo mooo moooooo moo mooo mooooo mo mooo moooo

but high hushed world which I might not be unreasonably ambitious of; if
moo mooo mooooo moooo moooo M moooo moo mo mooooooooooo moooooooo mo; mo

hereafter I shall do anything that, upon the whole, a man might rather
moooooooo M moooo mo mooooooo mooo, mooo moo moooo, m moo moooo mooooo

have done than to have left undone; if, at my death, my executors, or
mooo mooo mooo mo mooo mooo mooooo; mo, mo mo moooo, mo moooooooo, mo

more properly my creditors, find any precious MSS. in my desk, then here
mooo mooooooo mo moooooooo, mooo moo mooooooo MOO. mo mo mooo, mooo mooo

I prospectively ascribe all the honour and the glory to whaling; for a
M moooooooooooo moooooo moo moo mooooo moo moo moooo mo moooooo; moo m

whale-ship was my Yale College and my Harvard.
moooo-mooo moo mo Mooo Moooooo moo mo Moooooo.










CHAPTER 25. Postscript.
MOOOOOO mo. Mooooooooo.







In behalf of the dignity of whaling, I would fain advance naught but
Mo mooooo mo moo moooooo mo moooooo, M moooo mooo moooooo mooooo moo

substantiated facts. But after embattling his facts, an advocate who
moooooooooooo moooo. Moo moooo mooooooooo moo moooo, mo mooooooo moo

should wholly suppress a not unreasonable surmise, which might
mooooo mooooo mooooooo m moo mooooooooooo moooooo, moooo moooo

tell eloquently upon his cause--such an advocate, would he not be
mooo mooooooooo mooo moo moooo--mooo mo mooooooo, moooo mo moo mo

blameworthy?
moooooooooo?




It is well known that at the coronation of kings and queens, even modern
Mo mo mooo moooo mooo mo moo mooooooooo mo moooo moo mooooo, mooo mooooo

ones, a certain curious process of seasoning them for their functions is
mooo, m moooooo moooooo moooooo mo moooooooo mooo moo moooo moooooooo mo

gone through. There is a saltcellar of state, so called, and there
mooo moooooo. Moooo mo m mooooooooo mo moooo, mo mooooo, moo moooo

may be a castor of state. How they use the salt, precisely--who knows?
moo mo m mooooo mo moooo. Moo mooo moo moo mooo, moooooooo--moo moooo?

Certain I am, however, that a king's head is solemnly oiled at his
Moooooo M mo, moooooo, mooo m mooo'm mooo mo mooooooo moooo mo moo

coronation, even as a head of salad. Can it be, though, that they
mooooooooo, mooo mo m mooo mo moooo. Moo mo mo, mooooo, mooo mooo

anoint it with a view of making its interior run well, as they anoint
mooooo mo mooo m mooo mo mooooo moo mooooooo moo mooo, mo mooo mooooo

machinery? Much might be ruminated here, concerning the essential
moooooooo? Mooo moooo mo moooooooo mooo, mooooooooo moo moooooooo

dignity of this regal process, because in common life we esteem but
moooooo mo mooo moooo moooooo, moooooo mo mooooo mooo mo mooooo moo

meanly and contemptibly a fellow who anoints his hair, and palpably
mooooo moo mooooooooooo m mooooo moo moooooo moo mooo, moo mooooooo

smells of that anointing. In truth, a mature man who uses hair-oil,
mooooo mo mooo moooooooo. Mo moooo, m mooooo moo moo mooo mooo-moo,

unless medicinally, that man has probably got a quoggy spot in him
mooooo moooooooooo, mooo moo moo mooooooo moo m mooooo mooo mo moo

somewhere. As a general rule, he can't amount to much in his totality.
moooooooo. Mo m moooooo mooo, mo moo'm mooooo mo mooo mo moo mooooooo.




But the only thing to be considered here, is this--what kind of oil is
Moo moo mooo moooo mo mo mooooooooo mooo, mo mooo--mooo mooo mo moo mo

used at coronations? Certainly it cannot be olive oil, nor macassar oil,
mooo mo moooooooooo? Moooooooo mo mooooo mo moooo moo, moo mooooooo moo,

nor castor oil, nor bear's oil, nor train oil, nor cod-liver oil. What
moo mooooo moo, moo mooo'm moo, moo moooo moo, moo moo-moooo moo. Mooo

then can it possibly be, but sperm oil in its unmanufactured, unpolluted
mooo moo mo mooooooo mo, moo moooo moo mo moo mooooooooooooo, mooooooooo

state, the sweetest of all oils?
moooo, moo mooooooo mo moo mooo?




Think of that, ye loyal Britons! we whalemen supply your kings and
Moooo mo mooo, mo moooo Moooooo! mo mooooooo mooooo mooo moooo moo

queens with coronation stuff!
mooooo mooo mooooooooo moooo!










CHAPTER 26. Knights and Squires.
MOOOOOO mo. Moooooo moo Moooooo.







The chief mate of the Pequod was Starbuck, a native of Nantucket, and a
Moo moooo mooo mo moo Mooooo moo Mooooooo, m mooooo mo Moooooooo, moo m

Quaker by descent. He was a long, earnest man, and though born on an icy
Mooooo mo moooooo. Mo moo m mooo, moooooo moo, moo mooooo mooo mo mo moo

coast, seemed well adapted to endure hot latitudes, his flesh being hard
moooo, mooooo mooo moooooo mo mooooo moo moooooooo, moo moooo moooo mooo

as twice-baked biscuit. Transported to the Indies, his live blood would
mo moooo-moooo moooooo. Moooooooooo mo moo Mooooo, moo mooo moooo moooo

not spoil like bottled ale. He must have been born in some time of
moo moooo mooo moooooo moo. Mo mooo mooo mooo mooo mo mooo mooo mo

general drought and famine, or upon one of those fast days for which
moooooo moooooo moo mooooo, mo mooo moo mo moooo mooo mooo moo moooo

his state is famous. Only some thirty arid summers had he seen; those
moo moooo mo mooooo. Mooo mooo mooooo mooo moooooo moo mo mooo; moooo

summers had dried up all his physical superfluousness. But this, his
moooooo moo moooo mo moo moo mooooooo moooooooooooooo. Moo mooo, moo

thinness, so to speak, seemed no more the token of wasting anxieties and
mooooooo, mo mo moooo, mooooo mo mooo moo moooo mo moooooo moooooooo moo

cares, than it seemed the indication of any bodily blight. It was merely
moooo, mooo mo mooooo moo mooooooooo mo moo mooooo mooooo. Mo moo mooooo

the condensation of the man. He was by no means ill-looking; quite the
moo mooooooooooo mo moo moo. Mo moo mo mo moooo moo-moooooo; moooo moo

contrary. His pure tight skin was an excellent fit; and closely wrapped
mooooooo. Moo mooo moooo mooo moo mo moooooooo moo; moo moooooo moooooo

up in it, and embalmed with inner health and strength, like a revivified
mo mo mo, moo mooooooo mooo moooo mooooo moo mooooooo, mooo m mooooooooo

Egyptian, this Starbuck seemed prepared to endure for long ages to come,
Mooooooo, mooo Mooooooo mooooo mooooooo mo mooooo moo mooo mooo mo mooo,

and to endure always, as now; for be it Polar snow or torrid sun, like
moo mo mooooo mooooo, mo moo; moo mo mo Moooo mooo mo mooooo moo, mooo

a patent chronometer, his interior vitality was warranted to do well
m mooooo moooooooooo, moo mooooooo mooooooo moo moooooooo mo mo mooo

in all climates. Looking into his eyes, you seemed to see there the yet
mo moo mooooooo. Moooooo mooo moo mooo, moo mooooo mo moo moooo moo moo

lingering images of those thousand-fold perils he had calmly confronted
moooooooo mooooo mo moooo mooooooo-mooo mooooo mo moo mooooo mooooooooo

through life. A staid, steadfast man, whose life for the most part was a
moooooo mooo. M moooo, moooooooo moo, moooo mooo moo moo mooo mooo moo m

telling pantomime of action, and not a tame chapter of sounds. Yet, for
moooooo moooooooo mo mooooo, moo moo m mooo moooooo mo mooooo. Moo, moo

all his hardy sobriety and fortitude, there were certain qualities
moo moo moooo mooooooo moo moooooooo, moooo mooo moooooo moooooooo

in him which at times affected, and in some cases seemed well nigh to
mo moo moooo mo moooo mooooooo, moo mo mooo moooo mooooo mooo mooo mo

overbalance all the rest. Uncommonly conscientious for a seaman, and
moooooooooo moo moo mooo. Mooooooooo moooooooooooo moo m mooooo, moo

endued with a deep natural reverence, the wild watery loneliness of his
mooooo mooo m mooo moooooo moooooooo, moo mooo mooooo mooooooooo mo moo

life did therefore strongly incline him to superstition; but to that
mooo moo moooooooo mooooooo moooooo moo mo mooooooooooo; moo mo mooo

sort of superstition, which in some organizations seems rather to
mooo mo mooooooooooo, moooo mo mooo moooooooooooo moooo mooooo mo

spring, somehow, from intelligence than from ignorance. Outward portents
mooooo, moooooo, mooo mooooooooooo mooo mooo moooooooo. Moooooo mooooooo

and inward presentiments were his. And if at times these things bent the
moo mooooo moooooooooooo mooo moo. Moo mo mo moooo moooo mooooo mooo moo

welded iron of his soul, much more did his far-away domestic memories
mooooo mooo mo moo mooo, mooo mooo moo moo moo-mooo mooooooo mooooooo

of his young Cape wife and child, tend to bend him still more from the
mo moo moooo Mooo mooo moo moooo, mooo mo mooo moo moooo mooo mooo moo

original ruggedness of his nature, and open him still further to those
mooooooo mooooooooo mo moo mooooo, moo mooo moo moooo moooooo mo moooo

latent influences which, in some honest-hearted men, restrain the gush
mooooo mooooooooo moooo, mo mooo mooooo-moooooo moo, mooooooo moo mooo

of dare-devil daring, so often evinced by others in the more perilous
mo mooo-moooo mooooo, mo moooo moooooo mo mooooo mo moo mooo mooooooo

vicissitudes of the fishery. "I will have no man in my boat," said
mooooooooooo mo moo moooooo. "M mooo mooo mo moo mo mo mooo," mooo

Starbuck, "who is not afraid of a whale." By this, he seemed to mean,
Mooooooo, "moo mo moo mooooo mo m moooo." Mo mooo, mo mooooo mo mooo,

not only that the most reliable and useful courage was that which arises
moo mooo mooo moo mooo mooooooo moo mooooo moooooo moo mooo moooo mooooo

from the fair estimation of the encountered peril, but that an utterly
mooo moo mooo mooooooooo mo moo moooooooooo moooo, moo mooo mo moooooo

fearless man is a far more dangerous comrade than a coward.
mooooooo moo mo m moo mooo moooooooo moooooo mooo m mooooo.




"Aye, aye," said Stubb, the second mate, "Starbuck, there, is as careful
"Moo, moo," mooo Moooo, moo mooooo mooo, "Mooooooo, moooo, mo mo moooooo

a man as you'll find anywhere in this fishery." But we shall ere long
m moo mo moo'mo mooo mooooooo mo mooo moooooo." Moo mo moooo moo mooo

see what that word "careful" precisely means when used by a man like
moo mooo mooo mooo "moooooo" moooooooo moooo mooo mooo mo m moo mooo

Stubb, or almost any other whale hunter.
Moooo, mo mooooo moo moooo moooo mooooo.




Starbuck was no crusader after perils; in him courage was not a
Mooooooo moo mo mooooooo moooo mooooo; mo moo moooooo moo moo m

sentiment; but a thing simply useful to him, and always at hand upon all
moooooooo; moo m moooo mooooo mooooo mo moo, moo mooooo mo mooo mooo moo

mortally practical occasions. Besides, he thought, perhaps, that in this
mooooooo moooooooo moooooooo. Moooooo, mo moooooo, moooooo, mooo mo mooo

business of whaling, courage was one of the great staple outfits of
mooooooo mo moooooo, moooooo moo moo mo moo moooo mooooo moooooo mo

the ship, like her beef and her bread, and not to be foolishly wasted.
moo mooo, mooo moo mooo moo moo moooo, moo moo mo mo moooooooo mooooo.

Wherefore he had no fancy for lowering for whales after sun-down; nor
Moooooooo mo moo mo moooo moo mooooooo moo mooooo moooo moo-mooo; moo

for persisting in fighting a fish that too much persisted in fighting
moo mooooooooo mo mooooooo m mooo mooo moo mooo moooooooo mo mooooooo

him. For, thought Starbuck, I am here in this critical ocean to kill
moo. Moo, moooooo Mooooooo, M mo mooo mo mooo mooooooo moooo mo mooo

whales for my living, and not to be killed by them for theirs; and that
mooooo moo mo mooooo, moo moo mo mo mooooo mo mooo moo mooooo; moo mooo

hundreds of men had been so killed Starbuck well knew. What doom was
mooooooo mo moo moo mooo mo mooooo Mooooooo mooo mooo. Mooo mooo moo

his own father's? Where, in the bottomless deeps, could he find the torn
moo moo mooooo'm? Moooo, mo moo mooooooooo moooo, moooo mo mooo moo mooo

limbs of his brother?
moooo mo moo moooooo?




With memories like these in him, and, moreover, given to a certain
Mooo mooooooo mooo moooo mo moo, moo, mooooooo, moooo mo m moooooo

superstitiousness, as has been said; the courage of this Starbuck which
moooooooooooooooo, mo moo mooo mooo; moo moooooo mo mooo Mooooooo moooo

could, nevertheless, still flourish, must indeed have been extreme. But
moooo, mooooooooooo, moooo mooooooo, mooo mooooo mooo mooo moooooo. Moo

it was not in reasonable nature that a man so organized, and with such
mo moo moo mo mooooooooo mooooo mooo m moo mo moooooooo, moo mooo mooo

terrible experiences and remembrances as he had; it was not in nature
mooooooo moooooooooo moo mooooooooooo mo mo moo; mo moo moo mo mooooo

that these things should fail in latently engendering an element in
mooo moooo mooooo mooooo mooo mo mooooooo moooooooooo mo moooooo mo

him, which, under suitable circumstances, would break out from its
moo, moooo, moooo mooooooo moooooooooooo, moooo moooo moo mooo moo

confinement, and burn all his courage up. And brave as he might be, it
moooooooooo, moo mooo moo moo moooooo mo. Moo moooo mo mo moooo mo, mo

was that sort of bravery chiefly, visible in some intrepid men, which,
moo mooo mooo mo moooooo moooooo, moooooo mo mooo mooooooo moo, moooo,

while generally abiding firm in the conflict with seas, or winds, or
moooo moooooooo moooooo mooo mo moo mooooooo mooo mooo, mo moooo, mo

whales, or any of the ordinary irrational horrors of the world, yet
mooooo, mo moo mo moo mooooooo mooooooooo moooooo mo moo moooo, moo

cannot withstand those more terrific, because more spiritual terrors,
mooooo moooooooo moooo mooo mooooooo, moooooo mooo moooooooo moooooo,

which sometimes menace you from the concentrating brow of an enraged and
moooo moooooooo mooooo moo mooo moo moooooooooooo mooo mo mo moooooo moo

mighty man.
mooooo moo.




But were the coming narrative to reveal in any instance, the complete
Moo mooo moo mooooo moooooooo mo mooooo mo moo mooooooo, moo mooooooo

abasement of poor Starbuck's fortitude, scarce might I have the heart to
moooooooo mo mooo Mooooooo'm moooooooo, mooooo moooo M mooo moo moooo mo

write it; for it is a thing most sorrowful, nay shocking, to expose
moooo mo; moo mo mo m moooo mooo moooooooo, moo mooooooo, mo mooooo

the fall of valour in the soul. Men may seem detestable as joint
moo mooo mo mooooo mo moo mooo. Moo moo mooo mooooooooo mo moooo

stock-companies and nations; knaves, fools, and murderers there may be;
moooo-moooooooo moo moooooo; mooooo, moooo, moo moooooooo moooo moo mo;

men may have mean and meagre faces; but man, in the ideal, is so noble
moo moo mooo mooo moo mooooo moooo; moo moo, mo moo moooo, mo mo moooo

and so sparkling, such a grand and glowing creature, that over any
moo mo moooooooo, mooo m moooo moo moooooo mooooooo, mooo mooo moo

ignominious blemish in him all his fellows should run to throw their
moooooooooo moooooo mo moo moo moo moooooo mooooo moo mo moooo moooo

costliest robes. That immaculate manliness we feel within ourselves,
moooooooo moooo. Mooo mooooooooo moooooooo mo mooo mooooo moooooooo,

so far within us, that it remains intact though all the outer character
mo moo mooooo mo, mooo mo moooooo mooooo mooooo moo moo moooo moooooooo

seem gone; bleeds with keenest anguish at the undraped spectacle of
mooo mooo; mooooo mooo moooooo moooooo mo moo mooooooo moooooooo mo

a valor-ruined man. Nor can piety itself, at such a shameful sight,
m moooo-mooooo moo. Moo moo moooo mooooo, mo mooo m mooooooo moooo,

completely stifle her upbraidings against the permitting stars. But this
mooooooooo mooooo moo moooooooooo moooooo moo mooooooooo moooo. Moo mooo

august dignity I treat of, is not the dignity of kings and robes, but
mooooo moooooo M moooo mo, mo moo moo moooooo mo moooo moo moooo, moo

that abounding dignity which has no robed investiture. Thou shalt see it
mooo moooooooo moooooo moooo moo mo moooo moooooooooo. Mooo moooo moo mo

shining in the arm that wields a pick or drives a spike; that democratic
moooooo mo moo moo mooo mooooo m mooo mo mooooo m moooo; mooo mooooooooo

dignity which, on all hands, radiates without end from God; Himself! The
moooooo moooo, mo moo moooo, mooooooo moooooo moo mooo Moo; Moooooo! Moo

great God absolute! The centre and circumference of all democracy! His
moooo Moo mooooooo! Moo mooooo moo moooooooooooo mo moo moooooooo! Moo

omnipresence, our divine equality!
mooooooooooo, moo mooooo mooooooo!




If, then, to meanest mariners, and renegades and castaways, I shall
Mo, mooo, mo moooooo mooooooo, moo moooooooo moo moooooooo, M moooo

hereafter ascribe high qualities, though dark; weave round them tragic
moooooooo moooooo mooo moooooooo, mooooo mooo; moooo moooo mooo mooooo

graces; if even the most mournful, perchance the most abased, among them
mooooo; mo mooo moo mooo mooooooo, moooooooo moo mooo mooooo, moooo mooo

all, shall at times lift himself to the exalted mounts; if I shall touch
moo, moooo mo moooo mooo moooooo mo moo moooooo mooooo; mo M moooo moooo

that workman's arm with some ethereal light; if I shall spread a rainbow
mooo moooooo'm moo mooo mooo mooooooo moooo; mo M moooo mooooo m moooooo

over his disastrous set of sun; then against all mortal critics bear
mooo moo mooooooooo moo mo moo; mooo moooooo moo mooooo moooooo mooo

me out in it, thou Just Spirit of Equality, which hast spread one royal
mo moo mo mo, mooo Mooo Mooooo mo Mooooooo, moooo mooo mooooo moo moooo

mantle of humanity over all my kind! Bear me out in it, thou great
mooooo mo mooooooo mooo moo mo mooo! Mooo mo moo mo mo, mooo moooo

democratic God! who didst not refuse to the swart convict, Bunyan, the
mooooooooo Moo! moo moooo moo mooooo mo moo moooo moooooo, Mooooo, moo

pale, poetic pearl; Thou who didst clothe with doubly hammered leaves
mooo, mooooo moooo; Mooo moo moooo mooooo mooo mooooo mooooooo mooooo

of finest gold, the stumped and paupered arm of old Cervantes; Thou who
mo mooooo mooo, moo moooooo moo mooooooo moo mo moo Moooooooo; Mooo moo

didst pick up Andrew Jackson from the pebbles; who didst hurl him upon a
moooo mooo mo Mooooo Moooooo mooo moo moooooo; moo moooo mooo moo mooo m

war-horse; who didst thunder him higher than a throne! Thou who, in all
moo-moooo; moo moooo moooooo moo mooooo mooo m mooooo! Mooo moo, mo moo

Thy mighty, earthly marchings, ever cullest Thy selectest champions from
Moo mooooo, moooooo moooooooo, mooo moooooo Moo moooooooo moooooooo mooo

the kingly commons; bear me out in it, O God!
moo mooooo moooooo; mooo mo moo mo mo, M Moo!










CHAPTER 27. Knights and Squires.
MOOOOOO mo. Moooooo moo Moooooo.







Stubb was the second mate. He was a native of Cape Cod; and hence,
Moooo moo moo mooooo mooo. Mo moo m mooooo mo Mooo Moo; moo moooo,

according to local usage, was called a Cape-Cod-man. A happy-go-lucky;
moooooooo mo moooo moooo, moo mooooo m Mooo-Moo-moo. M moooo-mo-moooo;

neither craven nor valiant; taking perils as they came with an
moooooo mooooo moo moooooo; mooooo mooooo mo mooo mooo mooo mo

indifferent air; and while engaged in the most imminent crisis of the
moooooooooo moo; moo moooo moooooo mo moo mooo mooooooo mooooo mo moo

chase, toiling away, calm and collected as a journeyman joiner engaged
moooo, moooooo mooo, mooo moo moooooooo mo m mooooooooo mooooo moooooo

for the year. Good-humored, easy, and careless, he presided over his
moo moo mooo. Mooo-moooooo, mooo, moo mooooooo, mo mooooooo mooo moo

whale-boat as if the most deadly encounter were but a dinner, and his
moooo-mooo mo mo moo mooo mooooo moooooooo mooo moo m mooooo, moo moo

crew all invited guests. He was as particular about the comfortable
mooo moo moooooo mooooo. Mo moo mo mooooooooo moooo moo moooooooooo

arrangement of his part of the boat, as an old stage-driver is about the
moooooooooo mo moo mooo mo moo mooo, mo mo moo moooo-mooooo mo moooo moo

snugness of his box. When close to the whale, in the very death-lock of
mooooooo mo moo moo. Mooo moooo mo moo moooo, mo moo mooo moooo-mooo mo

the fight, he handled his unpitying lance coolly and off-handedly, as
moo moooo, mo moooooo moo moooooooo moooo mooooo moo moo-mooooooo, mo

a whistling tinker his hammer. He would hum over his old rigadig tunes
m moooooooo mooooo moo mooooo. Mo moooo moo mooo moo moo moooooo moooo

while flank and flank with the most exasperated monster. Long usage had,
moooo moooo moo moooo mooo moo mooo moooooooooo moooooo. Mooo moooo moo,

for this Stubb, converted the jaws of death into an easy chair. What he
moo mooo Moooo, moooooooo moo mooo mo moooo mooo mo mooo moooo. Mooo mo

thought of death itself, there is no telling. Whether he ever thought of
moooooo mo moooo mooooo, moooo mo mo moooooo. Moooooo mo mooo moooooo mo

it at all, might be a question; but, if he ever did chance to cast his
mo mo moo, moooo mo m mooooooo; moo, mo mo mooo moo mooooo mo mooo moo

mind that way after a comfortable dinner, no doubt, like a good sailor,
mooo mooo moo moooo m moooooooooo mooooo, mo moooo, mooo m mooo mooooo,

he took it to be a sort of call of the watch to tumble aloft, and bestir
mo mooo mo mo mo m mooo mo mooo mo moo moooo mo mooooo moooo, moo mooooo

themselves there, about something which he would find out when he obeyed
mooooooooo moooo, moooo moooooooo moooo mo moooo mooo moo mooo mo mooooo

the order, and not sooner.
moo moooo, moo moo mooooo.




What, perhaps, with other things, made Stubb such an easy-going,
Mooo, moooooo, mooo moooo mooooo, mooo Moooo mooo mo mooo-moooo,

unfearing man, so cheerily trudging off with the burden of life in a
moooooooo moo, mo mooooooo mooooooo moo mooo moo mooooo mo mooo mo m

world full of grave pedlars, all bowed to the ground with their packs;
moooo mooo mo moooo moooooo, moo moooo mo moo mooooo mooo moooo moooo;

what helped to bring about that almost impious good-humor of his; that
mooo mooooo mo moooo moooo mooo mooooo moooooo mooo-moooo mo moo; mooo

thing must have been his pipe. For, like his nose, his short, black
moooo mooo mooo mooo moo mooo. Moo, mooo moo mooo, moo moooo, moooo

little pipe was one of the regular features of his face. You would
mooooo mooo moo moo mo moo moooooo mooooooo mo moo mooo. Moo moooo

almost as soon have expected him to turn out of his bunk without his
mooooo mo mooo mooo mooooooo moo mo mooo moo mo moo mooo moooooo moo

nose as without his pipe. He kept a whole row of pipes there ready
mooo mo moooooo moo mooo. Mo mooo m moooo moo mo moooo moooo moooo

loaded, stuck in a rack, within easy reach of his hand; and, whenever he
mooooo, moooo mo m mooo, mooooo mooo moooo mo moo mooo; moo, mooooooo mo

turned in, he smoked them all out in succession, lighting one from
mooooo mo, mo mooooo mooo moo moo mo mooooooooo, mooooooo moo mooo

the other to the end of the chapter; then loading them again to be in
moo moooo mo moo moo mo moo moooooo; mooo moooooo mooo moooo mo mo mo

readiness anew. For, when Stubb dressed, instead of first putting his
moooooooo mooo. Moo, mooo Moooo moooooo, moooooo mo moooo moooooo moo

legs into his trowsers, he put his pipe into his mouth.
mooo mooo moo mooooooo, mo moo moo mooo mooo moo moooo.




I say this continual smoking must have been one cause, at least, of his
M moo mooo moooooooo moooooo mooo mooo mooo moo moooo, mo moooo, mo moo

peculiar disposition; for every one knows that this earthly air, whether
mooooooo moooooooooo; moo moooo moo moooo mooo mooo moooooo moo, moooooo

ashore or afloat, is terribly infected with the nameless miseries of
mooooo mo mooooo, mo mooooooo mooooooo mooo moo mooooooo mooooooo mo

the numberless mortals who have died exhaling it; and as in time of the
moo mooooooooo moooooo moo mooo mooo mooooooo mo; moo mo mo mooo mo moo

cholera, some people go about with a camphorated handkerchief to their
moooooo, mooo mooooo mo moooo mooo m moooooooooo mooooooooooo mo moooo

mouths; so, likewise, against all mortal tribulations, Stubb's tobacco
mooooo; mo, mooooooo, moooooo moo mooooo mooooooooooo, Moooo'm moooooo

smoke might have operated as a sort of disinfecting agent.
moooo moooo mooo mooooooo mo m mooo mo mooooooooooo moooo.




The third mate was Flask, a native of Tisbury, in Martha's Vineyard. A
Moo moooo mooo moo Moooo, m mooooo mo Moooooo, mo Mooooo'm Mooooooo. M

short, stout, ruddy young fellow, very pugnacious concerning whales,
moooo, moooo, moooo moooo mooooo, mooo mooooooooo mooooooooo mooooo,

who somehow seemed to think that the great leviathans had personally
moo moooooo mooooo mo moooo mooo moo moooo mooooooooo moo mooooooooo

and hereditarily affronted him; and therefore it was a sort of point of
moo mooooooooooo moooooooo moo; moo moooooooo mo moo m mooo mo moooo mo

honour with him, to destroy them whenever encountered. So utterly lost
mooooo mooo moo, mo moooooo mooo mooooooo moooooooooo. Mo moooooo mooo

was he to all sense of reverence for the many marvels of their majestic
moo mo mo moo moooo mo moooooooo moo moo mooo moooooo mo moooo mooooooo

bulk and mystic ways; and so dead to anything like an apprehension of
mooo moo mooooo mooo; moo mo mooo mo mooooooo mooo mo mooooooooooo mo

any possible danger from encountering them; that in his poor opinion,
moo mooooooo mooooo mooo mooooooooooo mooo; mooo mo moo mooo moooooo,

the wondrous whale was but a species of magnified mouse, or at least
moo mooooooo moooo moo moo m moooooo mo moooooooo moooo, mo mo moooo

water-rat, requiring only a little circumvention and some small
moooo-moo, moooooooo mooo m mooooo moooooooooooo moo mooo moooo

application of time and trouble in order to kill and boil. This
moooooooooo mo mooo moo moooooo mo moooo mo mooo moo mooo. Mooo

ignorant, unconscious fearlessness of his made him a little waggish in
mooooooo, moooooooooo mooooooooooo mo moo mooo moo m mooooo moooooo mo

the matter of whales; he followed these fish for the fun of it; and a
moo mooooo mo mooooo; mo mooooooo moooo mooo moo moo moo mo mo; moo m

three years' voyage round Cape Horn was only a jolly joke that lasted
moooo moooo' mooooo moooo Mooo Mooo moo mooo m moooo mooo mooo mooooo

that length of time. As a carpenter's nails are divided into wrought
mooo mooooo mo mooo. Mo m moooooooo'm moooo moo moooooo mooo moooooo

nails and cut nails; so mankind may be similarly divided. Little Flask
moooo moo moo moooo; mo moooooo moo mo moooooooo moooooo. Mooooo Moooo

was one of the wrought ones; made to clinch tight and last long. They
moo moo mo moo moooooo mooo; mooo mo mooooo moooo moo mooo mooo. Mooo

called him King-Post on board of the Pequod; because, in form, he could
mooooo moo Mooo-Mooo mo moooo mo moo Mooooo; moooooo, mo mooo, mo moooo

be well likened to the short, square timber known by that name in Arctic
mo mooo moooooo mo moo moooo, mooooo mooooo moooo mo mooo mooo mo Mooooo

whalers; and which by the means of many radiating side timbers inserted
moooooo; moo moooo mo moo moooo mo mooo moooooooo mooo moooooo mooooooo

into it, serves to brace the ship against the icy concussions of those
mooo mo, mooooo mo moooo moo mooo moooooo moo moo moooooooooo mo moooo

battering seas.
moooooooo mooo.




Now these three mates--Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask, were momentous
Moo moooo moooo moooo--Mooooooo, Moooo, moo Moooo, mooo moooooooo

men. They it was who by universal prescription commanded three of the
moo. Mooo mo moo moo mo moooooooo mooooooooooo moooooooo moooo mo moo

Pequod's boats as headsmen. In that grand order of battle in which
Mooooo'm moooo mo mooooooo. Mo mooo moooo moooo mo mooooo mo moooo

Captain Ahab would probably marshal his forces to descend on the whales,
Moooooo Mooo moooo mooooooo moooooo moo mooooo mo moooooo mo moo mooooo,

these three headsmen were as captains of companies. Or, being armed with
moooo moooo mooooooo mooo mo mooooooo mo moooooooo. Mo, moooo moooo mooo

their long keen whaling spears, they were as a picked trio of lancers;
moooo mooo mooo moooooo mooooo, mooo mooo mo m mooooo mooo mo moooooo;

even as the harpooneers were flingers of javelins.
mooo mo moo moooooooooo mooo mooooooo mo mooooooo.




And since in this famous fishery, each mate or headsman, like a Gothic
Moo moooo mo mooo mooooo moooooo, mooo mooo mo mooooooo, mooo m Mooooo

Knight of old, is always accompanied by his boat-steerer or harpooneer,
Mooooo mo moo, mo mooooo moooooooooo mo moo mooo-moooooo mo mooooooooo,

who in certain conjunctures provides him with a fresh lance, when
moo mo moooooo mooooooooooo mooooooo moo mooo m moooo moooo, mooo

the former one has been badly twisted, or elbowed in the assault; and
moo mooooo moo moo mooo moooo moooooo, mo moooooo mo moo moooooo; moo

moreover, as there generally subsists between the two, a close intimacy
mooooooo, mo moooo moooooooo mooooooo moooooo moo moo, m moooo mooooooo

and friendliness; it is therefore but meet, that in this place we set
moo mooooooooooo; mo mo moooooooo moo mooo, mooo mo mooo moooo mo moo

down who the Pequod's harpooneers were, and to what headsman each of
mooo moo moo Mooooo'm moooooooooo mooo, moo mo mooo mooooooo mooo mo

them belonged.
mooo mooooooo.




First of all was Queequeg, whom Starbuck, the chief mate, had selected
Moooo mo moo moo Mooooooo, mooo Mooooooo, moo moooo mooo, moo mooooooo

for his squire. But Queequeg is already known.
moo moo mooooo. Moo Mooooooo mo moooooo moooo.




Next was Tashtego, an unmixed Indian from Gay Head, the most westerly
Mooo moo Mooooooo, mo moooooo Mooooo mooo Moo Mooo, moo mooo mooooooo

promontory of Martha's Vineyard, where there still exists the last
mooooooooo mo Mooooo'm Mooooooo, moooo moooo moooo mooooo moo mooo

remnant of a village of red men, which has long supplied the neighboring
moooooo mo m moooooo mo moo moo, moooo moo mooo mooooooo moo moooooooooo

island of Nantucket with many of her most daring harpooneers. In the
mooooo mo Moooooooo mooo mooo mo moo mooo mooooo moooooooooo. Mo moo

fishery, they usually go by the generic name of Gay-Headers. Tashtego's
moooooo, mooo moooooo mo mo moo moooooo mooo mo Moo-Moooooo. Mooooooo'm

long, lean, sable hair, his high cheek bones, and black rounding
mooo, mooo, moooo mooo, moo mooo moooo moooo, moo moooo mooooooo

eyes--for an Indian, Oriental in their largeness, but Antarctic in their
mooo--moo mo Mooooo, Mooooooo mo moooo moooooooo, moo Moooooooo mo moooo

glittering expression--all this sufficiently proclaimed him an inheritor
mooooooooo mooooooooo--moo mooo mooooooooooo mooooooooo moo mo moooooooo

of the unvitiated blood of those proud warrior hunters, who, in quest
mo moo mooooooooo moooo mo moooo moooo moooooo moooooo, moo, mo moooo

of the great New England moose, had scoured, bow in hand, the aboriginal
mo moo moooo Moo Moooooo moooo, moo moooooo, moo mo mooo, moo mooooooooo

forests of the main. But no longer snuffing in the trail of the wild
moooooo mo moo mooo. Moo mo mooooo mooooooo mo moo moooo mo moo mooo

beasts of the woodland, Tashtego now hunted in the wake of the great
mooooo mo moo mooooooo, Mooooooo moo mooooo mo moo mooo mo moo moooo

whales of the sea; the unerring harpoon of the son fitly replacing the
mooooo mo moo moo; moo mooooooo moooooo mo moo moo moooo moooooooo moo

infallible arrow of the sires. To look at the tawny brawn of his lithe
mooooooooo moooo mo moo moooo. Mo mooo mo moo moooo moooo mo moo moooo

snaky limbs, you would almost have credited the superstitions of some of
moooo moooo, moo moooo mooooo mooo mooooooo moo moooooooooooo mo mooo mo

the earlier Puritans, and half-believed this wild Indian to be a son
moo moooooo Mooooooo, moo mooo-mooooooo mooo mooo Mooooo mo mo m moo

of the Prince of the Powers of the Air. Tashtego was Stubb the second
mo moo Mooooo mo moo Mooooo mo moo Moo. Mooooooo moo Moooo moo mooooo

mate's squire.
mooo'm mooooo.




Third among the harpooneers was Daggoo, a gigantic, coal-black
Moooo moooo moo moooooooooo moo Mooooo, m mooooooo, mooo-moooo

negro-savage, with a lion-like tread--an Ahasuerus to behold. Suspended
moooo-mooooo, mooo m mooo-mooo moooo--mo Moooooooo mo mooooo. Moooooooo

from his ears were two golden hoops, so large that the sailors called
mooo moo mooo mooo moo mooooo moooo, mo moooo mooo moo moooooo mooooo

them ring-bolts, and would talk of securing the top-sail halyards to
mooo mooo-moooo, moo moooo mooo mo mooooooo moo moo-mooo mooooooo mo

them. In his youth Daggoo had voluntarily shipped on board of a whaler,
mooo. Mo moo moooo Mooooo moo moooooooooo moooooo mo moooo mo m mooooo,

lying in a lonely bay on his native coast. And never having been
moooo mo m mooooo moo mo moo mooooo moooo. Moo moooo mooooo mooo

anywhere in the world but in Africa, Nantucket, and the pagan harbors
mooooooo mo moo moooo moo mo Mooooo, Moooooooo, moo moo moooo moooooo

most frequented by whalemen; and having now led for many years the bold
mooo mooooooooo mo mooooooo; moo mooooo moo moo moo mooo moooo moo mooo

life of the fishery in the ships of owners uncommonly heedful of what
mooo mo moo moooooo mo moo moooo mo mooooo mooooooooo moooooo mo mooo

manner of men they shipped; Daggoo retained all his barbaric virtues,
mooooo mo moo mooo moooooo; Mooooo mooooooo moo moo mooooooo moooooo,

and erect as a giraffe, moved about the decks in all the pomp of six
moo moooo mo m moooooo, moooo moooo moo moooo mo moo moo mooo mo moo

feet five in his socks. There was a corporeal humility in looking up at
mooo mooo mo moo moooo. Moooo moo m moooooooo mooooooo mo moooooo mo mo

him; and a white man standing before him seemed a white flag come to
moo; moo m moooo moo mooooooo mooooo moo mooooo m moooo mooo mooo mo

beg truce of a fortress. Curious to tell, this imperial negro, Ahasuerus
moo moooo mo m mooooooo. Moooooo mo mooo, mooo mooooooo moooo, Moooooooo

Daggoo, was the Squire of little Flask, who looked like a chess-man
Mooooo, moo moo Mooooo mo mooooo Moooo, moo mooooo mooo m moooo-moo

beside him. As for the residue of the Pequod's company, be it said, that
mooooo moo. Mo moo moo moooooo mo moo Mooooo'm moooooo, mo mo mooo, mooo

at the present day not one in two of the many thousand men before the
mo moo moooooo moo moo moo mo moo mo moo mooo mooooooo moo mooooo moo

mast employed in the American whale fishery, are Americans born, though
mooo mooooooo mo moo Mooooooo moooo moooooo, moo Moooooooo mooo, mooooo

pretty nearly all the officers are. Herein it is the same with the
mooooo mooooo moo moo mooooooo moo. Mooooo mo mo moo mooo mooo moo

American whale fishery as with the American army and military and
Mooooooo moooo moooooo mo mooo moo Mooooooo mooo moo mooooooo moo

merchant navies, and the engineering forces employed in the construction
mooooooo mooooo, moo moo moooooooooo mooooo mooooooo mo moo mooooooooooo

of the American Canals and Railroads. The same, I say, because in all
mo moo Mooooooo Mooooo moo Moooooooo. Moo mooo, M moo, moooooo mo moo

these cases the native American liberally provides the brains, the rest
moooo moooo moo mooooo Mooooooo moooooooo mooooooo moo mooooo, moo mooo

of the world as generously supplying the muscles. No small number of
mo moo moooo mo mooooooooo moooooooo moo moooooo. Mo moooo mooooo mo

these whaling seamen belong to the Azores, where the outward bound
moooo moooooo mooooo mooooo mo moo Mooooo, moooo moo moooooo moooo

Nantucket whalers frequently touch to augment their crews from the hardy
Moooooooo moooooo mooooooooo moooo mo moooooo moooo moooo mooo moo moooo

peasants of those rocky shores. In like manner, the Greenland whalers
mooooooo mo moooo moooo mooooo. Mo mooo mooooo, moo Moooooooo moooooo

sailing out of Hull or London, put in at the Shetland Islands, to
moooooo moo mo Mooo mo Mooooo, moo mo mo moo Mooooooo Moooooo, mo

receive the full complement of their crew. Upon the passage homewards,
moooooo moo mooo mooooooooo mo moooo mooo. Mooo moo moooooo moooooooo,

they drop them there again. How it is, there is no telling, but
mooo mooo mooo moooo moooo. Moo mo mo, moooo mo mo moooooo, moo

Islanders seem to make the best whalemen. They were nearly all Islanders
Moooooooo mooo mo mooo moo mooo mooooooo. Mooo mooo mooooo moo Moooooooo

in the Pequod, ISOLATOES too, I call such, not acknowledging the common
mo moo Mooooo, MOOOOOOOO moo, M mooo mooo, moo moooooooooooo moo mooooo

continent of men, but each ISOLATO living on a separate continent of his
moooooooo mo moo, moo mooo MOOOOOO mooooo mo m mooooooo moooooooo mo moo

own. Yet now, federated along one keel, what a set these Isolatoes were!
moo. Moo moo, moooooooo moooo moo mooo, mooo m moo moooo Moooooooo mooo!

An Anacharsis Clootz deputation from all the isles of the sea, and all
Mo Mooooooooo Mooooo mooooooooo mooo moo moo moooo mo moo moo, moo moo

the ends of the earth, accompanying Old Ahab in the Pequod to lay the
moo mooo mo moo moooo, mooooooooooo Moo Mooo mo moo Mooooo mo moo moo

world's grievances before that bar from which not very many of them ever
moooo'm mooooooooo mooooo mooo moo mooo moooo moo mooo mooo mo mooo mooo

come back. Black Little Pip--he never did--oh, no! he went before. Poor
mooo mooo. Moooo Mooooo Moo--mo moooo moo--mo, mo! mo mooo mooooo. Mooo

Alabama boy! On the grim Pequod's forecastle, ye shall ere long see him,
Moooooo moo! Mo moo mooo Mooooo'm mooooooooo, mo moooo moo mooo moo moo,

beating his tambourine; prelusive of the eternal time, when sent for,
moooooo moo mooooooooo; moooooooo mo moo moooooo mooo, mooo mooo moo,

to the great quarter-deck on high, he was bid strike in with angels, and
mo moo moooo moooooo-mooo mo mooo, mo moo moo mooooo mo mooo mooooo, moo

beat his tambourine in glory; called a coward here, hailed a hero there!
mooo moo mooooooooo mo moooo; mooooo m mooooo mooo, mooooo m mooo moooo!










CHAPTER 28. Ahab.
MOOOOOO mo. Mooo.







For several days after leaving Nantucket, nothing above hatches was seen
Moo moooooo mooo moooo moooooo Moooooooo, moooooo moooo moooooo moo mooo

of Captain Ahab. The mates regularly relieved each other at the watches,
mo Moooooo Mooo. Moo moooo moooooooo mooooooo mooo moooo mo moo moooooo,

and for aught that could be seen to the contrary, they seemed to be the
moo moo moooo mooo moooo mo mooo mo moo mooooooo, mooo mooooo mo mo moo

only commanders of the ship; only they sometimes issued from the cabin
mooo mooooooooo mo moo mooo; mooo mooo moooooooo mooooo mooo moo moooo

with orders so sudden and peremptory, that after all it was plain they
mooo mooooo mo mooooo moo mooooooooo, mooo moooo moo mo moo moooo mooo

but commanded vicariously. Yes, their supreme lord and dictator was
moo moooooooo moooooooooo. Moo, moooo moooooo mooo moo mooooooo moo

there, though hitherto unseen by any eyes not permitted to penetrate
moooo, mooooo mooooooo mooooo mo moo mooo moo moooooooo mo moooooooo

into the now sacred retreat of the cabin.
mooo moo moo mooooo moooooo mo moo moooo.




Every time I ascended to the deck from my watches below, I instantly
Moooo mooo M mooooooo mo moo mooo mooo mo moooooo moooo, M moooooooo

gazed aft to mark if any strange face were visible; for my first vague
moooo moo mo mooo mo moo moooooo mooo mooo moooooo; moo mo moooo moooo

disquietude touching the unknown captain, now in the seclusion of the
moooooooooo mooooooo moo moooooo moooooo, moo mo moo moooooooo mo moo

sea, became almost a perturbation. This was strangely heightened
moo, mooooo mooooo m mooooooooooo. Mooo moo moooooooo mooooooooo

at times by the ragged Elijah's diabolical incoherences uninvitedly
mo moooo mo moo mooooo Mooooo'm mooooooooo mooooooooooo moooooooooo

recurring to me, with a subtle energy I could not have before conceived
moooooooo mo mo, mooo m mooooo mooooo M moooo moo mooo mooooo moooooooo

of. But poorly could I withstand them, much as in other moods I was
mo. Moo mooooo moooo M moooooooo mooo, mooo mo mo moooo moooo M moo

almost ready to smile at the solemn whimsicalities of that outlandish
mooooo moooo mo moooo mo moo mooooo mooooooooooooo mo mooo mooooooooo

prophet of the wharves. But whatever it was of apprehensiveness or
moooooo mo moo moooooo. Moo mooooooo mo moo mo mooooooooooooooo mo

uneasiness--to call it so--which I felt, yet whenever I came to look
mooooooooo--mo mooo mo mo--moooo M mooo, moo mooooooo M mooo mo mooo

about me in the ship, it seemed against all warrantry to cherish such
moooo mo mo moo mooo, mo mooooo moooooo moo moooooooo mo moooooo mooo

emotions. For though the harpooneers, with the great body of the crew,
mooooooo. Moo mooooo moo moooooooooo, mooo moo moooo mooo mo moo mooo,

were a far more barbaric, heathenish, and motley set than any of the
mooo m moo mooo mooooooo, mooooooooo, moo mooooo moo mooo moo mo moo

tame merchant-ship companies which my previous experiences had made me
mooo mooooooo-mooo moooooooo moooo mo mooooooo moooooooooo moo mooo mo

acquainted with, still I ascribed this--and rightly ascribed it--to the
mooooooooo mooo, moooo M mooooooo mooo--moo moooooo mooooooo mo--mo moo

fierce uniqueness of the very nature of that wild Scandinavian vocation
mooooo mooooooooo mo moo mooo mooooo mo mooo mooo Mooooooooooo mooooooo

in which I had so abandonedly embarked. But it was especially the aspect
mo moooo M moo mo moooooooooo mooooooo. Moo mo moo mooooooooo moo mooooo

of the three chief officers of the ship, the mates, which was most
mo moo moooo moooo mooooooo mo moo mooo, moo moooo, moooo moo mooo

forcibly calculated to allay these colourless misgivings, and induce
mooooooo mooooooooo mo moooo moooo mooooooooo mooooooooo, moo mooooo

confidence and cheerfulness in every presentment of the voyage. Three
mooooooooo moo mooooooooooo mo moooo moooooooooo mo moo mooooo. Moooo

better, more likely sea-officers and men, each in his own different way,
mooooo, mooo mooooo moo-mooooooo moo moo, mooo mo moo moo moooooooo moo,

could not readily be found, and they were every one of them Americans; a
moooo moo moooooo mo moooo, moo mooo mooo moooo moo mo mooo Moooooooo; m

Nantucketer, a Vineyarder, a Cape man. Now, it being Christmas when the
Moooooooooo, m Mooooooooo, m Mooo moo. Moo, mo moooo Moooooooo mooo moo

ship shot from out her harbor, for a space we had biting Polar weather,
mooo mooo mooo moo moo mooooo, moo m moooo mo moo mooooo Moooo moooooo,

though all the time running away from it to the southward; and by every
mooooo moo moo mooo moooooo mooo mooo mo mo moo moooooooo; moo mo moooo

degree and minute of latitude which we sailed, gradually leaving that
mooooo moo mooooo mo mooooooo moooo mo mooooo, moooooooo moooooo mooo

merciless winter, and all its intolerable weather behind us. It was one
moooooooo mooooo, moo moo moo moooooooooo moooooo mooooo mo. Mo moo moo

of those less lowering, but still grey and gloomy enough mornings of the
mo moooo mooo mooooooo, moo moooo mooo moo mooooo mooooo mooooooo mo moo

transition, when with a fair wind the ship was rushing through the water
mooooooooo, mooo mooo m mooo mooo moo mooo moo moooooo moooooo moo moooo

with a vindictive sort of leaping and melancholy rapidity, that as I
mooo m mooooooooo mooo mo moooooo moo mooooooooo mooooooo, mooo mo M

mounted to the deck at the call of the forenoon watch, so soon as I
moooooo mo moo mooo mo moo mooo mo moo mooooooo moooo, mo mooo mo M

levelled my glance towards the taffrail, foreboding shivers ran over me.
mooooooo mo mooooo moooooo moo mooooooo, mooooooooo moooooo moo mooo mo.

Reality outran apprehension; Captain Ahab stood upon his quarter-deck.
Moooooo mooooo mooooooooooo; Moooooo Mooo moooo mooo moo moooooo-mooo.




There seemed no sign of common bodily illness about him, nor of the
Moooo mooooo mo mooo mo mooooo mooooo moooooo moooo moo, moo mo moo

recovery from any. He looked like a man cut away from the stake, when
mooooooo mooo moo. Mo mooooo mooo m moo moo mooo mooo moo moooo, mooo

the fire has overrunningly wasted all the limbs without consuming them,
moo mooo moo moooooooooooo mooooo moo moo moooo moooooo moooooooo mooo,

or taking away one particle from their compacted aged robustness. His
mo mooooo mooo moo mooooooo mooo moooo moooooooo mooo mooooooooo. Moo

whole high, broad form, seemed made of solid bronze, and shaped in an
moooo mooo, moooo mooo, mooooo mooo mo moooo mooooo, moo mooooo mo mo

unalterable mould, like Cellini's cast Perseus. Threading its way out
moooooooooo moooo, mooo Moooooo'm mooo Moooooo. Moooooooo moo moo moo

from among his grey hairs, and continuing right down one side of his
mooo moooo moo mooo moooo, moo mooooooooo moooo mooo moo mooo mo moo

tawny scorched face and neck, till it disappeared in his clothing,
moooo mooooooo mooo moo mooo, mooo mo moooooooooo mo moo mooooooo,

you saw a slender rod-like mark, lividly whitish. It resembled that
moo moo m moooooo moo-mooo mooo, moooooo moooooo. Mo moooooooo mooo

perpendicular seam sometimes made in the straight, lofty trunk of
moooooooooooo mooo moooooooo mooo mo moo mooooooo, moooo moooo mo

a great tree, when the upper lightning tearingly darts down it, and
m moooo mooo, mooo moo moooo moooooooo moooooooo moooo mooo mo, moo

without wrenching a single twig, peels and grooves out the bark from top
moooooo moooooooo m mooooo mooo, moooo moo moooooo moo moo mooo mooo moo

to bottom, ere running off into the soil, leaving the tree still greenly
mo mooooo, moo moooooo moo mooo moo mooo, moooooo moo mooo moooo moooooo

alive, but branded. Whether that mark was born with him, or whether it
moooo, moo moooooo. Moooooo mooo mooo moo mooo mooo moo, mo moooooo mo

was the scar left by some desperate wound, no one could certainly say.
moo moo mooo mooo mo mooo moooooooo moooo, mo moo moooo moooooooo moo.

By some tacit consent, throughout the voyage little or no allusion was
Mo mooo moooo moooooo, mooooooooo moo mooooo mooooo mo mo mooooooo moo

made to it, especially by the mates. But once Tashtego's senior, an old
mooo mo mo, mooooooooo mo moo moooo. Moo mooo Mooooooo'm mooooo, mo moo

Gay-Head Indian among the crew, superstitiously asserted that not till
Moo-Mooo Mooooo moooo moo mooo, moooooooooooooo mooooooo mooo moo mooo

he was full forty years old did Ahab become that way branded, and
mo moo mooo moooo moooo moo moo Mooo mooooo mooo moo moooooo, moo

then it came upon him, not in the fury of any mortal fray, but in
mooo mo mooo mooo moo, moo mo moo mooo mo moo mooooo mooo, moo mo

an elemental strife at sea. Yet, this wild hint seemed inferentially
mo moooooooo mooooo mo moo. Moo, mooo mooo mooo mooooo moooooooooooo

negatived, by what a grey Manxman insinuated, an old sepulchral man,
moooooooo, mo mooo m mooo Moooooo mooooooooo, mo moo mooooooooo moo,

who, having never before sailed out of Nantucket, had never ere this
moo, mooooo moooo mooooo mooooo moo mo Moooooooo, moo moooo moo mooo

laid eye upon wild Ahab. Nevertheless, the old sea-traditions, the
mooo moo mooo mooo Mooo. Mooooooooooo, moo moo moo-mooooooooo, moo

immemorial credulities, popularly invested this old Manxman with
mooooooooo moooooooooo, moooooooo mooooooo mooo moo Moooooo mooo

preternatural powers of discernment. So that no white sailor seriously
moooooooooooo mooooo mo moooooooooo. Mo mooo mo moooo mooooo moooooooo

contradicted him when he said that if ever Captain Ahab should
mooooooooooo moo mooo mo mooo mooo mo mooo Moooooo Mooo mooooo

be tranquilly laid out--which might hardly come to pass, so he
mo mooooooooo mooo moo--moooo moooo mooooo mooo mo mooo, mo mo

muttered--then, whoever should do that last office for the dead, would
mooooooo--mooo, moooooo mooooo mo mooo mooo mooooo moo moo mooo, moooo

find a birth-mark on him from crown to sole.
mooo m moooo-mooo mo moo mooo moooo mo mooo.




So powerfully did the whole grim aspect of Ahab affect me, and the livid
Mo mooooooooo moo moo moooo mooo mooooo mo Mooo mooooo mo, moo moo moooo

brand which streaked it, that for the first few moments I hardly noted
moooo moooo mooooooo mo, mooo moo moo moooo moo moooooo M mooooo moooo

that not a little of this overbearing grimness was owing to the barbaric
mooo moo m mooooo mo mooo moooooooooo mooooooo moo moooo mo moo mooooooo

white leg upon which he partly stood. It had previously come to me that
moooo moo mooo moooo mo mooooo moooo. Mo moo mooooooooo mooo mo mo mooo

this ivory leg had at sea been fashioned from the polished bone of
mooo moooo moo moo mo moo mooo moooooooo mooo moo mooooooo mooo mo

the sperm whale's jaw. "Aye, he was dismasted off Japan," said the old
moo moooo moooo'm moo. "Moo, mo moo moooooooo moo Moooo," mooo moo moo

Gay-Head Indian once; "but like his dismasted craft, he shipped another
Moo-Mooo Mooooo mooo; "moo mooo moo moooooooo moooo, mo moooooo moooooo

mast without coming home for it. He has a quiver of 'em."
mooo moooooo mooooo mooo moo mo. Mo moo m mooooo mo 'mo."




I was struck with the singular posture he maintained. Upon each side of
M moo mooooo mooo moo mooooooo moooooo mo mooooooooo. Mooo mooo mooo mo

the Pequod's quarter deck, and pretty close to the mizzen shrouds, there
moo Mooooo'm moooooo mooo, moo mooooo moooo mo moo mooooo moooooo, moooo

was an auger hole, bored about half an inch or so, into the plank.
moo mo moooo mooo, moooo moooo mooo mo mooo mo mo, mooo moo moooo.

His bone leg steadied in that hole; one arm elevated, and holding by a
Moo mooo moo mooooooo mo mooo mooo; moo moo mooooooo, moo moooooo mo m

shroud; Captain Ahab stood erect, looking straight out beyond the
mooooo; Moooooo Mooo moooo moooo, moooooo mooooooo moo mooooo moo

ship's ever-pitching prow. There was an infinity of firmest fortitude,
mooo'm mooo-mooooooo mooo. Moooo moo mo mooooooo mo moooooo moooooooo,

a determinate, unsurrenderable wilfulness, in the fixed and fearless,
m moooooooooo, moooooooooooooo mooooooooo, mo moo moooo moo mooooooo,

forward dedication of that glance. Not a word he spoke; nor did his
moooooo mooooooooo mo mooo mooooo. Moo m mooo mo moooo; moo moo moo

officers say aught to him; though by all their minutest gestures
mooooooo moo moooo mo moo; mooooo mo moo moooo mooooooo mooooooo

and expressions, they plainly showed the uneasy, if not painful,
moo moooooooooo, mooo moooooo mooooo moo mooooo, mo moo moooooo,

consciousness of being under a troubled master-eye. And not only that,
moooooooooooo mo moooo moooo m mooooooo mooooo-moo. Moo moo mooo mooo,

but moody stricken Ahab stood before them with a crucifixion in his
moo moooo mooooooo Mooo moooo mooooo mooo mooo m moooooooooo mo moo

face; in all the nameless regal overbearing dignity of some mighty woe.
mooo; mo moo moo mooooooo moooo moooooooooo moooooo mo mooo mooooo moo.




Ere long, from his first visit in the air, he withdrew into his cabin.
Moo mooo, mooo moo moooo moooo mo moo moo, mo mooooooo mooo moo moooo.

But after that morning, he was every day visible to the crew; either
Moo moooo mooo moooooo, mo moo moooo moo moooooo mo moo mooo; mooooo

standing in his pivot-hole, or seated upon an ivory stool he had; or
mooooooo mo moo moooo-mooo, mo mooooo mooo mo moooo moooo mo moo; mo

heavily walking the deck. As the sky grew less gloomy; indeed, began to
moooooo moooooo moo mooo. Mo moo moo mooo mooo mooooo; mooooo, moooo mo

grow a little genial, he became still less and less a recluse; as
mooo m mooooo mooooo, mo mooooo moooo mooo moo mooo m moooooo; mo

if, when the ship had sailed from home, nothing but the dead wintry
mo, mooo moo mooo moo mooooo mooo mooo, moooooo moo moo mooo mooooo

bleakness of the sea had then kept him so secluded. And, by and by, it
moooooooo mo moo moo moo mooo mooo moo mo mooooooo. Moo, mo moo mo, mo

came to pass, that he was almost continually in the air; but, as yet,
mooo mo mooo, mooo mo moo mooooo moooooooooo mo moo moo; moo, mo moo,

for all that he said, or perceptibly did, on the at last sunny deck,
moo moo mooo mo mooo, mo moooooooooo moo, mo moo mo mooo moooo mooo,

he seemed as unnecessary there as another mast. But the Pequod was
mo mooooo mo moooooooooo moooo mo moooooo mooo. Moo moo Mooooo moo

only making a passage now; not regularly cruising; nearly all whaling
mooo mooooo m moooooo moo; moo moooooooo mooooooo; mooooo moo moooooo

preparatives needing supervision the mates were fully competent to, so
mooooooooooo moooooo moooooooooo moo moooo mooo moooo moooooooo mo, mo

that there was little or nothing, out of himself, to employ or excite
mooo moooo moo mooooo mo moooooo, moo mo moooooo, mo mooooo mo mooooo

Ahab, now; and thus chase away, for that one interval, the clouds that
Mooo, moo; moo mooo moooo mooo, moo mooo moo mooooooo, moo mooooo mooo

layer upon layer were piled upon his brow, as ever all clouds choose the
moooo mooo moooo mooo moooo mooo moo mooo, mo mooo moo mooooo mooooo moo

loftiest peaks to pile themselves upon.
mooooooo moooo mo mooo mooooooooo mooo.




Nevertheless, ere long, the warm, warbling persuasiveness of the
Mooooooooooo, moo mooo, moo mooo, mooooooo mooooooooooooo mo moo

pleasant, holiday weather we came to, seemed gradually to charm him from
mooooooo, moooooo moooooo mo mooo mo, mooooo moooooooo mo moooo moo mooo

his mood. For, as when the red-cheeked, dancing girls, April and May,
moo mooo. Moo, mo mooo moo moo-moooooo, moooooo moooo, Moooo moo Moo,

trip home to the wintry, misanthropic woods; even the barest, ruggedest,
mooo mooo mo moo mooooo, mooooooooooo moooo; mooo moo mooooo, moooooooo,

most thunder-cloven old oak will at least send forth some few green
mooo moooooo-mooooo moo moo mooo mo moooo mooo moooo mooo moo moooo

sprouts, to welcome such glad-hearted visitants; so Ahab did, in the
moooooo, mo moooooo mooo mooo-moooooo moooooooo; mo Mooo moo, mo moo

end, a little respond to the playful allurings of that girlish air. More
moo, m mooooo moooooo mo moo moooooo moooooooo mo mooo moooooo moo. Mooo

than once did he put forth the faint blossom of a look, which, in any
mooo mooo moo mo moo moooo moo moooo moooooo mo m mooo, moooo, mo moo

other man, would have soon flowered out in a smile.
moooo moo, moooo mooo mooo mooooooo moo mo m moooo.










CHAPTER 29. Enter Ahab; to Him, Stubb.
MOOOOOO mo. Moooo Mooo; mo Moo, Moooo.







Some days elapsed, and ice and icebergs all astern, the Pequod now
Mooo mooo moooooo, moo moo moo mooooooo moo mooooo, moo Mooooo moo

went rolling through the bright Quito spring, which, at sea, almost
mooo moooooo moooooo moo mooooo Moooo mooooo, moooo, mo moo, mooooo

perpetually reigns on the threshold of the eternal August of the Tropic.
moooooooooo mooooo mo moo moooooooo mo moo moooooo Mooooo mo moo Mooooo.

The warmly cool, clear, ringing, perfumed, overflowing, redundant days,
Moo mooooo mooo, moooo, moooooo, mooooooo, moooooooooo, moooooooo mooo,

were as crystal goblets of Persian sherbet, heaped up--flaked up, with
mooo mo moooooo moooooo mo Moooooo moooooo, mooooo mo--mooooo mo, mooo

rose-water snow. The starred and stately nights seemed haughty dames in
mooo-moooo mooo. Moo moooooo moo moooooo mooooo mooooo moooooo moooo mo

jewelled velvets, nursing at home in lonely pride, the memory of their
mooooooo moooooo, moooooo mo mooo mo mooooo moooo, moo mooooo mo moooo

absent conquering Earls, the golden helmeted suns! For sleeping man,
mooooo mooooooooo Moooo, moo mooooo mooooooo mooo! Moo mooooooo moo,

'twas hard to choose between such winsome days and such seducing nights.
'mooo mooo mo mooooo moooooo mooo moooooo mooo moo mooo mooooooo mooooo.

But all the witcheries of that unwaning weather did not merely lend new
Moo moo moo mooooooooo mo mooo mooooooo moooooo moo moo mooooo mooo moo

spells and potencies to the outward world. Inward they turned upon the
mooooo moo moooooooo mo moo moooooo moooo. Mooooo mooo mooooo mooo moo

soul, especially when the still mild hours of eve came on; then, memory
mooo, mooooooooo mooo moo moooo mooo moooo mo moo mooo mo; mooo, mooooo

shot her crystals as the clear ice most forms of noiseless twilights.
mooo moo mooooooo mo moo moooo moo mooo moooo mo moooooooo moooooooo.

And all these subtle agencies, more and more they wrought on Ahab's
Moo moo moooo mooooo mooooooo, mooo moo mooo mooo moooooo mo Mooo'm

texture.
moooooo.




Old age is always wakeful; as if, the longer linked with life, the less
Moo moo mo mooooo moooooo; mo mo, moo mooooo mooooo mooo mooo, moo mooo

man has to do with aught that looks like death. Among sea-commanders,
moo moo mo mo mooo moooo mooo moooo mooo moooo. Moooo moo-mooooooooo,

the old greybeards will oftenest leave their berths to visit the
moo moo mooooooooo mooo mooooooo moooo moooo mooooo mo moooo moo

night-cloaked deck. It was so with Ahab; only that now, of late, he
moooo-moooooo mooo. Mo moo mo mooo Mooo; mooo mooo moo, mo mooo, mo

seemed so much to live in the open air, that truly speaking, his visits
mooooo mo mooo mo mooo mo moo mooo moo, mooo moooo mooooooo, moo mooooo

were more to the cabin, than from the cabin to the planks. "It feels
mooo mooo mo moo moooo, mooo mooo moo moooo mo moo mooooo. "Mo moooo

like going down into one's tomb,"--he would mutter to himself--"for an
mooo moooo mooo mooo moo'm mooo,"--mo moooo mooooo mo moooooo--"moo mo

old captain like me to be descending this narrow scuttle, to go to my
moo moooooo mooo mo mo mo mooooooooo mooo mooooo moooooo, mo mo mo mo

grave-dug berth."
moooo-moo moooo."




So, almost every twenty-four hours, when the watches of the night were
Mo, mooooo moooo mooooo-mooo moooo, mooo moo moooooo mo moo moooo mooo

set, and the band on deck sentinelled the slumbers of the band below;
moo, moo moo mooo mo mooo moooooooooo moo mooooooo mo moo mooo moooo;

and when if a rope was to be hauled upon the forecastle, the sailors
moo mooo mo m mooo moo mo mo mooooo mooo moo mooooooooo, moo moooooo

flung it not rudely down, as by day, but with some cautiousness dropt
moooo mo moo mooooo mooo, mo mo moo, moo mooo mooo mooooooooooo moooo

it to its place for fear of disturbing their slumbering shipmates; when
mo mo moo moooo moo mooo mo mooooooooo moooo mooooooooo moooooooo; mooo

this sort of steady quietude would begin to prevail, habitually, the
mooo mooo mo mooooo mooooooo moooo moooo mo moooooo, mooooooooo, moo

silent steersman would watch the cabin-scuttle; and ere long the old man
mooooo moooooooo moooo moooo moo moooo-moooooo; moo moo mooo moo moo moo

would emerge, gripping at the iron banister, to help his crippled way.
moooo mooooo, mooooooo mo moo mooo mooooooo, mo mooo moo mooooooo moo.

Some considering touch of humanity was in him; for at times like these,
Mooo moooooooooo moooo mo mooooooo moo mo moo; moo mo moooo mooo moooo,

he usually abstained from patrolling the quarter-deck; because to his
mo moooooo moooooooo mooo mooooooooo moo moooooo-mooo; moooooo mo moo

wearied mates, seeking repose within six inches of his ivory heel, such
moooooo moooo, moooooo mooooo mooooo moo mooooo mo moo moooo mooo, mooo

would have been the reverberating crack and din of that bony step, that
moooo mooo mooo moo moooooooooooo moooo moo moo mo mooo mooo mooo, mooo

their dreams would have been on the crunching teeth of sharks. But once,
moooo mooooo moooo mooo mooo mo moo moooooooo moooo mo mooooo. Moo mooo,

the mood was on him too deep for common regardings; and as with heavy,
moo mooo moo mo moo moo mooo moo mooooo mooooooooo; moo mo mooo moooo,

lumber-like pace he was measuring the ship from taffrail to mainmast,
mooooo-mooo mooo mo moo moooooooo moo mooo mooo mooooooo mo mooooooo,

Stubb, the old second mate, came up from below, with a certain
Moooo, moo moo mooooo mooo, mooo mo mooo moooo, mooo m moooooo

unassured, deprecating humorousness, hinted that if Captain Ahab was
moooooooo, moooooooooo mooooooooooo, mooooo mooo mo Moooooo Mooo moo

pleased to walk the planks, then, no one could say nay; but there might
moooooo mo mooo moo mooooo, mooo, mo moo moooo moo moo; moo moooo moooo

be some way of muffling the noise; hinting something indistinctly and
mo mooo moo mo mooooooo moo moooo; moooooo moooooooo mooooooooooo moo

hesitatingly about a globe of tow, and the insertion into it, of the
mooooooooooo moooo m moooo mo moo, moo moo moooooooo mooo mo, mo moo

ivory heel. Ah! Stubb, thou didst not know Ahab then.
moooo mooo. Mo! Moooo, mooo moooo moo mooo Mooo mooo.




"Am I a cannon-ball, Stubb," said Ahab, "that thou wouldst wad me that
"Mo M m mooooo-mooo, Moooo," mooo Mooo, "mooo mooo moooooo moo mo mooo

fashion? But go thy ways; I had forgot. Below to thy nightly grave;
moooooo? Moo mo moo mooo; M moo mooooo. Moooo mo moo moooooo moooo;

where such as ye sleep between shrouds, to use ye to the filling one at
moooo mooo mo mo moooo moooooo moooooo, mo moo mo mo moo moooooo moo mo

last.--Down, dog, and kennel!"
mooo.--Mooo, moo, moo mooooo!"




Starting at the unforseen concluding exclamation of the so suddenly
Mooooooo mo moo moooooooo mooooooooo moooooooooo mo moo mo mooooooo

scornful old man, Stubb was speechless a moment; then said excitedly, "I
mooooooo moo moo, Moooo moo mooooooooo m mooooo; mooo mooo moooooooo, "M

am not used to be spoken to that way, sir; I do but less than half like
mo moo mooo mo mo mooooo mo mooo moo, moo; M mo moo mooo mooo mooo mooo

it, sir."
mo, moo."




"Avast! gritted Ahab between his set teeth, and violently moving away,
"Moooo! moooooo Mooo moooooo moo moo moooo, moo moooooooo mooooo mooo,

as if to avoid some passionate temptation.
mo mo mo moooo mooo mooooooooo mooooooooo.




"No, sir; not yet," said Stubb, emboldened, "I will not tamely be called
"Mo, moo; moo moo," mooo Moooo, mooooooooo, "M mooo moo mooooo mo mooooo

a dog, sir."
m moo, moo."




"Then be called ten times a donkey, and a mule, and an ass, and begone,
"Mooo mo mooooo moo moooo m mooooo, moo m mooo, moo mo moo, moo mooooo,

or I'll clear the world of thee!"
mo M'mo moooo moo moooo mo mooo!"




As he said this, Ahab advanced upon him with such overbearing terrors in
Mo mo mooo mooo, Mooo mooooooo mooo moo mooo mooo moooooooooo moooooo mo

his aspect, that Stubb involuntarily retreated.
moo mooooo, mooo Moooo moooooooooooo moooooooo.




"I was never served so before without giving a hard blow for it,"
"M moo moooo mooooo mo mooooo moooooo mooooo m mooo mooo moo mo,"

muttered Stubb, as he found himself descending the cabin-scuttle. "It's
mooooooo Moooo, mo mo moooo moooooo mooooooooo moo moooo-moooooo. "Mo'm

very queer. Stop, Stubb; somehow, now, I don't well know whether to go
mooo moooo. Mooo, Moooo; moooooo, moo, M moo'm mooo mooo moooooo mo mo

back and strike him, or--what's that?--down here on my knees and pray
mooo moo mooooo moo, mo--mooo'm mooo?--mooo mooo mo mo moooo moo mooo

for him? Yes, that was the thought coming up in me; but it would be the
moo moo? Moo, mooo moo moo moooooo mooooo mo mo mo; moo mo moooo mo moo

first time I ever DID pray. It's queer; very queer; and he's queer too;
moooo mooo M mooo MOO mooo. Mo'm moooo; mooo moooo; moo mo'm moooo moo;

aye, take him fore and aft, he's about the queerest old man Stubb ever
moo, mooo moo mooo moo moo, mo'm moooo moo mooooooo moo moo Moooo mooo

sailed with. How he flashed at me!--his eyes like powder-pans! is he
mooooo mooo. Moo mo moooooo mo mo!--moo mooo mooo mooooo-mooo! mo mo

mad? Anyway there's something on his mind, as sure as there must be
moo? Mooooo moooo'm moooooooo mo moo mooo, mo mooo mo moooo mooo mo

something on a deck when it cracks. He aint in his bed now, either, more
moooooooo mo m mooo mooo mo mooooo. Mo mooo mo moo moo moo, mooooo, mooo

than three hours out of the twenty-four; and he don't sleep then. Didn't
mooo moooo moooo moo mo moo mooooo-mooo; moo mo moo'm moooo mooo. Mooo'm

that Dough-Boy, the steward, tell me that of a morning he always finds
mooo Moooo-Moo, moo moooooo, mooo mo mooo mo m moooooo mo mooooo moooo

the old man's hammock clothes all rumpled and tumbled, and the sheets
moo moo moo'm moooooo moooooo moo moooooo moo moooooo, moo moo mooooo

down at the foot, and the coverlid almost tied into knots, and the
mooo mo moo mooo, moo moo mooooooo mooooo mooo mooo moooo, moo moo

pillow a sort of frightful hot, as though a baked brick had been on
mooooo m mooo mo moooooooo moo, mo mooooo m moooo moooo moo mooo mo

it? A hot old man! I guess he's got what some folks ashore call
mo? M moo moo moo! M moooo mo'm moo mooo mooo moooo mooooo mooo

a conscience; it's a kind of Tic-Dolly-row they say--worse nor a
m mooooooooo; mo'm m mooo mo Moo-Moooo-moo mooo moo--moooo moo m

toothache. Well, well; I don't know what it is, but the Lord keep me
moooooooo. Mooo, mooo; M moo'm mooo mooo mo mo, moo moo Mooo mooo mo

from catching it. He's full of riddles; I wonder what he goes into the
mooo mooooooo mo. Mo'm mooo mo moooooo; M mooooo mooo mo mooo mooo moo

after hold for, every night, as Dough-Boy tells me he suspects; what's
moooo mooo moo, moooo moooo, mo Moooo-Moo moooo mo mo mooooooo; mooo'm

that for, I should like to know? Who's made appointments with him in
mooo moo, M mooooo mooo mo mooo? Moo'm mooo mooooooooooo mooo moo mo

the hold? Ain't that queer, now? But there's no telling, it's the old
moo mooo? Moo'm mooo moooo, moo? Moo moooo'm mo moooooo, mo'm moo moo

game--Here goes for a snooze. Damn me, it's worth a fellow's while to be
mooo--Mooo mooo moo m mooooo. Mooo mo, mo'm moooo m mooooo'm moooo mo mo

born into the world, if only to fall right asleep. And now that I think
mooo mooo moo moooo, mo mooo mo mooo moooo mooooo. Moo moo mooo M moooo

of it, that's about the first thing babies do, and that's a sort of
mo mo, mooo'm moooo moo moooo moooo mooooo mo, moo mooo'm m mooo mo

queer, too. Damn me, but all things are queer, come to think of 'em. But
moooo, moo. Mooo mo, moo moo mooooo moo moooo, mooo mo moooo mo 'mo. Moo

that's against my principles. Think not, is my eleventh commandment; and
mooo'm moooooo mo mooooooooo. Moooo moo, mo mo mooooooo moooooooooo; moo

sleep when you can, is my twelfth--So here goes again. But how's that?
moooo mooo moo moo, mo mo moooooo--Mo mooo mooo moooo. Moo moo'm mooo?

didn't he call me a dog? blazes! he called me ten times a donkey, and
mooo'm mo mooo mo m moo? mooooo! mo mooooo mo moo moooo m mooooo, moo

piled a lot of jackasses on top of THAT! He might as well have kicked
moooo m moo mo moooooooo mo moo mo MOOO! Mo moooo mo mooo mooo mooooo

me, and done with it. Maybe he DID kick me, and I didn't observe it,
mo, moo mooo mooo mo. Moooo mo MOO mooo mo, moo M mooo'm moooooo mo,

I was so taken all aback with his brow, somehow. It flashed like a
M moo mo moooo moo moooo mooo moo mooo, moooooo. Mo moooooo mooo m

bleached bone. What the devil's the matter with me? I don't stand right
mooooooo mooo. Mooo moo moooo'm moo mooooo mooo mo? M moo'm moooo moooo

on my legs. Coming afoul of that old man has a sort of turned me wrong
mo mo mooo. Mooooo moooo mo mooo moo moo moo m mooo mo mooooo mo moooo

side out. By the Lord, I must have been dreaming, though--How? how?
mooo moo. Mo moo Mooo, M mooo mooo mooo mooooooo, mooooo--Moo? moo?

how?--but the only way's to stash it; so here goes to hammock again;
moo?--moo moo mooo moo'm mo moooo mo; mo mooo mooo mo moooooo moooo;

and in the morning, I'll see how this plaguey juggling thinks over by
moo mo moo moooooo, M'mo moo moo mooo moooooo mooooooo mooooo mooo mo

daylight."
mooooooo."










CHAPTER 30. The Pipe.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Mooo.







When Stubb had departed, Ahab stood for a while leaning over the
Mooo Moooo moo mooooooo, Mooo moooo moo m moooo moooooo mooo moo

bulwarks; and then, as had been usual with him of late, calling a sailor
mooooooo; moo mooo, mo moo mooo moooo mooo moo mo mooo, moooooo m mooooo

of the watch, he sent him below for his ivory stool, and also his pipe.
mo moo moooo, mo mooo moo moooo moo moo moooo moooo, moo mooo moo mooo.

Lighting the pipe at the binnacle lamp and planting the stool on the
Mooooooo moo mooo mo moo mooooooo mooo moo mooooooo moo moooo mo moo

weather side of the deck, he sat and smoked.
moooooo mooo mo moo mooo, mo moo moo mooooo.




In old Norse times, the thrones of the sea-loving Danish kings were
Mo moo Moooo moooo, moo moooooo mo moo moo-mooooo Mooooo moooo mooo

fabricated, saith tradition, of the tusks of the narwhale. How could one
mooooooooo, moooo moooooooo, mo moo moooo mo moo mooooooo. Moo moooo moo

look at Ahab then, seated on that tripod of bones, without bethinking
mooo mo Mooo mooo, mooooo mo mooo mooooo mo moooo, moooooo mooooooooo

him of the royalty it symbolized? For a Khan of the plank, and a king of
moo mo moo moooooo mo mooooooooo? Moo m Mooo mo moo moooo, moo m mooo mo

the sea, and a great lord of Leviathans was Ahab.
moo moo, moo m moooo mooo mo Mooooooooo moo Mooo.




Some moments passed, during which the thick vapour came from his mouth
Mooo moooooo mooooo, mooooo moooo moo moooo mooooo mooo mooo moo moooo

in quick and constant puffs, which blew back again into his face. "How
mo moooo moo mooooooo moooo, moooo mooo mooo moooo mooo moo mooo. "Moo

now," he soliloquized at last, withdrawing the tube, "this smoking no
moo," mo mooooooooooo mo mooo, moooooooooo moo mooo, "mooo moooooo mo

longer soothes. Oh, my pipe! hard must it go with me if thy charm be
mooooo moooooo. Mo, mo mooo! mooo mooo mo mo mooo mo mo moo moooo mo

gone! Here have I been unconsciously toiling, not pleasuring--aye, and
mooo! Mooo mooo M mooo moooooooooooo moooooo, moo mooooooooo--moo, moo

ignorantly smoking to windward all the while; to windward, and with
mooooooooo moooooo mo mooooooo moo moo moooo; mo mooooooo, moo mooo

such nervous whiffs, as if, like the dying whale, my final jets were the
mooo moooooo mooooo, mo mo, mooo moo moooo moooo, mo moooo mooo mooo moo

strongest and fullest of trouble. What business have I with this pipe?
moooooooo moo moooooo mo moooooo. Mooo mooooooo mooo M mooo mooo mooo?

This thing that is meant for sereneness, to send up mild white vapours
Mooo moooo mooo mo moooo moo mooooooooo, mo mooo mo mooo moooo moooooo

among mild white hairs, not among torn iron-grey locks like mine. I'll
moooo mooo moooo moooo, moo moooo mooo mooo-mooo moooo mooo mooo. M'mo

smoke no more--"
moooo mo mooo--"




He tossed the still lighted pipe into the sea. The fire hissed in the
Mo mooooo moo moooo moooooo mooo mooo moo moo. Moo mooo mooooo mo moo

waves; the same instant the ship shot by the bubble the sinking pipe
moooo; moo mooo moooooo moo mooo mooo mo moo mooooo moo moooooo mooo

made. With slouched hat, Ahab lurchingly paced the planks.
mooo. Mooo mooooooo moo, Mooo mooooooooo moooo moo mooooo.










CHAPTER 31. Queen Mab.
MOOOOOO mo. Moooo Moo.







Next morning Stubb accosted Flask.
Mooo moooooo Moooo mooooooo Moooo.




"Such a queer dream, King-Post, I never had. You know the old man's
"Mooo m moooo moooo, Mooo-Mooo, M moooo moo. Moo mooo moo moo moo'm

ivory leg, well I dreamed he kicked me with it; and when I tried to kick
moooo moo, mooo M moooooo mo mooooo mo mooo mo; moo mooo M moooo mo mooo

back, upon my soul, my little man, I kicked my leg right off! And then,
mooo, mooo mo mooo, mo mooooo moo, M mooooo mo moo moooo moo! Moo mooo,

presto! Ahab seemed a pyramid, and I, like a blazing fool, kept kicking
mooooo! Mooo mooooo m moooooo, moo M, mooo m moooooo mooo, mooo moooooo

at it. But what was still more curious, Flask--you know how curious all
mo mo. Moo mooo moo moooo mooo moooooo, Moooo--moo mooo moo moooooo moo

dreams are--through all this rage that I was in, I somehow seemed to be
mooooo moo--moooooo moo mooo mooo mooo M moo mo, M moooooo mooooo mo mo

thinking to myself, that after all, it was not much of an insult, that
mooooooo mo mooooo, mooo moooo moo, mo moo moo mooo mo mo mooooo, mooo

kick from Ahab. 'Why,' thinks I, 'what's the row? It's not a real leg,
mooo mooo Mooo. 'Moo,' mooooo M, 'mooo'm moo moo? Mo'm moo m mooo moo,

only a false leg.' And there's a mighty difference between a living
mooo m moooo moo.' Moo moooo'm m mooooo mooooooooo moooooo m mooooo

thump and a dead thump. That's what makes a blow from the hand, Flask,
moooo moo m mooo moooo. Mooo'm mooo moooo m mooo mooo moo mooo, Moooo,

fifty times more savage to bear than a blow from a cane. The living
moooo moooo mooo mooooo mo mooo mooo m mooo mooo m mooo. Moo mooooo

member--that makes the living insult, my little man. And thinks I to
mooooo--mooo moooo moo mooooo mooooo, mo mooooo moo. Moo mooooo M mo

myself all the while, mind, while I was stubbing my silly toes against
mooooo moo moo moooo, mooo, moooo M moo mooooooo mo moooo mooo moooooo

that cursed pyramid--so confoundedly contradictory was it all, all
mooo mooooo moooooo--mo mooooooooooo moooooooooooo moo mo moo, moo

the while, I say, I was thinking to myself, 'what's his leg now, but
moo moooo, M moo, M moo mooooooo mo mooooo, 'mooo'm moo moo moo, moo

a cane--a whalebone cane. Yes,' thinks I, 'it was only a playful
m mooo--m moooooooo mooo. Moo,' mooooo M, 'mo moo mooo m moooooo

cudgelling--in fact, only a whaleboning that he gave me--not a base
mooooooooo--mo mooo, mooo m moooooooooo mooo mo mooo mo--moo m mooo

kick. Besides,' thinks I, 'look at it once; why, the end of it--the foot
mooo. Moooooo,' mooooo M, 'mooo mo mo mooo; moo, moo moo mo mo--moo mooo

part--what a small sort of end it is; whereas, if a broad footed farmer
mooo--mooo m moooo mooo mo moo mo mo; moooooo, mo m moooo mooooo mooooo

kicked me, THERE'S a devilish broad insult. But this insult is whittled
mooooo mo, MOOOO'M m mooooooo moooo mooooo. Moo mooo mooooo mo mooooooo

down to a point only.' But now comes the greatest joke of the
mooo mo m moooo mooo.' Moo moo moooo moo mooooooo mooo mo moo

dream, Flask. While I was battering away at the pyramid, a sort of
moooo, Moooo. Moooo M moo moooooooo mooo mo moo moooooo, m mooo mo

badger-haired old merman, with a hump on his back, takes me by the
mooooo-mooooo moo mooooo, mooo m mooo mo moo mooo, moooo mo mo moo

shoulders, and slews me round. 'What are you 'bout?' says he. Slid! man,
moooooooo, moo moooo mo moooo. 'Mooo moo moo 'mooo?' mooo mo. Mooo! moo,

but I was frightened. Such a phiz! But, somehow, next moment I was over
moo M moo mooooooooo. Mooo m mooo! Moo, moooooo, mooo mooooo M moo mooo

the fright. 'What am I about?' says I at last. 'And what business is
moo mooooo. 'Mooo mo M moooo?' mooo M mo mooo. 'Moo mooo mooooooo mo

that of yours, I should like to know, Mr. Humpback? Do YOU want a kick?'
mooo mo moooo, M mooooo mooo mo mooo, Mo. Mooooooo? Mo MOO mooo m mooo?'

By the lord, Flask, I had no sooner said that, than he turned round his
Mo moo mooo, Moooo, M moo mo mooooo mooo mooo, mooo mo mooooo moooo moo

stern to me, bent over, and dragging up a lot of seaweed he had for a
moooo mo mo, mooo mooo, moo mooooooo mo m moo mo moooooo mo moo moo m

clout--what do you think, I saw?--why thunder alive, man, his stern
moooo--mooo mo moo moooo, M moo?--moo moooooo moooo, moo, moo moooo

was stuck full of marlinspikes, with the points out. Says I, on second
moo moooo mooo mo mooooooooooo, mooo moo mooooo moo. Mooo M, mo mooooo

thoughts, 'I guess I won't kick you, old fellow.' 'Wise Stubb,' said he,
mooooooo, 'M moooo M moo'm mooo moo, moo mooooo.' 'Mooo Moooo,' mooo mo,

'wise Stubb;' and kept muttering it all the time, a sort of eating of
'mooo Moooo;' moo mooo moooooooo mo moo moo mooo, m mooo mo mooooo mo

his own gums like a chimney hag. Seeing he wasn't going to stop saying
moo moo mooo mooo m moooooo moo. Mooooo mo mooo'm moooo mo mooo mooooo

over his 'wise Stubb, wise Stubb,' I thought I might as well fall to
mooo moo 'mooo Moooo, mooo Moooo,' M moooooo M moooo mo mooo mooo mo

kicking the pyramid again. But I had only just lifted my foot for it,
moooooo moo moooooo moooo. Moo M moo mooo mooo mooooo mo mooo moo mo,

when he roared out, 'Stop that kicking!' 'Halloa,' says I, 'what's
mooo mo mooooo moo, 'Mooo mooo moooooo!' 'Mooooo,' mooo M, 'mooo'm

the matter now, old fellow?' 'Look ye here,' says he; 'let's argue
moo mooooo moo, moo mooooo?' 'Mooo mo mooo,' mooo mo; 'moo'm moooo

the insult. Captain Ahab kicked ye, didn't he?' 'Yes, he did,' says
moo mooooo. Moooooo Mooo mooooo mo, mooo'm mo?' 'Moo, mo moo,' mooo

I--'right HERE it was.' 'Very good,' says he--'he used his ivory leg,
M--'moooo MOOO mo moo.' 'Mooo mooo,' mooo mo--'mo mooo moo moooo moo,

didn't he?' 'Yes, he did,' says I. 'Well then,' says he, 'wise Stubb,
mooo'm mo?' 'Moo, mo moo,' mooo M. 'Mooo mooo,' mooo mo, 'mooo Moooo,

what have you to complain of? Didn't he kick with right good will? it
mooo mooo moo mo mooooooo mo? Mooo'm mo mooo mooo moooo mooo mooo? mo

wasn't a common pitch pine leg he kicked with, was it? No, you were
mooo'm m mooooo moooo mooo moo mo mooooo mooo, moo mo? Mo, moo mooo

kicked by a great man, and with a beautiful ivory leg, Stubb. It's an
mooooo mo m moooo moo, moo mooo m moooooooo moooo moo, Moooo. Mo'm mo

honour; I consider it an honour. Listen, wise Stubb. In old England the
mooooo; M mooooooo mo mo mooooo. Mooooo, mooo Moooo. Mo moo Moooooo moo

greatest lords think it great glory to be slapped by a queen, and made
mooooooo moooo moooo mo moooo moooo mo mo moooooo mo m moooo, moo mooo

garter-knights of; but, be YOUR boast, Stubb, that ye were kicked by
mooooo-moooooo mo; moo, mo MOOO moooo, Moooo, mooo mo mooo mooooo mo

old Ahab, and made a wise man of. Remember what I say; BE kicked by him;
moo Mooo, moo mooo m mooo moo mo. Mooooooo mooo M moo; MO mooooo mo moo;

account his kicks honours; and on no account kick back; for you can't
moooooo moo moooo moooooo; moo mo mo moooooo mooo mooo; moo moo moo'm

help yourself, wise Stubb. Don't you see that pyramid?' With that, he
mooo mooooooo, mooo Moooo. Moo'm moo moo mooo moooooo?' Mooo mooo, mo

all of a sudden seemed somehow, in some queer fashion, to swim off into
moo mo m mooooo mooooo moooooo, mo mooo moooo moooooo, mo mooo moo mooo

the air. I snored; rolled over; and there I was in my hammock! Now, what
moo moo. M mooooo; mooooo mooo; moo moooo M moo mo mo moooooo! Moo, mooo

do you think of that dream, Flask?"
mo moo moooo mo mooo moooo, Moooo?"




"I don't know; it seems a sort of foolish to me, tho.'"
"M moo'm mooo; mo moooo m mooo mo moooooo mo mo, moo.'"




"May be; may be. But it's made a wise man of me, Flask. D'ye see Ahab
"Moo mo; moo mo. Moo mo'm mooo m mooo moo mo mo, Moooo. M'mo moo Mooo

standing there, sideways looking over the stern? Well, the best thing
mooooooo moooo, mooooooo moooooo mooo moo moooo? Mooo, moo mooo moooo

you can do, Flask, is to let the old man alone; never speak to him,
moo moo mo, Moooo, mo mo moo moo moo moo moooo; moooo moooo mo moo,

whatever he says. Halloa! What's that he shouts? Hark!"
mooooooo mo mooo. Mooooo! Mooo'm mooo mo mooooo? Mooo!"




"Mast-head, there! Look sharp, all of ye! There are whales hereabouts!
"Mooo-mooo, moooo! Mooo moooo, moo mo mo! Moooo moo mooooo mooooooooo!




"If ye see a white one, split your lungs for him!
"Mo mo moo m moooo moo, moooo mooo moooo moo moo!




"What do you think of that now, Flask? ain't there a small drop of
"Mooo mo moo moooo mo mooo moo, Moooo? moo'm moooo m moooo mooo mo

something queer about that, eh? A white whale--did ye mark that, man?
moooooooo moooo moooo mooo, mo? M moooo moooo--moo mo mooo mooo, moo?

Look ye--there's something special in the wind. Stand by for it, Flask.
Mooo mo--moooo'm moooooooo moooooo mo moo mooo. Moooo mo moo mo, Moooo.

Ahab has that that's bloody on his mind. But, mum; he comes this way."
Mooo moo mooo mooo'm mooooo mo moo mooo. Moo, moo; mo moooo mooo moo."










CHAPTER 32. Cetology.
MOOOOOO mo. Mooooooo.







Already we are boldly launched upon the deep; but soon we shall be lost
Moooooo mo moo mooooo mooooooo mooo moo mooo; moo mooo mo moooo mo mooo

in its unshored, harbourless immensities. Ere that come to pass; ere the
mo moo mooooooo, moooooooooo moooooooooo. Moo mooo mooo mo mooo; moo moo

Pequod's weedy hull rolls side by side with the barnacled hulls of the
Mooooo'm moooo mooo moooo mooo mo mooo mooo moo moooooooo moooo mo moo

leviathan; at the outset it is but well to attend to a matter almost
moooooooo; mo moo mooooo mo mo moo mooo mo mooooo mo m mooooo mooooo

indispensable to a thorough appreciative understanding of the more
moooooooooooo mo m mooooooo mooooooooooo moooooooooooo mo moo mooo

special leviathanic revelations and allusions of all sorts which are to
moooooo moooooooooo moooooooooo moo moooooooo mo moo moooo moooo moo mo

follow.
mooooo.




It is some systematized exhibition of the whale in his broad genera,
Mo mo mooo mooooooooooo mooooooooo mo moo moooo mo moo moooo mooooo,

that I would now fain put before you. Yet is it no easy task. The
mooo M moooo moo mooo moo mooooo moo. Moo mo mo mo mooo mooo. Moo

classification of the constituents of a chaos, nothing less is here
mooooooooooooo mo moo mooooooooooo mo m moooo, moooooo mooo mo mooo

essayed. Listen to what the best and latest authorities have laid down.
moooooo. Mooooo mo mooo moo mooo moo mooooo moooooooooo mooo mooo mooo.




"No branch of Zoology is so much involved as that which is entitled
"Mo mooooo mo Moooooo mo mo mooo mooooooo mo mooo moooo mo mooooooo

Cetology," says Captain Scoresby, A.D. 1820.
Mooooooo," mooo Moooooo Mooooooo, M.M. mooo.




"It is not my intention, were it in my power, to enter into the
"Mo mo moo mo moooooooo, mooo mo mo mo moooo, mo moooo mooo moo

inquiry as to the true method of dividing the cetacea into groups and
moooooo mo mo moo mooo mooooo mo mooooooo moo moooooo mooo mooooo moo

families.... Utter confusion exists among the historians of this animal"
mooooooo.... Moooo moooooooo mooooo moooo moo mooooooooo mo mooo mooooo"

(sperm whale), says Surgeon Beale, A.D. 1839.
(moooo moooo), mooo Moooooo Moooo, M.M. mooo.




"Unfitness to pursue our research in the unfathomable waters."
"Moooooooo mo mooooo moo mooooooo mo moo mooooooooooo mooooo."

"Impenetrable veil covering our knowledge of the cetacea." "A field
"Mooooooooooo mooo mooooooo moo moooooooo mo moo moooooo." "M moooo

strewn with thorns." "All these incomplete indications but serve to
mooooo mooo mooooo." "Moo moooo mooooooooo moooooooooo moo moooo mo

torture us naturalists."
moooooo mo moooooooooo."




Thus speak of the whale, the great Cuvier, and John Hunter, and Lesson,
Mooo moooo mo moo moooo, moo moooo Mooooo, moo Mooo Mooooo, moo Mooooo,

those lights of zoology and anatomy. Nevertheless, though of real
moooo mooooo mo moooooo moo moooooo. Mooooooooooo, mooooo mo mooo

knowledge there be little, yet of books there are a plenty; and so in
moooooooo moooo mo mooooo, moo mo moooo moooo moo m mooooo; moo mo mo

some small degree, with cetology, or the science of whales. Many are
mooo moooo mooooo, mooo mooooooo, mo moo moooooo mo mooooo. Mooo moo

the men, small and great, old and new, landsmen and seamen, who have at
moo moo, moooo moo moooo, moo moo moo, mooooooo moo mooooo, moo mooo mo

large or in little, written of the whale. Run over a few:--The Authors
moooo mo mo mooooo, moooooo mo moo moooo. Moo mooo m moo:--Moo Moooooo

of the Bible; Aristotle; Pliny; Aldrovandi; Sir Thomas Browne; Gesner;
mo moo Moooo; Moooooooo; Moooo; Mooooooooo; Moo Mooooo Mooooo; Mooooo;

Ray; Linnaeus; Rondeletius; Willoughby; Green; Artedi; Sibbald; Brisson;
Moo; Mooooooo; Moooooooooo; Mooooooooo; Moooo; Mooooo; Moooooo; Moooooo;

Marten; Lacepede; Bonneterre; Desmarest; Baron Cuvier; Frederick Cuvier;
Mooooo; Mooooooo; Mooooooooo; Moooooooo; Moooo Mooooo; Moooooooo Mooooo;

John Hunter; Owen; Scoresby; Beale; Bennett; J. Ross Browne; the
Mooo Mooooo; Mooo; Mooooooo; Moooo; Moooooo; M. Mooo Mooooo; moo

Author of Miriam Coffin; Olmstead; and the Rev. T. Cheever. But to what
Mooooo mo Mooooo Mooooo; Mooooooo; moo moo Moo. M. Moooooo. Moo mo mooo

ultimate generalizing purpose all these have written, the above cited
mooooooo mooooooooooo moooooo moo moooo mooo moooooo, moo moooo moooo

extracts will show.
mooooooo mooo mooo.




Of the names in this list of whale authors, only those following Owen
Mo moo moooo mo mooo mooo mo moooo moooooo, mooo moooo moooooooo Mooo

ever saw living whales; and but one of them was a real professional
mooo moo mooooo mooooo; moo moo moo mo mooo moo m mooo mooooooooooo

harpooneer and whaleman. I mean Captain Scoresby. On the separate
mooooooooo moo mooooooo. M mooo Moooooo Mooooooo. Mo moo mooooooo

subject of the Greenland or right-whale, he is the best existing
moooooo mo moo Moooooooo mo moooo-moooo, mo mo moo mooo mooooooo

authority. But Scoresby knew nothing and says nothing of the great
moooooooo. Moo Mooooooo mooo moooooo moo mooo moooooo mo moo moooo

sperm whale, compared with which the Greenland whale is almost unworthy
moooo moooo, mooooooo mooo moooo moo Moooooooo moooo mo mooooo mooooooo

mentioning. And here be it said, that the Greenland whale is an usurper
mooooooooo. Moo mooo mo mo mooo, mooo moo Moooooooo moooo mo mo moooooo

upon the throne of the seas. He is not even by any means the largest
mooo moo mooooo mo moo mooo. Mo mo moo mooo mo moo moooo moo moooooo

of the whales. Yet, owing to the long priority of his claims, and the
mo moo mooooo. Moo, moooo mo moo mooo mooooooo mo moo mooooo, moo moo

profound ignorance which, till some seventy years back, invested the
mooooooo moooooooo moooo, mooo mooo moooooo moooo mooo, mooooooo moo

then fabulous or utterly unknown sperm-whale, and which ignorance to
mooo mooooooo mo moooooo moooooo moooo-moooo, moo moooo moooooooo mo

this present day still reigns in all but some few scientific retreats
mooo moooooo moo moooo mooooo mo moo moo mooo moo mooooooooo mooooooo

and whale-ports; this usurpation has been every way complete. Reference
moo moooo-moooo; mooo mooooooooo moo mooo moooo moo mooooooo. Moooooooo

to nearly all the leviathanic allusions in the great poets of past days,
mo mooooo moo moo moooooooooo moooooooo mo moo moooo moooo mo mooo mooo,

will satisfy you that the Greenland whale, without one rival, was to
mooo moooooo moo mooo moo Moooooooo moooo, moooooo moo moooo, moo mo

them the monarch of the seas. But the time has at last come for a new
mooo moo moooooo mo moo mooo. Moo moo mooo moo mo mooo mooo moo m moo

proclamation. This is Charing Cross; hear ye! good people all,--the
mooooooooooo. Mooo mo Moooooo Moooo; mooo mo! mooo mooooo moo,--moo

Greenland whale is deposed,--the great sperm whale now reigneth!
Moooooooo moooo mo moooooo,--moo moooo moooo moooo moo mooooooo!




There are only two books in being which at all pretend to put the living
Moooo moo mooo moo moooo mo moooo moooo mo moo moooooo mo moo moo mooooo

sperm whale before you, and at the same time, in the remotest degree
moooo moooo mooooo moo, moo mo moo mooo mooo, mo moo mooooooo mooooo

succeed in the attempt. Those books are Beale's and Bennett's; both in
moooooo mo moo moooooo. Moooo moooo moo Moooo'm moo Moooooo'm; mooo mo

their time surgeons to English South-Sea whale-ships, and both exact and
moooo mooo mooooooo mo Moooooo Moooo-Moo moooo-moooo, moo mooo moooo moo

reliable men. The original matter touching the sperm whale to be found
mooooooo moo. Moo mooooooo mooooo mooooooo moo moooo moooo mo mo moooo

in their volumes is necessarily small; but so far as it goes, it is of
mo moooo moooooo mo moooooooooo moooo; moo mo moo mo mo mooo, mo mo mo

excellent quality, though mostly confined to scientific description. As
moooooooo moooooo, mooooo mooooo mooooooo mo mooooooooo moooooooooo. Mo

yet, however, the sperm whale, scientific or poetic, lives not complete
moo, moooooo, moo moooo moooo, mooooooooo mo mooooo, moooo moo mooooooo

in any literature. Far above all other hunted whales, his is an
mo moo mooooooooo. Moo moooo moo moooo mooooo mooooo, moo mo mo

unwritten life.
moooooooo mooo.




Now the various species of whales need some sort of popular
Moo moo moooooo moooooo mo mooooo mooo mooo mooo mo moooooo

comprehensive classification, if only an easy outline one for the
moooooooooooo mooooooooooooo, mo mooo mo mooo moooooo moo moo moo

present, hereafter to be filled in all its departments by subsequent
moooooo, moooooooo mo mo mooooo mo moo moo moooooooooo mo mooooooooo

laborers. As no better man advances to take this matter in hand, I
mooooooo. Mo mo mooooo moo mooooooo mo mooo mooo mooooo mo mooo, M

hereupon offer my own poor endeavors. I promise nothing complete;
mooooooo moooo mo moo mooo moooooooo. M moooooo moooooo mooooooo;

because any human thing supposed to be complete, must for that very
moooooo moo moooo moooo mooooooo mo mo mooooooo, mooo moo mooo mooo

reason infallibly be faulty. I shall not pretend to a minute anatomical
mooooo mooooooooo mo mooooo. M moooo moo moooooo mo m mooooo mooooooooo

description of the various species, or--in this place at least--to much
moooooooooo mo moo moooooo moooooo, mo--mo mooo moooo mo moooo--mo mooo

of any description. My object here is simply to project the draught of a
mo moo moooooooooo. Mo mooooo mooo mo mooooo mo moooooo moo moooooo mo m

systematization of cetology. I am the architect, not the builder.
moooooooooooooo mo mooooooo. M mo moo moooooooo, moo moo moooooo.




But it is a ponderous task; no ordinary letter-sorter in the Post-Office
Moo mo mo m moooooooo mooo; mo mooooooo mooooo-mooooo mo moo Mooo-Mooooo

is equal to it. To grope down into the bottom of the sea after them;
mo moooo mo mo. Mo moooo mooo mooo moo mooooo mo moo moo moooo mooo;

to have one's hands among the unspeakable foundations, ribs, and very
mo mooo moo'm moooo moooo moo moooooooooo moooooooooo, mooo, moo mooo

pelvis of the world; this is a fearful thing. What am I that I should
mooooo mo moo moooo; mooo mo m moooooo moooo. Mooo mo M mooo M mooooo

essay to hook the nose of this leviathan! The awful tauntings in Job
moooo mo mooo moo mooo mo mooo moooooooo! Moo moooo moooooooo mo Moo

might well appal me. Will he the (leviathan) make a covenant with thee?
moooo mooo moooo mo. Mooo mo moo (moooooooo) mooo m mooooooo mooo mooo?

Behold the hope of him is vain! But I have swam through libraries and
Mooooo moo mooo mo moo mo mooo! Moo M mooo mooo moooooo moooooooo moo

sailed through oceans; I have had to do with whales with these visible
mooooo moooooo mooooo; M mooo moo mo mo mooo mooooo mooo moooo moooooo

hands; I am in earnest; and I will try. There are some preliminaries to
moooo; M mo mo moooooo; moo M mooo moo. Moooo moo mooo moooooooooooo mo

settle.
mooooo.




First: The uncertain, unsettled condition of this science of Cetology
Moooo: Moo moooooooo, moooooooo moooooooo mo mooo moooooo mo Mooooooo

is in the very vestibule attested by the fact, that in some quarters it
mo mo moo mooo moooooooo mooooooo mo moo mooo, mooo mo mooo mooooooo mo

still remains a moot point whether a whale be a fish. In his System of
moooo moooooo m mooo moooo moooooo m moooo mo m mooo. Mo moo Mooooo mo

Nature, A.D. 1776, Linnaeus declares, "I hereby separate the whales from
Mooooo, M.M. mooo, Mooooooo mooooooo, "M mooooo mooooooo moo mooooo mooo

the fish." But of my own knowledge, I know that down to the year 1850,
moo mooo." Moo mo mo moo moooooooo, M mooo mooo mooo mo moo mooo mooo,

sharks and shad, alewives and herring, against Linnaeus's express edict,
mooooo moo mooo, mooooooo moo moooooo, moooooo Mooooooo'm moooooo moooo,

were still found dividing the possession of the same seas with the
mooo moooo moooo mooooooo moo mooooooooo mo moo mooo mooo mooo moo

Leviathan.
Moooooooo.




The grounds upon which Linnaeus would fain have banished the whales from
Moo moooooo mooo moooo Mooooooo moooo mooo mooo mooooooo moo mooooo mooo

the waters, he states as follows: "On account of their warm bilocular
moo mooooo, mo mooooo mo moooooo: "Mo moooooo mo moooo mooo moooooooo

heart, their lungs, their movable eyelids, their hollow ears, penem
moooo, moooo moooo, moooo moooooo moooooo, moooo mooooo mooo, moooo

intrantem feminam mammis lactantem," and finally, "ex lege naturae jure
moooooooo moooooo mooooo moooooooo," moo moooooo, "mo mooo moooooo mooo

meritoque." I submitted all this to my friends Simeon Macey and Charley
moooooooo." M moooooooo moo mooo mo mo moooooo Mooooo Moooo moo Moooooo

Coffin, of Nantucket, both messmates of mine in a certain voyage, and
Mooooo, mo Moooooooo, mooo moooooooo mo mooo mo m moooooo mooooo, moo

they united in the opinion that the reasons set forth were altogether
mooo mooooo mo moo moooooo mooo moo moooooo moo moooo mooo mooooooooo

insufficient. Charley profanely hinted they were humbug.
mooooooooooo. Moooooo moooooooo mooooo mooo mooo mooooo.




Be it known that, waiving all argument, I take the good old fashioned
Mo mo moooo mooo, moooooo moo mooooooo, M mooo moo mooo moo moooooooo

ground that the whale is a fish, and call upon holy Jonah to back me.
mooooo mooo moo moooo mo m mooo, moo mooo mooo mooo Moooo mo mooo mo.

This fundamental thing settled, the next point is, in what internal
Mooo moooooooooo moooo moooooo, moo mooo moooo mo, mo mooo mooooooo

respect does the whale differ from other fish. Above, Linnaeus has given
moooooo mooo moo moooo mooooo mooo moooo mooo. Moooo, Mooooooo moo moooo

you those items. But in brief, they are these: lungs and warm blood;
moo moooo moooo. Moo mo moooo, mooo moo moooo: moooo moo mooo moooo;

whereas, all other fish are lungless and cold blooded.
moooooo, moo moooo mooo moo mooooooo moo mooo moooooo.




Next: how shall we define the whale, by his obvious externals, so as
Mooo: moo moooo mo mooooo moo moooo, mo moo moooooo moooooooo, mo mo

conspicuously to label him for all time to come? To be short, then, a
moooooooooooo mo moooo moo moo moo mooo mo mooo? Mo mo moooo, mooo, m

whale is A SPOUTING FISH WITH A HORIZONTAL TAIL. There you have
moooo mo M MOOOOOOO MOOO MOOO M MOOOOOOOOO MOOO. Moooo moo mooo

him. However contracted, that definition is the result of expanded
moo. Moooooo mooooooooo, mooo mooooooooo mo moo mooooo mo mooooooo

meditation. A walrus spouts much like a whale, but the walrus is not a
mooooooooo. M mooooo mooooo mooo mooo m moooo, moo moo mooooo mo moo m

fish, because he is amphibious. But the last term of the definition is
mooo, moooooo mo mo mooooooooo. Moo moo mooo mooo mo moo mooooooooo mo

still more cogent, as coupled with the first. Almost any one must have
moooo mooo mooooo, mo moooooo mooo moo moooo. Mooooo moo moo mooo mooo

noticed that all the fish familiar to landsmen have not a flat, but a
moooooo mooo moo moo mooo mooooooo mo mooooooo mooo moo m mooo, moo m

vertical, or up-and-down tail. Whereas, among spouting fish the tail,
mooooooo, mo mo-moo-mooo mooo. Moooooo, moooo mooooooo mooo moo mooo,

though it may be similarly shaped, invariably assumes a horizontal
mooooo mo moo mo moooooooo mooooo, mooooooooo moooooo m mooooooooo

position.
mooooooo.




By the above definition of what a whale is, I do by no means exclude
Mo moo moooo mooooooooo mo mooo m moooo mo, M mo mo mo moooo moooooo

from the leviathanic brotherhood any sea creature hitherto identified
mooo moo moooooooooo moooooooooo moo moo mooooooo mooooooo mooooooooo

with the whale by the best informed Nantucketers; nor, on the other
mooo moo moooo mo moo mooo mooooooo Mooooooooooo; moo, mo moo moooo

hand, link with it any fish hitherto authoritatively regarded as alien.*
mooo, mooo mooo mo moo mooo mooooooo moooooooooooooo mooooooo mo moooo.*

Hence, all the smaller, spouting, and horizontal tailed fish must be
Moooo, moo moo moooooo, mooooooo, moo mooooooooo mooooo mooo mooo mo

included in this ground-plan of Cetology. Now, then, come the grand
mooooooo mo mooo mooooo-mooo mo Mooooooo. Moo, mooo, mooo moo moooo

divisions of the entire whale host.
moooooooo mo moo mooooo moooo mooo.







*I am aware that down to the present time, the fish styled Lamatins and
*M mo moooo mooo mooo mo moo moooooo mooo, moo mooo mooooo Mooooooo moo

Dugongs (Pig-fish and Sow-fish of the Coffins of Nantucket) are included
Moooooo (Moo-mooo moo Moo-mooo mo moo Moooooo mo Moooooooo) moo mooooooo

by many naturalists among the whales. But as these pig-fish are a noisy,
mo mooo moooooooooo moooo moo mooooo. Moo mo moooo moo-mooo moo m moooo,

contemptible set, mostly lurking in the mouths of rivers, and feeding on
mooooooooooo moo, mooooo moooooo mo moo mooooo mo mooooo, moo moooooo mo

wet hay, and especially as they do not spout, I deny their credentials
moo moo, moo mooooooooo mo mooo mo moo moooo, M mooo moooo moooooooooo

as whales; and have presented them with their passports to quit the
mo mooooo; moo mooo moooooooo mooo mooo moooo moooooooo mo mooo moo

Kingdom of Cetology.
Moooooo mo Mooooooo.







First: According to magnitude I divide the whales into three primary
Moooo: Moooooooo mo moooooooo M mooooo moo mooooo mooo moooo moooooo

BOOKS (subdivisible into CHAPTERS), and these shall comprehend them all,
MOOOO (mooooooooooo mooo MOOOOOOO), moo moooo moooo mooooooooo mooo moo,

both small and large.
mooo moooo moo moooo.




I. THE FOLIO WHALE; II. the OCTAVO WHALE; III. the DUODECIMO WHALE.
M. MOO MOOOO MOOOO; MO. moo MOOOOO MOOOO; MOO. moo MOOOOOOOO MOOOO.




As the type of the FOLIO I present the SPERM WHALE; of the OCTAVO, the
Mo moo mooo mo moo MOOOO M moooooo moo MOOOO MOOOO; mo moo MOOOOO, moo

GRAMPUS; of the DUODECIMO, the PORPOISE.
MOOOOOO; mo moo MOOOOOOOO, moo MOOOOOOO.




FOLIOS. Among these I here include the following chapters:--I. The SPERM
MOOOOO. Moooo moooo M mooo moooooo moo moooooooo mooooooo:--M. Moo MOOOO

WHALE; II. the RIGHT WHALE; III. the FIN-BACK WHALE; IV. the HUMP-BACKED
MOOOO; MO. moo MOOOO MOOOO; MOO. moo MOO-MOOO MOOOO; MO. moo MOOO-MOOOOO

WHALE; V. the RAZOR-BACK WHALE; VI. the SULPHUR-BOTTOM WHALE.
MOOOO; M. moo MOOOO-MOOO MOOOO; MO. moo MOOOOOO-MOOOOO MOOOO.




BOOK I. (FOLIO), CHAPTER I. (SPERM WHALE).--This whale, among the
MOOO M. (MOOOO), MOOOOOO M. (MOOOO MOOOO).--Mooo moooo, moooo moo

English of old vaguely known as the Trumpa whale, and the Physeter
Moooooo mo moo moooooo moooo mo moo Mooooo moooo, moo moo Mooooooo

whale, and the Anvil Headed whale, is the present Cachalot of the
moooo, moo moo Moooo Mooooo moooo, mo moo moooooo Mooooooo mo moo

French, and the Pottsfich of the Germans, and the Macrocephalus of the
Mooooo, moo moo Moooooooo mo moo Moooooo, moo moo Moooooooooooo mo moo

Long Words. He is, without doubt, the largest inhabitant of the globe;
Mooo Moooo. Mo mo, moooooo moooo, moo moooooo mooooooooo mo moo moooo;

the most formidable of all whales to encounter; the most majestic in
moo mooo mooooooooo mo moo mooooo mo moooooooo; moo mooo mooooooo mo

aspect; and lastly, by far the most valuable in commerce; he being
mooooo; moo mooooo, mo moo moo mooo mooooooo mo mooooooo; mo moooo

the only creature from which that valuable substance, spermaceti, is
moo mooo mooooooo mooo moooo mooo mooooooo moooooooo, mooooooooo, mo

obtained. All his peculiarities will, in many other places, be enlarged
mooooooo. Moo moo moooooooooooo mooo, mo mooo moooo mooooo, mo mooooooo

upon. It is chiefly with his name that I now have to do. Philologically
mooo. Mo mo moooooo mooo moo mooo mooo M moo mooo mo mo. Mooooooooooooo

considered, it is absurd. Some centuries ago, when the Sperm whale was
mooooooooo, mo mo mooooo. Mooo moooooooo moo, mooo moo Moooo moooo moo

almost wholly unknown in his own proper individuality, and when his oil
mooooo mooooo moooooo mo moo moo mooooo moooooooooooo, moo mooo moo moo

was only accidentally obtained from the stranded fish; in those days
moo mooo mooooooooooo mooooooo mooo moo mooooooo mooo; mo moooo mooo

spermaceti, it would seem, was popularly supposed to be derived from a
mooooooooo, mo moooo mooo, moo moooooooo mooooooo mo mo moooooo mooo m

creature identical with the one then known in England as the Greenland
mooooooo moooooooo mooo moo moo mooo moooo mo Moooooo mo moo Moooooooo

or Right Whale. It was the idea also, that this same spermaceti was that
mo Moooo Moooo. Mo moo moo mooo mooo, mooo mooo mooo mooooooooo moo mooo

quickening humor of the Greenland Whale which the first syllable of
mooooooooo moooo mo moo Moooooooo Moooo moooo moo moooo mooooooo mo

the word literally expresses. In those times, also, spermaceti was
moo mooo moooooooo moooooooo. Mo moooo moooo, mooo, mooooooooo moo

exceedingly scarce, not being used for light, but only as an ointment
moooooooooo mooooo, moo moooo mooo moo moooo, moo mooo mo mo mooooooo

and medicament. It was only to be had from the druggists as you nowadays
moo mooooooooo. Mo moo mooo mo mo moo mooo moo moooooooo mo moo mooooooo

buy an ounce of rhubarb. When, as I opine, in the course of time, the
moo mo moooo mo moooooo. Mooo, mo M moooo, mo moo mooooo mo mooo, moo

true nature of spermaceti became known, its original name was still
mooo mooooo mo mooooooooo mooooo moooo, moo mooooooo mooo moo moooo

retained by the dealers; no doubt to enhance its value by a notion so
mooooooo mo moo moooooo; mo moooo mo moooooo moo moooo mo m mooooo mo

strangely significant of its scarcity. And so the appellation must at
moooooooo moooooooooo mo moo mooooooo. Moo mo moo moooooooooo mooo mo

last have come to be bestowed upon the whale from which this spermaceti
mooo mooo mooo mo mo mooooooo mooo moo moooo mooo moooo mooo mooooooooo

was really derived.
moo mooooo moooooo.




BOOK I. (FOLIO), CHAPTER II. (RIGHT WHALE).--In one respect this is the
MOOO M. (MOOOO), MOOOOOO MO. (MOOOO MOOOO).--Mo moo moooooo mooo mo moo

most venerable of the leviathans, being the one first regularly hunted
mooo moooooooo mo moo mooooooooo, moooo moo moo moooo moooooooo mooooo

by man. It yields the article commonly known as whalebone or baleen; and
mo moo. Mo mooooo moo moooooo mooooooo moooo mo moooooooo mo mooooo; moo

the oil specially known as "whale oil," an inferior article in commerce.
moo moo moooooooo moooo mo "moooo moo," mo mooooooo moooooo mo mooooooo.

Among the fishermen, he is indiscriminately designated by all the
Moooo moo moooooooo, mo mo mooooooooooooooo mooooooooo mo moo moo

following titles: The Whale; the Greenland Whale; the Black Whale;
moooooooo mooooo: Moo Moooo; moo Moooooooo Moooo; moo Moooo Moooo;

the Great Whale; the True Whale; the Right Whale. There is a deal of
moo Moooo Moooo; moo Mooo Moooo; moo Moooo Moooo. Moooo mo m mooo mo

obscurity concerning the identity of the species thus multitudinously
moooooooo mooooooooo moo mooooooo mo moo moooooo mooo moooooooooooooo

baptised. What then is the whale, which I include in the second species
mooooooo. Mooo mooo mo moo moooo, moooo M moooooo mo moo mooooo moooooo

of my Folios? It is the Great Mysticetus of the English naturalists; the
mo mo Mooooo? Mo mo moo Moooo Mooooooooo mo moo Moooooo moooooooooo; moo

Greenland Whale of the English whalemen; the Baliene Ordinaire of the
Moooooooo Moooo mo moo Moooooo mooooooo; moo Moooooo Moooooooo mo moo

French whalemen; the Growlands Walfish of the Swedes. It is the whale
Mooooo mooooooo; moo Moooooooo Moooooo mo moo Mooooo. Mo mo moo moooo

which for more than two centuries past has been hunted by the Dutch and
moooo moo mooo mooo moo moooooooo mooo moo mooo mooooo mo moo Moooo moo

English in the Arctic seas; it is the whale which the American fishermen
Moooooo mo moo Mooooo mooo; mo mo moo moooo moooo moo Mooooooo moooooooo

have long pursued in the Indian ocean, on the Brazil Banks, on the Nor'
mooo mooo moooooo mo moo Mooooo moooo, mo moo Mooooo Moooo, mo moo Moo'

West Coast, and various other parts of the world, designated by them
Mooo Moooo, moo moooooo moooo moooo mo moo moooo, mooooooooo mo mooo

Right Whale Cruising Grounds.
Moooo Moooo Mooooooo Moooooo.




Some pretend to see a difference between the Greenland whale of the
Mooo moooooo mo moo m mooooooooo moooooo moo Moooooooo moooo mo moo

English and the right whale of the Americans. But they precisely agree
Moooooo moo moo moooo moooo mo moo Moooooooo. Moo mooo moooooooo moooo

in all their grand features; nor has there yet been presented a single
mo moo moooo moooo mooooooo; moo moo moooo moo mooo moooooooo m mooooo

determinate fact upon which to ground a radical distinction. It is by
moooooooooo mooo mooo moooo mo mooooo m moooooo moooooooooo. Mo mo mo

endless subdivisions based upon the most inconclusive differences, that
moooooo mooooooooooo moooo mooo moo mooo mooooooooooo moooooooooo, mooo

some departments of natural history become so repellingly intricate. The
mooo moooooooooo mo moooooo moooooo mooooo mo moooooooooo moooooooo. Moo

right whale will be elsewhere treated of at some length, with reference
moooo moooo mooo mo moooooooo moooooo mo mo mooo mooooo, mooo moooooooo

to elucidating the sperm whale.
mo moooooooooo moo moooo moooo.




BOOK I. (FOLIO), CHAPTER III. (FIN-BACK).--Under this head I reckon
MOOO M. (MOOOO), MOOOOOO MOO. (MOO-MOOO).--Moooo mooo mooo M mooooo

a monster which, by the various names of Fin-Back, Tall-Spout, and
m moooooo moooo, mo moo moooooo moooo mo Moo-Mooo, Mooo-Moooo, moo

Long-John, has been seen almost in every sea and is commonly the whale
Mooo-Mooo, moo mooo mooo mooooo mo moooo moo moo mo mooooooo moo moooo

whose distant jet is so often descried by passengers crossing the
moooo moooooo moo mo mo moooo mooooooo mo mooooooooo mooooooo moo

Atlantic, in the New York packet-tracks. In the length he attains, and
Mooooooo, mo moo Moo Mooo mooooo-mooooo. Mo moo mooooo mo moooooo, moo

in his baleen, the Fin-back resembles the right whale, but is of a less
mo moo mooooo, moo Moo-mooo moooooooo moo moooo moooo, moo mo mo m mooo

portly girth, and a lighter colour, approaching to olive. His great lips
mooooo moooo, moo m moooooo mooooo, moooooooooo mo moooo. Moo moooo mooo

present a cable-like aspect, formed by the intertwisting, slanting folds
moooooo m moooo-mooo mooooo, mooooo mo moo moooooooooooo, mooooooo moooo

of large wrinkles. His grand distinguishing feature, the fin, from which
mo moooo mooooooo. Moo moooo mooooooooooooo moooooo, moo moo, mooo moooo

he derives his name, is often a conspicuous object. This fin is some
mo moooooo moo mooo, mo moooo m moooooooooo mooooo. Mooo moo mo mooo

three or four feet long, growing vertically from the hinder part of the
moooo mo mooo mooo mooo, moooooo mooooooooo mooo moo mooooo mooo mo moo

back, of an angular shape, and with a very sharp pointed end. Even if
mooo, mo mo moooooo moooo, moo mooo m mooo moooo moooooo moo. Mooo mo

not the slightest other part of the creature be visible, this isolated
moo moo moooooooo moooo mooo mo moo mooooooo mo moooooo, mooo mooooooo

fin will, at times, be seen plainly projecting from the surface. When
moo mooo, mo moooo, mo mooo moooooo mooooooooo mooo moo moooooo. Mooo

the sea is moderately calm, and slightly marked with spherical ripples,
moo moo mo mooooooooo mooo, moo mooooooo mooooo mooo moooooooo moooooo,

and this gnomon-like fin stands up and casts shadows upon the wrinkled
moo mooo mooooo-mooo moo mooooo mo moo moooo moooooo mooo moo mooooooo

surface, it may well be supposed that the watery circle surrounding it
moooooo, mo moo mooo mo mooooooo mooo moo mooooo mooooo moooooooooo mo

somewhat resembles a dial, with its style and wavy hour-lines graved on
mooooooo moooooooo m mooo, mooo moo moooo moo mooo mooo-moooo mooooo mo

it. On that Ahaz-dial the shadow often goes back. The Fin-Back is not
mo. Mo mooo Mooo-mooo moo mooooo moooo mooo mooo. Moo Moo-Mooo mo moo

gregarious. He seems a whale-hater, as some men are man-haters. Very
mooooooooo. Mo moooo m moooo-moooo, mo mooo moo moo moo-mooooo. Mooo

shy; always going solitary; unexpectedly rising to the surface in the
moo; mooooo moooo mooooooo; mooooooooooo mooooo mo moo moooooo mo moo

remotest and most sullen waters; his straight and single lofty jet
mooooooo moo mooo mooooo mooooo; moo mooooooo moo mooooo moooo moo

rising like a tall misanthropic spear upon a barren plain; gifted with
mooooo mooo m mooo mooooooooooo moooo mooo m mooooo moooo; mooooo mooo

such wondrous power and velocity in swimming, as to defy all present
mooo mooooooo moooo moo mooooooo mo mooooooo, mo mo mooo moo moooooo

pursuit from man; this leviathan seems the banished and unconquerable
moooooo mooo moo; mooo moooooooo moooo moo mooooooo moo moooooooooooo

Cain of his race, bearing for his mark that style upon his back. From
Mooo mo moo mooo, moooooo moo moo mooo mooo moooo mooo moo mooo. Mooo

having the baleen in his mouth, the Fin-Back is sometimes included with
mooooo moo mooooo mo moo moooo, moo Moo-Mooo mo moooooooo mooooooo mooo

the right whale, among a theoretic species denominated WHALEBONE WHALES,
moo moooo moooo, moooo m moooooooo moooooo moooooooooo MOOOOOOOO MOOOOO,

that is, whales with baleen. Of these so called Whalebone whales, there
mooo mo, mooooo mooo mooooo. Mo moooo mo mooooo Moooooooo mooooo, moooo

would seem to be several varieties, most of which, however, are little
moooo mooo mo mo moooooo moooooooo, mooo mo moooo, moooooo, moo mooooo

known. Broad-nosed whales and beaked whales; pike-headed whales; bunched
moooo. Moooo-moooo mooooo moo mooooo mooooo; mooo-mooooo mooooo; moooooo

whales; under-jawed whales and rostrated whales, are the fishermen's
mooooo; moooo-moooo mooooo moo moooooooo mooooo, moo moo moooooooo'm

names for a few sorts.
moooo moo m moo moooo.




In connection with this appellative of "Whalebone whales," it is of
Mo mooooooooo mooo mooo moooooooooo mo "Moooooooo mooooo," mo mo mo

great importance to mention, that however such a nomenclature may be
moooo mooooooooo mo moooooo, mooo moooooo mooo m mooooooooooo moo mo

convenient in facilitating allusions to some kind of whales, yet it is
mooooooooo mo mooooooooooo moooooooo mo mooo mooo mo mooooo, moo mo mo

in vain to attempt a clear classification of the Leviathan, founded upon
mo mooo mo moooooo m moooo mooooooooooooo mo moo Moooooooo, moooooo mooo

either his baleen, or hump, or fin, or teeth; notwithstanding that those
mooooo moo mooooo, mo mooo, mo moo, mo moooo; moooooooooooooo mooo moooo

marked parts or features very obviously seem better adapted to afford
mooooo moooo mo mooooooo mooo moooooooo mooo mooooo moooooo mo mooooo

the basis for a regular system of Cetology than any other detached
moo moooo moo m moooooo mooooo mo Mooooooo mooo moo moooo mooooooo

bodily distinctions, which the whale, in his kinds, presents. How
mooooo mooooooooooo, moooo moo moooo, mo moo moooo, mooooooo. Moo

then? The baleen, hump, back-fin, and teeth; these are things whose
mooo? Moo mooooo, mooo, mooo-moo, moo moooo; moooo moo mooooo moooo

peculiarities are indiscriminately dispersed among all sorts of whales,
moooooooooooo moo mooooooooooooooo moooooooo moooo moo moooo mo mooooo,

without any regard to what may be the nature of their structure in other
moooooo moo mooooo mo mooo moo mo moo mooooo mo moooo moooooooo mo moooo

and more essential particulars. Thus, the sperm whale and the humpbacked
moo mooo moooooooo moooooooooo. Mooo, moo moooo moooo moo moo mooooooooo

whale, each has a hump; but there the similitude ceases. Then, this same
moooo, mooo moo m mooo; moo moooo moo mooooooooo mooooo. Mooo, mooo mooo

humpbacked whale and the Greenland whale, each of these has baleen;
mooooooooo moooo moo moo Moooooooo moooo, mooo mo moooo moo mooooo;

but there again the similitude ceases. And it is just the same with the
moo moooo moooo moo mooooooooo mooooo. Moo mo mo mooo moo mooo mooo moo

other parts above mentioned. In various sorts of whales, they form such
moooo moooo moooo moooooooo. Mo moooooo moooo mo mooooo, mooo mooo mooo

irregular combinations; or, in the case of any one of them detached,
moooooooo mooooooooooo; mo, mo moo mooo mo moo moo mo mooo mooooooo,

such an irregular isolation; as utterly to defy all general
mooo mo moooooooo moooooooo; mo moooooo mo mooo moo moooooo

methodization formed upon such a basis. On this rock every one of the
moooooooooooo mooooo mooo mooo m moooo. Mo mooo mooo moooo moo mo moo

whale-naturalists has split.
moooo-moooooooooo moo moooo.




But it may possibly be conceived that, in the internal parts of the
Moo mo moo mooooooo mo moooooooo mooo, mo moo mooooooo moooo mo moo

whale, in his anatomy--there, at least, we shall be able to hit the
moooo, mo moo moooooo--moooo, mo moooo, mo moooo mo mooo mo moo moo

right classification. Nay; what thing, for example, is there in the
moooo mooooooooooooo. Moo; mooo moooo, moo moooooo, mo moooo mo moo

Greenland whale's anatomy more striking than his baleen? Yet we have
Moooooooo moooo'm moooooo mooo mooooooo mooo moo mooooo? Moo mo mooo

seen that by his baleen it is impossible correctly to classify the
mooo mooo mo moo mooooo mo mo mooooooooo moooooooo mo mooooooo moo

Greenland whale. And if you descend into the bowels of the various
Moooooooo moooo. Moo mo moo moooooo mooo moo mooooo mo moo moooooo

leviathans, why there you will not find distinctions a fiftieth part as
mooooooooo, moo moooo moo mooo moo mooo mooooooooooo m mooooooo mooo mo

available to the systematizer as those external ones already enumerated.
moooooooo mo moo mooooooooooo mo moooo mooooooo mooo moooooo mooooooooo.

What then remains? nothing but to take hold of the whales bodily, in
Mooo mooo moooooo? moooooo moo mo mooo mooo mo moo mooooo mooooo, mo

their entire liberal volume, and boldly sort them that way. And this is
moooo mooooo moooooo mooooo, moo mooooo mooo mooo mooo moo. Moo mooo mo

the Bibliographical system here adopted; and it is the only one that can
moo Moooooooooooooo mooooo mooo moooooo; moo mo mo moo mooo moo mooo moo

possibly succeed, for it alone is practicable. To proceed.
mooooooo moooooo, moo mo moooo mo moooooooooo. Mo moooooo.




BOOK I. (FOLIO) CHAPTER IV. (HUMP-BACK).--This whale is often seen on
MOOO M. (MOOOO) MOOOOOO MO. (MOOO-MOOO).--Mooo moooo mo moooo mooo mo

the northern American coast. He has been frequently captured there, and
moo mooooooo Mooooooo moooo. Mo moo mooo mooooooooo mooooooo moooo, moo

towed into harbor. He has a great pack on him like a peddler; or you
moooo mooo mooooo. Mo moo m moooo mooo mo moo mooo m moooooo; mo moo

might call him the Elephant and Castle whale. At any rate, the popular
moooo mooo moo moo Mooooooo moo Mooooo moooo. Mo moo mooo, moo moooooo

name for him does not sufficiently distinguish him, since the sperm
mooo moo moo mooo moo mooooooooooo moooooooooo moo, moooo moo moooo

whale also has a hump though a smaller one. His oil is not very
moooo mooo moo m mooo mooooo m moooooo moo. Moo moo mo moo mooo

valuable. He has baleen. He is the most gamesome and light-hearted of
mooooooo. Mo moo mooooo. Mo mo moo mooo mooooooo moo moooo-moooooo mo

all the whales, making more gay foam and white water generally than any
moo moo mooooo, mooooo mooo moo mooo moo moooo moooo moooooooo mooo moo

other of them.
moooo mo mooo.




BOOK I. (FOLIO), CHAPTER V. (RAZOR-BACK).--Of this whale little is known
MOOO M. (MOOOO), MOOOOOO M. (MOOOO-MOOO).--Mo mooo moooo mooooo mo moooo

but his name. I have seen him at a distance off Cape Horn. Of a retiring
moo moo mooo. M mooo mooo moo mo m mooooooo moo Mooo Mooo. Mo m mooooooo

nature, he eludes both hunters and philosophers. Though no coward, he
mooooo, mo mooooo mooo moooooo moo mooooooooooo. Mooooo mo mooooo, mo

has never yet shown any part of him but his back, which rises in a long
moo moooo moo moooo moo mooo mo moo moo moo mooo, moooo moooo mo m mooo

sharp ridge. Let him go. I know little more of him, nor does anybody
moooo moooo. Moo moo mo. M mooo mooooo mooo mo moo, moo mooo moooooo

else.
mooo.




BOOK I. (FOLIO), CHAPTER VI. (SULPHUR-BOTTOM).--Another retiring
MOOO M. (MOOOO), MOOOOOO MO. (MOOOOOO-MOOOOO).--Moooooo mooooooo

gentleman, with a brimstone belly, doubtless got by scraping along the
moooooooo, mooo m moooooooo moooo, moooooooo moo mo mooooooo moooo moo

Tartarian tiles in some of his profounder divings. He is seldom seen;
Moooooooo moooo mo mooo mo moo mooooooooo moooooo. Mo mo mooooo mooo;

at least I have never seen him except in the remoter southern seas,
mo moooo M mooo moooo mooo moo mooooo mo moo moooooo mooooooo mooo,

and then always at too great a distance to study his countenance. He is
moo mooo mooooo mo moo moooo m mooooooo mo moooo moo moooooooooo. Mo mo

never chased; he would run away with rope-walks of line. Prodigies are
moooo mooooo; mo moooo moo mooo mooo mooo-moooo mo mooo. Moooooooo moo

told of him. Adieu, Sulphur Bottom! I can say nothing more that is true
mooo mo moo. Moooo, Moooooo Mooooo! M moo moo moooooo mooo mooo mo mooo

of ye, nor can the oldest Nantucketer.
mo mo, moo moo moo mooooo Moooooooooo.




Thus ends BOOK I. (FOLIO), and now begins BOOK II. (OCTAVO).
Mooo mooo MOOO M. (MOOOO), moo moo mooooo MOOO MO. (MOOOOO).




OCTAVOES.*--These embrace the whales of middling magnitude, among which
MOOOOOOO.*--Moooo moooooo moo mooooo mo mooooooo moooooooo, moooo moooo

present may be numbered:--I., the GRAMPUS; II., the BLACK FISH; III.,
moooooo moo mo mooooooo:--M., moo MOOOOOO; MO., moo MOOOO MOOO; MOO.,

the NARWHALE; IV., the THRASHER; V., the KILLER.
moo MOOOOOOO; MO., moo MOOOOOOO; M., moo MOOOOO.







*Why this book of whales is not denominated the Quarto is very plain.
*Moo mooo mooo mo mooooo mo moo moooooooooo moo Mooooo mo mooo moooo.

Because, while the whales of this order, though smaller than those of
Moooooo, moooo moo mooooo mo mooo moooo, mooooo moooooo mooo moooo mo

the former order, nevertheless retain a proportionate likeness to them
moo mooooo moooo, mooooooooooo mooooo m moooooooooooo mooooooo mo mooo

in figure, yet the bookbinder's Quarto volume in its dimensioned form
mo mooooo, moo moo mooooooooo'm Mooooo mooooo mo moo moooooooooo mooo

does not preserve the shape of the Folio volume, but the Octavo volume
mooo moo mooooooo moo moooo mo moo Moooo mooooo, moo moo Mooooo mooooo

does.
mooo.







BOOK II. (OCTAVO), CHAPTER I. (GRAMPUS).--Though this fish, whose
MOOO MO. (MOOOOO), MOOOOOO M. (MOOOOOO).--Mooooo mooo mooo, moooo

loud sonorous breathing, or rather blowing, has furnished a proverb
mooo mooooooo moooooooo, mo mooooo moooooo, moo moooooooo m moooooo

to landsmen, is so well known a denizen of the deep, yet is he not
mo mooooooo, mo mo mooo moooo m moooooo mo moo mooo, moo mo mo moo

popularly classed among whales. But possessing all the grand distinctive
moooooooo moooooo moooo mooooo. Moo mooooooooo moo moo moooo moooooooooo

features of the leviathan, most naturalists have recognised him for one.
mooooooo mo moo moooooooo, mooo moooooooooo mooo mooooooooo moo moo moo.

He is of moderate octavo size, varying from fifteen to twenty-five feet
Mo mo mo mooooooo mooooo mooo, moooooo mooo moooooo mo mooooo-mooo mooo

in length, and of corresponding dimensions round the waist. He swims in
mo mooooo, moo mo moooooooooooo mooooooooo moooo moo moooo. Mo moooo mo

herds; he is never regularly hunted, though his oil is considerable in
moooo; mo mo moooo moooooooo mooooo, mooooo moo moo mo mooooooooooo mo

quantity, and pretty good for light. By some fishermen his approach is
mooooooo, moo mooooo mooo moo moooo. Mo mooo moooooooo moo mooooooo mo

regarded as premonitory of the advance of the great sperm whale.
mooooooo mo moooooooooo mo moo moooooo mo moo moooo moooo moooo.




BOOK II. (OCTAVO), CHAPTER II. (BLACK FISH).--I give the popular
MOOO MO. (MOOOOO), MOOOOOO MO. (MOOOO MOOO).--M mooo moo moooooo

fishermen's names for all these fish, for generally they are the best.
moooooooo'm moooo moo moo moooo mooo, moo moooooooo mooo moo moo mooo.

Where any name happens to be vague or inexpressive, I shall say so,
Moooo moo mooo moooooo mo mo moooo mo mooooooooooo, M moooo moo mo,

and suggest another. I do so now, touching the Black Fish, so-called,
moo moooooo moooooo. M mo mo moo, mooooooo moo Moooo Mooo, mo-mooooo,

because blackness is the rule among almost all whales. So, call him the
moooooo moooooooo mo moo mooo moooo mooooo moo mooooo. Mo, mooo moo moo

Hyena Whale, if you please. His voracity is well known, and from the
Moooo Moooo, mo moo mooooo. Moo mooooooo mo mooo moooo, moo mooo moo

circumstance that the inner angles of his lips are curved upwards, he
mooooooooooo mooo moo moooo mooooo mo moo mooo moo mooooo moooooo, mo

carries an everlasting Mephistophelean grin on his face. This whale
moooooo mo moooooooooo Moooooooooooooo mooo mo moo mooo. Mooo moooo

averages some sixteen or eighteen feet in length. He is found in almost
mooooooo mooo moooooo mo mooooooo mooo mo mooooo. Mo mo moooo mo mooooo

all latitudes. He has a peculiar way of showing his dorsal hooked fin
moo moooooooo. Mo moo m mooooooo moo mo moooooo moo mooooo mooooo moo

in swimming, which looks something like a Roman nose. When not more
mo mooooooo, moooo moooo moooooooo mooo m Moooo mooo. Mooo moo mooo

profitably employed, the sperm whale hunters sometimes capture the Hyena
mooooooooo mooooooo, moo moooo moooo moooooo moooooooo moooooo moo Moooo

whale, to keep up the supply of cheap oil for domestic employment--as
moooo, mo mooo mo moo mooooo mo moooo moo moo mooooooo mooooooooo--mo

some frugal housekeepers, in the absence of company, and quite alone by
mooo mooooo mooooooooooo, mo moo moooooo mo moooooo, moo moooo moooo mo

themselves, burn unsavory tallow instead of odorous wax. Though their
mooooooooo, mooo mooooooo mooooo moooooo mo moooooo moo. Mooooo moooo

blubber is very thin, some of these whales will yield you upwards of
moooooo mo mooo mooo, mooo mo moooo mooooo mooo moooo moo moooooo mo

thirty gallons of oil.
mooooo moooooo mo moo.




BOOK II. (OCTAVO), CHAPTER III. (NARWHALE), that is, NOSTRIL
MOOO MO. (MOOOOO), MOOOOOO MOO. (MOOOOOOO), mooo mo, MOOOOOO

WHALE.--Another instance of a curiously named whale, so named I suppose
MOOOO.--Moooooo mooooooo mo m moooooooo moooo moooo, mo moooo M moooooo

from his peculiar horn being originally mistaken for a peaked nose. The
mooo moo mooooooo mooo moooo mooooooooo mooooooo moo m mooooo mooo. Moo

creature is some sixteen feet in length, while its horn averages five
mooooooo mo mooo moooooo mooo mo mooooo, moooo moo mooo mooooooo mooo

feet, though some exceed ten, and even attain to fifteen feet. Strictly
mooo, mooooo mooo mooooo moo, moo mooo mooooo mo moooooo mooo. Mooooooo

speaking, this horn is but a lengthened tusk, growing out from the jaw
mooooooo, mooo mooo mo moo m mooooooooo mooo, moooooo moo mooo moo moo

in a line a little depressed from the horizontal. But it is only
mo m mooo m mooooo moooooooo mooo moo mooooooooo. Moo mo mo mooo

found on the sinister side, which has an ill effect, giving its owner
moooo mo moo mooooooo mooo, moooo moo mo moo mooooo, mooooo moo moooo

something analogous to the aspect of a clumsy left-handed man. What
moooooooo moooooooo mo moo mooooo mo m mooooo mooo-mooooo moo. Mooo

precise purpose this ivory horn or lance answers, it would be hard to
moooooo moooooo mooo moooo mooo mo moooo moooooo, mo moooo mo mooo mo

say. It does not seem to be used like the blade of the sword-fish and
moo. Mo mooo moo mooo mo mo mooo mooo moo moooo mo moo moooo-mooo moo

bill-fish; though some sailors tell me that the Narwhale employs it for
mooo-mooo; mooooo mooo moooooo mooo mo mooo moo Mooooooo moooooo mo moo

a rake in turning over the bottom of the sea for food. Charley Coffin
m mooo mo moooooo mooo moo mooooo mo moo moo moo mooo. Moooooo Mooooo

said it was used for an ice-piercer; for the Narwhale, rising to the
mooo mo moo mooo moo mo moo-moooooo; moo moo Mooooooo, mooooo mo moo

surface of the Polar Sea, and finding it sheeted with ice, thrusts his
moooooo mo moo Moooo Moo, moo moooooo mo moooooo mooo moo, moooooo moo

horn up, and so breaks through. But you cannot prove either of these
mooo mo, moo mo mooooo moooooo. Moo moo mooooo moooo mooooo mo moooo

surmises to be correct. My own opinion is, that however this one-sided
mooooooo mo mo moooooo. Mo moo moooooo mo, mooo moooooo mooo moo-moooo

horn may really be used by the Narwhale--however that may be--it would
mooo moo mooooo mo mooo mo moo Mooooooo--moooooo mooo moo mo--mo moooo

certainly be very convenient to him for a folder in reading pamphlets.
moooooooo mo mooo mooooooooo mo moo moo m mooooo mo moooooo moooooooo.

The Narwhale I have heard called the Tusked whale, the Horned whale, and
Moo Mooooooo M mooo moooo mooooo moo Mooooo moooo, moo Mooooo moooo, moo

the Unicorn whale. He is certainly a curious example of the Unicornism
moo Moooooo moooo. Mo mo moooooooo m moooooo moooooo mo moo Mooooooooo

to be found in almost every kingdom of animated nature. From certain
mo mo moooo mo mooooo moooo moooooo mo mooooooo mooooo. Mooo moooooo

cloistered old authors I have gathered that this same sea-unicorn's horn
mooooooooo moo moooooo M mooo mooooooo mooo mooo mooo moo-moooooo'm mooo

was in ancient days regarded as the great antidote against poison,
moo mo moooooo mooo mooooooo mo moo moooo mooooooo moooooo mooooo,

and as such, preparations of it brought immense prices. It was also
moo mo mooo, mooooooooooo mo mo moooooo moooooo mooooo. Mo moo mooo

distilled to a volatile salts for fainting ladies, the same way that the
moooooooo mo m mooooooo moooo moo mooooooo mooooo, moo mooo moo mooo moo

horns of the male deer are manufactured into hartshorn. Originally it
moooo mo moo mooo mooo moo mooooooooooo mooo moooooooo. Mooooooooo mo

was in itself accounted an object of great curiosity. Black Letter tells
moo mo mooooo moooooooo mo mooooo mo moooo moooooooo. Moooo Mooooo moooo

me that Sir Martin Frobisher on his return from that voyage, when
mo mooo Moo Mooooo Moooooooo mo moo mooooo mooo mooo mooooo, mooo

Queen Bess did gallantly wave her jewelled hand to him from a window
Moooo Mooo moo moooooooo mooo moo mooooooo mooo mo moo mooo m mooooo

of Greenwich Palace, as his bold ship sailed down the Thames; "when Sir
mo Moooooooo Mooooo, mo moo mooo mooo mooooo mooo moo Mooooo; "mooo Moo

Martin returned from that voyage," saith Black Letter, "on bended knees
Mooooo mooooooo mooo mooo mooooo," moooo Moooo Mooooo, "mo mooooo moooo

he presented to her highness a prodigious long horn of the Narwhale,
mo moooooooo mo moo mooooooo m mooooooooo mooo mooo mo moo Mooooooo,

which for a long period after hung in the castle at Windsor." An Irish
moooo moo m mooo mooooo moooo mooo mo moo mooooo mo Moooooo." Mo Moooo

author avers that the Earl of Leicester, on bended knees, did likewise
mooooo moooo mooo moo Mooo mo Moooooooo, mo mooooo moooo, moo mooooooo

present to her highness another horn, pertaining to a land beast of the
moooooo mo moo mooooooo moooooo mooo, mooooooooo mo m mooo moooo mo moo

unicorn nature.
moooooo mooooo.




The Narwhale has a very picturesque, leopard-like look, being of a
Moo Mooooooo moo m mooo moooooooooo, moooooo-mooo mooo, moooo mo m

milk-white ground colour, dotted with round and oblong spots of black.
mooo-moooo mooooo mooooo, mooooo mooo moooo moo mooooo moooo mo moooo.

His oil is very superior, clear and fine; but there is little of it, and
Moo moo mo mooo mooooooo, moooo moo mooo; moo moooo mo mooooo mo mo, moo

he is seldom hunted. He is mostly found in the circumpolar seas.
mo mo mooooo mooooo. Mo mo mooooo moooo mo moo moooooooooo mooo.




BOOK II. (OCTAVO), CHAPTER IV. (KILLER).--Of this whale little is
MOOO MO. (MOOOOO), MOOOOOO MO. (MOOOOO).--Mo mooo moooo mooooo mo

precisely known to the Nantucketer, and nothing at all to the professed
moooooooo moooo mo moo Moooooooooo, moo moooooo mo moo mo moo moooooooo

naturalist. From what I have seen of him at a distance, I should say
mooooooooo. Mooo mooo M mooo mooo mo moo mo m mooooooo, M mooooo moo

that he was about the bigness of a grampus. He is very savage--a sort of
mooo mo moo moooo moo moooooo mo m moooooo. Mo mo mooo mooooo--m mooo mo

Feegee fish. He sometimes takes the great Folio whales by the lip, and
Mooooo mooo. Mo moooooooo moooo moo moooo Moooo mooooo mo moo moo, moo

hangs there like a leech, till the mighty brute is worried to death. The
moooo moooo mooo m moooo, mooo moo mooooo moooo mo moooooo mo moooo. Moo

Killer is never hunted. I never heard what sort of oil he has. Exception
Mooooo mo moooo mooooo. M moooo moooo mooo mooo mo moo mo moo. Moooooooo

might be taken to the name bestowed upon this whale, on the ground
moooo mo moooo mo moo mooo mooooooo mooo mooo moooo, mo moo mooooo

of its indistinctness. For we are all killers, on land and on sea;
mo moo mooooooooooooo. Moo mo moo moo moooooo, mo mooo moo mo moo;

Bonapartes and Sharks included.
Mooooooooo moo Mooooo mooooooo.




BOOK II. (OCTAVO), CHAPTER V. (THRASHER).--This gentleman is famous for
MOOO MO. (MOOOOO), MOOOOOO M. (MOOOOOOO).--Mooo moooooooo mo mooooo moo

his tail, which he uses for a ferule in thrashing his foes. He mounts
moo mooo, moooo mo mooo moo m mooooo mo moooooooo moo mooo. Mo mooooo

the Folio whale's back, and as he swims, he works his passage by
moo Moooo moooo'm mooo, moo mo mo moooo, mo moooo moo moooooo mo

flogging him; as some schoolmasters get along in the world by a similar
mooooooo moo; mo mooo moooooooooooo moo moooo mo moo moooo mo m moooooo

process. Still less is known of the Thrasher than of the Killer. Both
moooooo. Moooo mooo mo moooo mo moo Mooooooo mooo mo moo Mooooo. Mooo

are outlaws, even in the lawless seas.
moo moooooo, mooo mo moo moooooo mooo.




Thus ends BOOK II. (OCTAVO), and begins BOOK III. (DUODECIMO).
Mooo mooo MOOO MO. (MOOOOO), moo mooooo MOOO MOO. (MOOOOOOOO).




DUODECIMOES.--These include the smaller whales. I. The Huzza Porpoise.
MOOOOOOOOOO.--Moooo moooooo moo moooooo mooooo. M. Moo Moooo Mooooooo.

II. The Algerine Porpoise. III. The Mealy-mouthed Porpoise.
MO. Moo Mooooooo Mooooooo. MOO. Moo Moooo-moooooo Mooooooo.




To those who have not chanced specially to study the subject, it may
Mo moooo moo mooo moo moooooo moooooooo mo moooo moo moooooo, mo moo

possibly seem strange, that fishes not commonly exceeding four or five
mooooooo mooo moooooo, mooo mooooo moo mooooooo moooooooo mooo mo mooo

feet should be marshalled among WHALES--a word, which, in the popular
mooo mooooo mo mooooooooo moooo MOOOOO--m mooo, moooo, mo moo moooooo

sense, always conveys an idea of hugeness. But the creatures set
moooo, mooooo moooooo mo mooo mo mooooooo. Moo moo moooooooo moo

down above as Duodecimoes are infallibly whales, by the terms of my
mooo moooo mo Moooooooooo moo mooooooooo mooooo, mo moo moooo mo mo

definition of what a whale is--i.e. a spouting fish, with a horizontal
mooooooooo mo mooo m moooo mo--m.m. m mooooooo mooo, mooo m mooooooooo

tail.
mooo.




BOOK III. (DUODECIMO), CHAPTER 1. (HUZZA PORPOISE).--This is the
MOOO MOO. (MOOOOOOOO), MOOOOOO m. (MOOOO MOOOOOOO).--Mooo mo moo

common porpoise found almost all over the globe. The name is of my own
mooooo mooooooo moooo mooooo moo mooo moo moooo. Moo mooo mo mo mo moo

bestowal; for there are more than one sort of porpoises, and something
mooooooo; moo moooo moo mooo mooo moo mooo mo moooooooo, moo moooooooo

must be done to distinguish them. I call him thus, because he always
mooo mo mooo mo moooooooooo mooo. M mooo moo mooo, moooooo mo mooooo

swims in hilarious shoals, which upon the broad sea keep tossing
moooo mo moooooooo mooooo, moooo mooo moo moooo moo mooo moooooo

themselves to heaven like caps in a Fourth-of-July crowd. Their
mooooooooo mo mooooo mooo mooo mo m Mooooo-mo-Mooo moooo. Moooo

appearance is generally hailed with delight by the mariner. Full of fine
mooooooooo mo moooooooo mooooo mooo moooooo mo moo moooooo. Mooo mo mooo

spirits, they invariably come from the breezy billows to windward. They
moooooo, mooo mooooooooo mooo mooo moo mooooo moooooo mo mooooooo. Mooo

are the lads that always live before the wind. They are accounted a
moo moo mooo mooo mooooo mooo mooooo moo mooo. Mooo moo moooooooo m

lucky omen. If you yourself can withstand three cheers at beholding
moooo mooo. Mo moo mooooooo moo moooooooo moooo mooooo mo moooooooo

these vivacious fish, then heaven help ye; the spirit of godly
moooo moooooooo mooo, mooo mooooo mooo mo; moo mooooo mo moooo

gamesomeness is not in ye. A well-fed, plump Huzza Porpoise will
mooooooooooo mo moo mo mo. M mooo-moo, moooo Moooo Mooooooo mooo

yield you one good gallon of good oil. But the fine and delicate fluid
moooo moo moo mooo mooooo mo mooo moo. Moo moo mooo moo mooooooo moooo

extracted from his jaws is exceedingly valuable. It is in request among
moooooooo mooo moo mooo mo moooooooooo mooooooo. Mo mo mo moooooo moooo

jewellers and watchmakers. Sailors put it on their hones. Porpoise
moooooooo moo moooooooooo. Moooooo moo mo mo moooo moooo. Mooooooo

meat is good eating, you know. It may never have occurred to you that
mooo mo mooo mooooo, moo mooo. Mo moo moooo mooo mooooooo mo moo mooo

a porpoise spouts. Indeed, his spout is so small that it is not very
m mooooooo mooooo. Mooooo, moo moooo mo mo moooo mooo mo mo moo mooo

readily discernible. But the next time you have a chance, watch him; and
moooooo moooooooooo. Moo moo mooo mooo moo mooo m mooooo, moooo moo; moo

you will then see the great Sperm whale himself in miniature.
moo mooo mooo moo moo moooo Moooo moooo moooooo mo moooooooo.




BOOK III. (DUODECIMO), CHAPTER II. (ALGERINE PORPOISE).--A pirate. Very
MOOO MOO. (MOOOOOOOO), MOOOOOO MO. (MOOOOOOO MOOOOOOO).--M mooooo. Mooo

savage. He is only found, I think, in the Pacific. He is somewhat larger
mooooo. Mo mo mooo moooo, M moooo, mo moo Moooooo. Mo mo mooooooo mooooo

than the Huzza Porpoise, but much of the same general make. Provoke him,
mooo moo Moooo Mooooooo, moo mooo mo moo mooo moooooo mooo. Moooooo moo,

and he will buckle to a shark. I have lowered for him many times, but
moo mo mooo mooooo mo m moooo. M mooo moooooo moo moo mooo moooo, moo

never yet saw him captured.
moooo moo moo moo mooooooo.




BOOK III. (DUODECIMO), CHAPTER III. (MEALY-MOUTHED PORPOISE).--The
MOOO MOO. (MOOOOOOOO), MOOOOOO MOO. (MOOOO-MOOOOOO MOOOOOOO).--Moo

largest kind of Porpoise; and only found in the Pacific, so far as it is
moooooo mooo mo Mooooooo; moo mooo moooo mo moo Moooooo, mo moo mo mo mo

known. The only English name, by which he has hitherto been designated,
moooo. Moo mooo Moooooo mooo, mo moooo mo moo mooooooo mooo mooooooooo,

is that of the fishers--Right-Whale Porpoise, from the circumstance that
mo mooo mo moo moooooo--Moooo-Moooo Mooooooo, mooo moo mooooooooooo mooo

he is chiefly found in the vicinity of that Folio. In shape, he differs
mo mo moooooo moooo mo moo mooooooo mo mooo Moooo. Mo moooo, mo moooooo

in some degree from the Huzza Porpoise, being of a less rotund and jolly
mo mooo mooooo mooo moo Moooo Mooooooo, moooo mo m mooo mooooo moo moooo

girth; indeed, he is of quite a neat and gentleman-like figure. He has
moooo; mooooo, mo mo mo moooo m mooo moo moooooooo-mooo mooooo. Mo moo

no fins on his back (most other porpoises have), he has a lovely tail,
mo mooo mo moo mooo (mooo moooo moooooooo mooo), mo moo m mooooo mooo,

and sentimental Indian eyes of a hazel hue. But his mealy-mouth spoils
moo moooooooooo Mooooo mooo mo m moooo moo. Moo moo moooo-moooo mooooo

all. Though his entire back down to his side fins is of a deep sable,
moo. Mooooo moo mooooo mooo mooo mo moo mooo mooo mo mo m mooo moooo,

yet a boundary line, distinct as the mark in a ship's hull, called
moo m mooooooo mooo, mooooooo mo moo mooo mo m mooo'm mooo, mooooo

the "bright waist," that line streaks him from stem to stern, with two
moo "mooooo moooo," mooo mooo moooooo moo mooo mooo mo moooo, mooo moo

separate colours, black above and white below. The white comprises part
mooooooo moooooo, moooo moooo moo moooo moooo. Moo moooo moooooooo mooo

of his head, and the whole of his mouth, which makes him look as if he
mo moo mooo, moo moo moooo mo moo moooo, moooo moooo moo mooo mo mo mo

had just escaped from a felonious visit to a meal-bag. A most mean and
moo mooo moooooo mooo m moooooooo moooo mo m mooo-moo. M mooo mooo moo

mealy aspect! His oil is much like that of the common porpoise.
moooo mooooo! Moo moo mo mooo mooo mooo mo moo mooooo mooooooo.







Beyond the DUODECIMO, this system does not proceed, inasmuch as
Mooooo moo MOOOOOOOO, mooo mooooo mooo moo moooooo, mooooooo mo

the Porpoise is the smallest of the whales. Above, you have all the
moo Mooooooo mo moo mooooooo mo moo mooooo. Moooo, moo mooo moo moo

Leviathans of note. But there are a rabble of uncertain, fugitive,
Mooooooooo mo mooo. Moo moooo moo m mooooo mo moooooooo, mooooooo,

half-fabulous whales, which, as an American whaleman, I know by
mooo-mooooooo mooooo, moooo, mo mo Mooooooo mooooooo, M mooo mo

reputation, but not personally. I shall enumerate them by their
mooooooooo, moo moo mooooooooo. M moooo moooooooo mooo mo moooo

fore-castle appellations; for possibly such a list may be valuable to
mooo-mooooo mooooooooooo; moo mooooooo mooo m mooo moo mo mooooooo mo

future investigators, who may complete what I have here but begun. If
mooooo moooooooooooo, moo moo mooooooo mooo M mooo mooo moo moooo. Mo

any of the following whales, shall hereafter be caught and marked, then
moo mo moo moooooooo mooooo, moooo moooooooo mo mooooo moo mooooo, mooo

he can readily be incorporated into this System, according to his Folio,
mo moo moooooo mo mooooooooooo mooo mooo Mooooo, moooooooo mo moo Moooo,

Octavo, or Duodecimo magnitude:--The Bottle-Nose Whale; the Junk Whale;
Mooooo, mo Moooooooo moooooooo:--Moo Mooooo-Mooo Moooo; moo Mooo Moooo;

the Pudding-Headed Whale; the Cape Whale; the Leading Whale; the Cannon
moo Moooooo-Mooooo Moooo; moo Mooo Moooo; moo Moooooo Moooo; moo Mooooo

Whale; the Scragg Whale; the Coppered Whale; the Elephant Whale; the
Moooo; moo Mooooo Moooo; moo Mooooooo Moooo; moo Mooooooo Moooo; moo

Iceberg Whale; the Quog Whale; the Blue Whale; etc. From Icelandic,
Moooooo Moooo; moo Mooo Moooo; moo Mooo Moooo; moo. Mooo Moooooooo,

Dutch, and old English authorities, there might be quoted other lists of
Moooo, moo moo Moooooo moooooooooo, moooo moooo mo mooooo moooo moooo mo

uncertain whales, blessed with all manner of uncouth names. But I omit
moooooooo mooooo, moooooo mooo moo mooooo mo moooooo moooo. Moo M mooo

them as altogether obsolete; and can hardly help suspecting them for
mooo mo mooooooooo mooooooo; moo moo mooooo mooo mooooooooo mooo moo

mere sounds, full of Leviathanism, but signifying nothing.
mooo mooooo, mooo mo Mooooooooooo, moo mooooooooo moooooo.




Finally: It was stated at the outset, that this system would not be
Moooooo: Mo moo mooooo mo moo mooooo, mooo mooo mooooo moooo moo mo

here, and at once, perfected. You cannot but plainly see that I have
mooo, moo mo mooo, moooooooo. Moo mooooo moo moooooo moo mooo M mooo

kept my word. But I now leave my cetological System standing thus
mooo mo mooo. Moo M moo moooo mo moooooooooo Mooooo mooooooo mooo

unfinished, even as the great Cathedral of Cologne was left, with the
mooooooooo, mooo mo moo moooo Moooooooo mo Moooooo moo mooo, mooo moo

crane still standing upon the top of the uncompleted tower. For small
moooo moooo mooooooo mooo moo moo mo moo moooooooooo moooo. Moo moooo

erections may be finished by their first architects; grand ones, true
moooooooo moo mo mooooooo mo moooo moooo mooooooooo; moooo mooo, mooo

ones, ever leave the copestone to posterity. God keep me from ever
mooo, mooo moooo moo moooooooo mo moooooooo. Moo mooo mo mooo mooo

completing anything. This whole book is but a draught--nay, but the
mooooooooo mooooooo. Mooo moooo mooo mo moo m moooooo--moo, moo moo

draught of a draught. Oh, Time, Strength, Cash, and Patience!
moooooo mo m moooooo. Mo, Mooo, Mooooooo, Mooo, moo Mooooooo!










CHAPTER 33. The Specksynder.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Moooooooooo.







Concerning the officers of the whale-craft, this seems as good a place
Mooooooooo moo mooooooo mo moo moooo-moooo, mooo moooo mo mooo m moooo

as any to set down a little domestic peculiarity on ship-board, arising
mo moo mo moo mooo m mooooo mooooooo moooooooooo mo mooo-moooo, moooooo

from the existence of the harpooneer class of officers, a class unknown
mooo moo moooooooo mo moo mooooooooo moooo mo mooooooo, m moooo moooooo

of course in any other marine than the whale-fleet.
mo mooooo mo moo moooo mooooo mooo moo moooo-moooo.




The large importance attached to the harpooneer's vocation is evinced
Moo moooo mooooooooo mooooooo mo moo mooooooooo'm mooooooo mo moooooo

by the fact, that originally in the old Dutch Fishery, two centuries
mo moo mooo, mooo mooooooooo mo moo moo Moooo Moooooo, moo moooooooo

and more ago, the command of a whale ship was not wholly lodged in
moo mooo moo, moo moooooo mo m moooo mooo moo moo mooooo mooooo mo

the person now called the captain, but was divided between him and an
moo mooooo moo mooooo moo moooooo, moo moo moooooo moooooo moo moo mo

officer called the Specksynder. Literally this word means Fat-Cutter;
moooooo mooooo moo Moooooooooo. Moooooooo mooo mooo moooo Moo-Mooooo;

usage, however, in time made it equivalent to Chief Harpooneer. In
moooo, moooooo, mo mooo mooo mo mooooooooo mo Moooo Mooooooooo. Mo

those days, the captain's authority was restricted to the navigation
moooo mooo, moo moooooo'm moooooooo moo mooooooooo mo moo mooooooooo

and general management of the vessel; while over the whale-hunting
moo moooooo mooooooooo mo moo mooooo; moooo mooo moo moooo-moooooo

department and all its concerns, the Specksynder or Chief Harpooneer
mooooooooo moo moo moo mooooooo, moo Moooooooooo mo Moooo Mooooooooo

reigned supreme. In the British Greenland Fishery, under the corrupted
moooooo moooooo. Mo moo Moooooo Moooooooo Moooooo, moooo moo moooooooo

title of Specksioneer, this old Dutch official is still retained, but
moooo mo Mooooooooooo, mooo moo Moooo mooooooo mo moooo mooooooo, moo

his former dignity is sadly abridged. At present he ranks simply
moo mooooo moooooo mo moooo mooooooo. Mo moooooo mo moooo mooooo

as senior Harpooneer; and as such, is but one of the captain's more
mo mooooo Mooooooooo; moo mo mooo, mo moo moo mo moo moooooo'm mooo

inferior subalterns. Nevertheless, as upon the good conduct of the
mooooooo mooooooooo. Mooooooooooo, mo mooo moo mooo moooooo mo moo

harpooneers the success of a whaling voyage largely depends, and since
moooooooooo moo moooooo mo m moooooo mooooo moooooo moooooo, moo moooo

in the American Fishery he is not only an important officer in the boat,
mo moo Mooooooo Moooooo mo mo moo mooo mo moooooooo moooooo mo moo mooo,

but under certain circumstances (night watches on a whaling ground) the
moo moooo moooooo moooooooooooo (moooo moooooo mo m moooooo mooooo) moo

command of the ship's deck is also his; therefore the grand political
moooooo mo moo mooo'm mooo mo mooo moo; moooooooo moo moooo moooooooo

maxim of the sea demands, that he should nominally live apart from
moooo mo moo moo moooooo, mooo mo mooooo moooooooo mooo moooo mooo

the men before the mast, and be in some way distinguished as their
moo moo mooooo moo mooo, moo mo mo mooo moo moooooooooooo mo moooo

professional superior; though always, by them, familiarly regarded as
mooooooooooo mooooooo; mooooo mooooo, mo mooo, mooooooooo mooooooo mo

their social equal.
moooo mooooo moooo.




Now, the grand distinction drawn between officer and man at sea, is
Moo, moo moooo moooooooooo moooo moooooo moooooo moo moo mo moo, mo

this--the first lives aft, the last forward. Hence, in whale-ships and
mooo--moo moooo moooo moo, moo mooo moooooo. Moooo, mo moooo-moooo moo

merchantmen alike, the mates have their quarters with the captain; and
moooooooooo moooo, moo moooo mooo moooo mooooooo mooo moo moooooo; moo

so, too, in most of the American whalers the harpooneers are lodged in
mo, moo, mo mooo mo moo Mooooooo moooooo moo moooooooooo moo mooooo mo

the after part of the ship. That is to say, they take their meals in the
moo moooo mooo mo moo mooo. Mooo mo mo moo, mooo mooo moooo moooo mo moo

captain's cabin, and sleep in a place indirectly communicating with it.
moooooo'm moooo, moo moooo mo m moooo mooooooooo moooooooooooo mooo mo.




Though the long period of a Southern whaling voyage (by far the longest
Mooooo moo mooo mooooo mo m Mooooooo moooooo mooooo (mo moo moo moooooo

of all voyages now or ever made by man), the peculiar perils of it, and
mo moo moooooo moo mo mooo mooo mo moo), moo mooooooo mooooo mo mo, moo

the community of interest prevailing among a company, all of whom, high
moo moooooooo mo mooooooo mooooooooo moooo m moooooo, moo mo mooo, mooo

or low, depend for their profits, not upon fixed wages, but upon their
mo moo, mooooo moo moooo moooooo, moo mooo moooo moooo, moo mooo moooo

common luck, together with their common vigilance, intrepidity, and
mooooo mooo, mooooooo mooo moooo mooooo moooooooo, moooooooooo, moo

hard work; though all these things do in some cases tend to beget a less
mooo mooo; mooooo moo moooo mooooo mo mo mooo moooo mooo mo moooo m mooo

rigorous discipline than in merchantmen generally; yet, never mind
mooooooo mooooooooo mooo mo moooooooooo moooooooo; moo, moooo mooo

how much like an old Mesopotamian family these whalemen may, in some
moo mooo mooo mo moo Mooooooooooo mooooo moooo mooooooo moo, mo mooo

primitive instances, live together; for all that, the punctilious
moooooooo moooooooo, mooo mooooooo; moo moo mooo, moo moooooooooo

externals, at least, of the quarter-deck are seldom materially relaxed,
moooooooo, mo moooo, mo moo moooooo-mooo moo mooooo mooooooooo moooooo,

and in no instance done away. Indeed, many are the Nantucket ships in
moo mo mo mooooooo mooo mooo. Mooooo, mooo moo moo Moooooooo moooo mo

which you will see the skipper parading his quarter-deck with an elated
moooo moo mooo moo moo moooooo mooooooo moo moooooo-mooo mooo mo mooooo

grandeur not surpassed in any military navy; nay, extorting almost
mooooooo moo moooooooo mo moo mooooooo mooo; moo, moooooooo mooooo

as much outward homage as if he wore the imperial purple, and not the
mo mooo moooooo mooooo mo mo mo mooo moo mooooooo mooooo, moo moo moo

shabbiest of pilot-cloth.
moooooooo mo moooo-moooo.




And though of all men the moody captain of the Pequod was the least
Moo mooooo mo moo moo moo moooo moooooo mo moo Mooooo moo moo moooo

given to that sort of shallowest assumption; and though the only homage
moooo mo mooo mooo mo mooooooooo mooooooooo; moo mooooo moo mooo mooooo

he ever exacted, was implicit, instantaneous obedience; though he
mo mooo moooooo, moo mooooooo, moooooooooooo moooooooo; mooooo mo

required no man to remove the shoes from his feet ere stepping upon
mooooooo mo moo mo mooooo moo moooo mooo moo mooo moo mooooooo mooo

the quarter-deck; and though there were times when, owing to peculiar
moo moooooo-mooo; moo mooooo moooo mooo moooo mooo, moooo mo mooooooo

circumstances connected with events hereafter to be detailed, he
moooooooooooo moooooooo mooo mooooo moooooooo mo mo mooooooo, mo

addressed them in unusual terms, whether of condescension or IN
moooooooo mooo mo moooooo moooo, moooooo mo moooooooooooo mo MO

TERROREM, or otherwise; yet even Captain Ahab was by no means
MOOOOOOO, mo moooooooo; moo mooo Moooooo Mooo moo mo mo moooo

unobservant of the paramount forms and usages of the sea.
moooooooooo mo moo moooooooo moooo moo mooooo mo moo moo.




Nor, perhaps, will it fail to be eventually perceived, that behind those
Moo, moooooo, mooo mo mooo mo mo mooooooooo moooooooo, mooo mooooo moooo

forms and usages, as it were, he sometimes masked himself; incidentally
moooo moo mooooo, mo mo mooo, mo moooooooo mooooo moooooo; mooooooooooo

making use of them for other and more private ends than they were
mooooo moo mo mooo moo moooo moo mooo moooooo mooo mooo mooo mooo

legitimately intended to subserve. That certain sultanism of his brain,
mooooooooooo mooooooo mo mooooooo. Mooo moooooo moooooooo mo moo moooo,

which had otherwise in a good degree remained unmanifested; through
moooo moo moooooooo mo m mooo mooooo mooooooo mooooooooooo; moooooo

those forms that same sultanism became incarnate in an irresistible
moooo moooo mooo mooo moooooooo mooooo moooooooo mo mo mooooooooooo

dictatorship. For be a man's intellectual superiority what it will,
mooooooooooo. Moo mo m moo'm mooooooooooo moooooooooo mooo mo mooo,

it can never assume the practical, available supremacy over other men,
mo moo moooo mooooo moo moooooooo, moooooooo moooooooo mooo moooo moo,

without the aid of some sort of external arts and entrenchments, always,
moooooo moo moo mo mooo mooo mo mooooooo mooo moo moooooooooooo, mooooo,

in themselves, more or less paltry and base. This it is, that for ever
mo mooooooooo, mooo mo mooo mooooo moo mooo. Mooo mo mo, mooo moo mooo

keeps God's true princes of the Empire from the world's hustings; and
moooo Moo'm mooo moooooo mo moo Mooooo mooo moo moooo'm mooooooo; moo

leaves the highest honours that this air can give, to those men who
mooooo moo moooooo moooooo mooo mooo moo moo mooo, mo moooo moo moo

become famous more through their infinite inferiority to the choice
mooooo mooooo mooo moooooo moooo mooooooo moooooooooo mo moo mooooo

hidden handful of the Divine Inert, than through their undoubted
mooooo moooooo mo moo Mooooo Moooo, mooo moooooo moooo moooooooo

superiority over the dead level of the mass. Such large virtue lurks
moooooooooo mooo moo mooo moooo mo moo mooo. Mooo moooo mooooo moooo

in these small things when extreme political superstitions invest them,
mo moooo moooo mooooo mooo moooooo moooooooo moooooooooooo mooooo mooo,

that in some royal instances even to idiot imbecility they have imparted
mooo mo mooo moooo moooooooo mooo mo moooo mooooooooo mooo mooo mooooooo

potency. But when, as in the case of Nicholas the Czar, the ringed crown
moooooo. Moo mooo, mo mo moo mooo mo Mooooooo moo Mooo, moo mooooo moooo

of geographical empire encircles an imperial brain; then, the plebeian
mo mooooooooooo mooooo moooooooo mo mooooooo moooo; mooo, moo mooooooo

herds crouch abased before the tremendous centralization. Nor, will the
moooo mooooo mooooo mooooo moo mooooooooo mooooooooooooo. Moo, mooo moo

tragic dramatist who would depict mortal indomitableness in its fullest
mooooo moooooooo moo moooo mooooo mooooo moooooooooooooo mo moo moooooo

sweep and direct swing, ever forget a hint, incidentally so important in
moooo moo mooooo moooo, mooo mooooo m mooo, mooooooooooo mo moooooooo mo

his art, as the one now alluded to.
moo moo, mo moo moo moo moooooo mo.




But Ahab, my Captain, still moves before me in all his Nantucket
Moo Mooo, mo Moooooo, moooo moooo mooooo mo mo moo moo Moooooooo

grimness and shagginess; and in this episode touching Emperors and
mooooooo moo mooooooooo; moo mo mooo moooooo mooooooo Mooooooo moo

Kings, I must not conceal that I have only to do with a poor old
Moooo, M mooo moo moooooo mooo M mooo mooo mo mo mooo m mooo moo

whale-hunter like him; and, therefore, all outward majestical trappings
moooo-mooooo mooo moo; moo, moooooooo, moo moooooo mooooooooo moooooooo

and housings are denied me. Oh, Ahab! what shall be grand in thee, it
moo mooooooo moo mooooo mo. Mo, Mooo! mooo moooo mo moooo mo mooo, mo

must needs be plucked at from the skies, and dived for in the deep, and
mooo moooo mo moooooo mo mooo moo moooo, moo moooo moo mo moo mooo, moo

featured in the unbodied air!
mooooooo mo moo mooooooo moo!










CHAPTER 34. The Cabin-Table.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Moooo-Moooo.







It is noon; and Dough-Boy, the steward, thrusting his pale loaf-of-bread
Mo mo mooo; moo Moooo-Moo, moo moooooo, moooooooo moo mooo mooo-mo-moooo

face from the cabin-scuttle, announces dinner to his lord and
mooo mooo moo moooo-moooooo, moooooooo mooooo mo moo mooo moo

master; who, sitting in the lee quarter-boat, has just been taking an
mooooo; moo, moooooo mo moo moo moooooo-mooo, moo mooo mooo mooooo mo

observation of the sun; and is now mutely reckoning the latitude on the
moooooooooo mo moo moo; moo mo moo mooooo moooooooo moo mooooooo mo moo

smooth, medallion-shaped tablet, reserved for that daily purpose on
mooooo, moooooooo-mooooo mooooo, mooooooo moo mooo moooo moooooo mo

the upper part of his ivory leg. From his complete inattention to the
moo moooo mooo mo moo moooo moo. Mooo moo mooooooo moooooooooo mo moo

tidings, you would think that moody Ahab had not heard his menial. But
moooooo, moo moooo moooo mooo moooo Mooo moo moo moooo moo mooooo. Moo

presently, catching hold of the mizen shrouds, he swings himself to
moooooooo, mooooooo mooo mo moo moooo moooooo, mo mooooo moooooo mo

the deck, and in an even, unexhilarated voice, saying, "Dinner, Mr.
moo mooo, moo mo mo mooo, moooooooooooo moooo, mooooo, "Mooooo, Mo.

Starbuck," disappears into the cabin.
Mooooooo," mooooooooo mooo moo moooo.




When the last echo of his sultan's step has died away, and Starbuck, the
Mooo moo mooo mooo mo moo mooooo'm mooo moo mooo mooo, moo Mooooooo, moo

first Emir, has every reason to suppose that he is seated, then Starbuck
moooo Mooo, moo moooo mooooo mo moooooo mooo mo mo mooooo, mooo Mooooooo

rouses from his quietude, takes a few turns along the planks, and, after
mooooo mooo moo mooooooo, moooo m moo moooo moooo moo mooooo, moo, moooo

a grave peep into the binnacle, says, with some touch of pleasantness,
m moooo mooo mooo moo mooooooo, mooo, mooo mooo moooo mo mooooooooooo,

"Dinner, Mr. Stubb," and descends the scuttle. The second Emir lounges
"Mooooo, Mo. Moooo," moo mooooooo moo moooooo. Moo mooooo Mooo moooooo

about the rigging awhile, and then slightly shaking the main brace, to
moooo moo moooooo mooooo, moo mooo mooooooo moooooo moo mooo moooo, mo

see whether it will be all right with that important rope, he likewise
moo moooooo mo mooo mo moo moooo mooo mooo moooooooo mooo, mo mooooooo

takes up the old burden, and with a rapid "Dinner, Mr. Flask," follows
moooo mo moo moo mooooo, moo mooo m moooo "Mooooo, Mo. Moooo," moooooo

after his predecessors.
moooo moo mooooooooooo.




But the third Emir, now seeing himself all alone on the quarter-deck,
Moo moo moooo Mooo, moo mooooo moooooo moo moooo mo moo moooooo-mooo,

seems to feel relieved from some curious restraint; for, tipping all
moooo mo mooo mooooooo mooo mooo moooooo moooooooo; moo, moooooo moo

sorts of knowing winks in all sorts of directions, and kicking off his
moooo mo moooooo moooo mo moo moooo mo mooooooooo, moo moooooo moo moo

shoes, he strikes into a sharp but noiseless squall of a hornpipe right
moooo, mo moooooo mooo m moooo moo moooooooo mooooo mo m mooooooo moooo

over the Grand Turk's head; and then, by a dexterous sleight, pitching
mooo moo Moooo Mooo'm mooo; moo mooo, mo m moooooooo moooooo, mooooooo

his cap up into the mizentop for a shelf, he goes down rollicking so
moo moo mo mooo moo mooooooo moo m moooo, mo mooo mooo mooooooooo mo

far at least as he remains visible from the deck, reversing all other
moo mo moooo mo mo moooooo moooooo mooo moo mooo, moooooooo moo moooo

processions, by bringing up the rear with music. But ere stepping into
moooooooooo, mo mooooooo mo moo mooo mooo moooo. Moo moo mooooooo mooo

the cabin doorway below, he pauses, ships a new face altogether, and,
moo moooo moooooo moooo, mo mooooo, moooo m moo mooo mooooooooo, moo,

then, independent, hilarious little Flask enters King Ahab's presence,
mooo, moooooooooo, moooooooo mooooo Moooo mooooo Mooo Mooo'm mooooooo,

in the character of Abjectus, or the Slave.
mo moo moooooooo mo Mooooooo, mo moo Moooo.




It is not the least among the strange things bred by the intense
Mo mo moo moo moooo moooo moo moooooo mooooo mooo mo moo moooooo

artificialness of sea-usages, that while in the open air of the deck
mooooooooooooo mo moo-mooooo, mooo moooo mo moo mooo moo mo moo mooo

some officers will, upon provocation, bear themselves boldly and
mooo mooooooo mooo, mooo moooooooooo, mooo mooooooooo mooooo moo

defyingly enough towards their commander; yet, ten to one, let those
moooooooo mooooo moooooo moooo moooooooo; moo, moo mo moo, moo moooo

very officers the next moment go down to their customary dinner in that
mooo mooooooo moo mooo mooooo mo mooo mo moooo moooooooo mooooo mo mooo

same commander's cabin, and straightway their inoffensive, not to say
mooo moooooooo'm moooo, moo moooooooooo moooo moooooooooo, moo mo moo

deprecatory and humble air towards him, as he sits at the head of
moooooooooo moo mooooo moo moooooo moo, mo mo mooo mo moo mooo mo

the table; this is marvellous, sometimes most comical. Wherefore this
moo moooo; mooo mo mooooooooo, moooooooo mooo moooooo. Moooooooo mooo

difference? A problem? Perhaps not. To have been Belshazzar, King of
mooooooooo? M moooooo? Moooooo moo. Mo mooo mooo Mooooooooo, Mooo mo

Babylon; and to have been Belshazzar, not haughtily but courteously,
Moooooo; moo mo mooo mooo Mooooooooo, moo moooooooo moo moooooooooo,

therein certainly must have been some touch of mundane grandeur. But he
moooooo moooooooo mooo mooo mooo mooo moooo mo moooooo mooooooo. Moo mo

who in the rightly regal and intelligent spirit presides over his own
moo mo moo moooooo moooo moo moooooooooo mooooo mooooooo mooo moo moo

private dinner-table of invited guests, that man's unchallenged power
moooooo mooooo-moooo mo moooooo mooooo, mooo moo'm mooooooooooo moooo

and dominion of individual influence for the time; that man's royalty of
moo mooooooo mo mooooooooo moooooooo moo moo mooo; mooo moo'm moooooo mo

state transcends Belshazzar's, for Belshazzar was not the greatest. Who
moooo mooooooooo Mooooooooo'm, moo Mooooooooo moo moo moo mooooooo. Moo

has but once dined his friends, has tasted what it is to be Caesar. It
moo moo mooo moooo moo moooooo, moo mooooo mooo mo mo mo mo Mooooo. Mo

is a witchery of social czarship which there is no withstanding. Now,
mo m mooooooo mo mooooo mooooooo moooo moooo mo mo mooooooooooo. Moo,

if to this consideration you superadd the official supremacy of a
mo mo mooo moooooooooooo moo mooooooo moo mooooooo moooooooo mo m

ship-master, then, by inference, you will derive the cause of that
mooo-mooooo, mooo, mo moooooooo, moo mooo mooooo moo moooo mo mooo

peculiarity of sea-life just mentioned.
moooooooooo mo moo-mooo mooo moooooooo.




Over his ivory-inlaid table, Ahab presided like a mute, maned
Mooo moo moooo-mooooo moooo, Mooo mooooooo mooo m mooo, moooo

sea-lion on the white coral beach, surrounded by his warlike but still
moo-mooo mo moo moooo moooo moooo, mooooooooo mo moo moooooo moo moooo

deferential cubs. In his own proper turn, each officer waited to be
moooooooooo mooo. Mo moo moo mooooo mooo, mooo moooooo mooooo mo mo

served. They were as little children before Ahab; and yet, in Ahab,
mooooo. Mooo mooo mo mooooo mooooooo mooooo Mooo; moo moo, mo Mooo,

there seemed not to lurk the smallest social arrogance. With one mind,
moooo mooooo moo mo mooo moo mooooooo mooooo moooooooo. Mooo moo mooo,

their intent eyes all fastened upon the old man's knife, as he carved
moooo mooooo mooo moo mooooooo mooo moo moo moo'm moooo, mo mo mooooo

the chief dish before him. I do not suppose that for the world they
moo moooo mooo mooooo moo. M mo moo moooooo mooo moo moo moooo mooo

would have profaned that moment with the slightest observation, even
moooo mooo mooooooo mooo mooooo mooo moo moooooooo moooooooooo, mooo

upon so neutral a topic as the weather. No! And when reaching out his
mooo mo moooooo m moooo mo moo moooooo. Mo! Moo mooo mooooooo moo moo

knife and fork, between which the slice of beef was locked, Ahab thereby
moooo moo mooo, moooooo moooo moo moooo mo mooo moo mooooo, Mooo moooooo

motioned Starbuck's plate towards him, the mate received his meat as
mooooooo Mooooooo'm moooo moooooo moo, moo mooo mooooooo moo mooo mo

though receiving alms; and cut it tenderly; and a little started
mooooo moooooooo mooo; moo moo mo mooooooo; moo m mooooo moooooo

if, perchance, the knife grazed against the plate; and chewed it
mo, moooooooo, moo moooo mooooo moooooo moo moooo; moo mooooo mo

noiselessly; and swallowed it, not without circumspection. For, like
moooooooooo; moo moooooooo mo, moo moooooo mooooooooooooo. Moo, mooo

the Coronation banquet at Frankfort, where the German Emperor profoundly
moo Mooooooooo moooooo mo Moooooooo, moooo moo Mooooo Moooooo mooooooooo

dines with the seven Imperial Electors, so these cabin meals were
moooo mooo moo moooo Mooooooo Mooooooo, mo moooo moooo moooo mooo

somehow solemn meals, eaten in awful silence; and yet at table old Ahab
moooooo mooooo moooo, moooo mo moooo moooooo; moo moo mo moooo moo Mooo

forbade not conversation; only he himself was dumb. What a relief it was
moooooo moo mooooooooooo; mooo mo moooooo moo mooo. Mooo m mooooo mo moo

to choking Stubb, when a rat made a sudden racket in the hold below. And
mo moooooo Moooo, mooo m moo mooo m mooooo mooooo mo moo mooo moooo. Moo

poor little Flask, he was the youngest son, and little boy of this weary
mooo mooooo Moooo, mo moo moo mooooooo moo, moo mooooo moo mo mooo moooo

family party. His were the shinbones of the saline beef; his would have
mooooo moooo. Moo mooo moo moooooooo mo moo mooooo mooo; moo moooo mooo

been the drumsticks. For Flask to have presumed to help himself, this
mooo moo mooooooooo. Moo Moooo mo mooo mooooooo mo mooo moooooo, mooo

must have seemed to him tantamount to larceny in the first degree. Had
mooo mooo mooooo mo moo mooooooooo mo moooooo mo moo moooo mooooo. Moo

he helped himself at that table, doubtless, never more would he have
mo mooooo moooooo mo mooo moooo, moooooooo, moooo mooo moooo mo mooo

been able to hold his head up in this honest world; nevertheless,
mooo mooo mo mooo moo mooo mo mo mooo mooooo moooo; mooooooooooo,

strange to say, Ahab never forbade him. And had Flask helped himself,
moooooo mo moo, Mooo moooo moooooo moo. Moo moo Moooo mooooo moooooo,

the chances were Ahab had never so much as noticed it. Least of all, did
moo moooooo mooo Mooo moo moooo mo mooo mo moooooo mo. Moooo mo moo, moo

Flask presume to help himself to butter. Whether he thought the owners
Moooo moooooo mo mooo moooooo mo mooooo. Moooooo mo moooooo moo mooooo

of the ship denied it to him, on account of its clotting his clear,
mo moo mooo mooooo mo mo moo, mo moooooo mo moo mooooooo moo moooo,

sunny complexion; or whether he deemed that, on so long a voyage in such
moooo mooooooooo; mo moooooo mo mooooo mooo, mo mo mooo m mooooo mo mooo

marketless waters, butter was at a premium, and therefore was not for
mooooooooo mooooo, mooooo moo mo m moooooo, moo moooooooo moo moo moo

him, a subaltern; however it was, Flask, alas! was a butterless man!
moo, m moooooooo; moooooo mo moo, Moooo, mooo! moo m mooooooooo moo!




Another thing. Flask was the last person down at the dinner, and Flask
Moooooo moooo. Moooo moo moo mooo mooooo mooo mo moo mooooo, moo Moooo

is the first man up. Consider! For hereby Flask's dinner was badly
mo moo moooo moo mo. Mooooooo! Moo mooooo Moooo'm mooooo moo moooo

jammed in point of time. Starbuck and Stubb both had the start of him;
mooooo mo moooo mo mooo. Mooooooo moo Moooo mooo moo moo moooo mo moo;

and yet they also have the privilege of lounging in the rear. If Stubb
moo moo mooo mooo mooo moo moooooooo mo mooooooo mo moo mooo. Mo Moooo

even, who is but a peg higher than Flask, happens to have but a small
mooo, moo mo moo m moo mooooo mooo Moooo, moooooo mo mooo moo m moooo

appetite, and soon shows symptoms of concluding his repast, then Flask
mooooooo, moo mooo moooo mooooooo mo mooooooooo moo mooooo, mooo Moooo

must bestir himself, he will not get more than three mouthfuls that day;
mooo mooooo moooooo, mo mooo moo moo mooo mooo moooo moooooooo mooo moo;

for it is against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to the deck.
moo mo mo moooooo mooo moooo moo Moooo mo moooooo Moooo mo moo mooo.

Therefore it was that Flask once admitted in private, that ever since he
Moooooooo mo moo mooo Moooo mooo mooooooo mo moooooo, mooo mooo moooo mo

had arisen to the dignity of an officer, from that moment he had never
moo mooooo mo moo moooooo mo mo moooooo, mooo mooo mooooo mo moo moooo

known what it was to be otherwise than hungry, more or less. For what
moooo mooo mo moo mo mo moooooooo mooo mooooo, mooo mo mooo. Moo mooo

he ate did not so much relieve his hunger, as keep it immortal in him.
mo moo moo moo mo mooo moooooo moo mooooo, mo mooo mo mooooooo mo moo.

Peace and satisfaction, thought Flask, have for ever departed from
Moooo moo mooooooooooo, moooooo Moooo, mooo moo mooo mooooooo mooo

my stomach. I am an officer; but, how I wish I could fish a bit of
mo moooooo. M mo mo moooooo; moo, moo M mooo M moooo mooo m moo mo

old-fashioned beef in the forecastle, as I used to when I was before the
moo-moooooooo mooo mo moo mooooooooo, mo M mooo mo mooo M moo mooooo moo

mast. There's the fruits of promotion now; there's the vanity of glory:
mooo. Moooo'm moo mooooo mo moooooooo moo; moooo'm moo mooooo mo moooo:

there's the insanity of life! Besides, if it were so that any mere
moooo'm moo mooooooo mo mooo! Moooooo, mo mo mooo mo mooo moo mooo

sailor of the Pequod had a grudge against Flask in Flask's official
mooooo mo moo Mooooo moo m mooooo moooooo Moooo mo Moooo'm mooooooo

capacity, all that sailor had to do, in order to obtain ample vengeance,
mooooooo, moo mooo mooooo moo mo mo, mo moooo mo mooooo moooo moooooooo,

was to go aft at dinner-time, and get a peep at Flask through the cabin
moo mo mo moo mo mooooo-mooo, moo moo m mooo mo Moooo moooooo moo moooo

sky-light, sitting silly and dumfoundered before awful Ahab.
moo-moooo, moooooo moooo moo mooooooooooo mooooo moooo Mooo.




Now, Ahab and his three mates formed what may be called the first table
Moo, Mooo moo moo moooo moooo mooooo mooo moo mo mooooo moo moooo moooo

in the Pequod's cabin. After their departure, taking place in inverted
mo moo Mooooo'm moooo. Moooo moooo moooooooo, mooooo moooo mo mooooooo

order to their arrival, the canvas cloth was cleared, or rather was
moooo mo moooo moooooo, moo mooooo moooo moo moooooo, mo mooooo moo

restored to some hurried order by the pallid steward. And then the three
mooooooo mo mooo moooooo moooo mo moo mooooo moooooo. Moo mooo moo moooo

harpooneers were bidden to the feast, they being its residuary legatees.
moooooooooo mooo mooooo mo moo moooo, mooo moooo moo moooooooo mooooooo.

They made a sort of temporary servants' hall of the high and mighty
Mooo mooo m mooo mo moooooooo mooooooo' mooo mo moo mooo moo mooooo

cabin.
moooo.




In strange contrast to the hardly tolerable constraint and nameless
Mo moooooo mooooooo mo moo mooooo moooooooo mooooooooo moo mooooooo

invisible domineerings of the captain's table, was the entire care-free
moooooooo mooooooooooo mo moo moooooo'm moooo, moo moo mooooo mooo-mooo

license and ease, the almost frantic democracy of those inferior fellows
moooooo moo mooo, moo mooooo moooooo moooooooo mo moooo mooooooo moooooo

the harpooneers. While their masters, the mates, seemed afraid of the
moo moooooooooo. Moooo moooo moooooo, moo moooo, mooooo mooooo mo moo

sound of the hinges of their own jaws, the harpooneers chewed their food
moooo mo moo mooooo mo moooo moo mooo, moo moooooooooo mooooo moooo mooo

with such a relish that there was a report to it. They dined like lords;
mooo mooo m mooooo mooo moooo moo m mooooo mo mo. Mooo moooo mooo moooo;

they filled their bellies like Indian ships all day loading with spices.
mooo mooooo moooo moooooo mooo Mooooo moooo moo moo moooooo mooo mooooo.

Such portentous appetites had Queequeg and Tashtego, that to fill out
Mooo mooooooooo moooooooo moo Mooooooo moo Mooooooo, mooo mo mooo moo

the vacancies made by the previous repast, often the pale Dough-Boy was
moo moooooooo mooo mo moo mooooooo mooooo, moooo moo mooo Moooo-Moo moo

fain to bring on a great baron of salt-junk, seemingly quarried out of
mooo mo moooo mo m moooo moooo mo mooo-mooo, moooooooo mooooooo moo mo

the solid ox. And if he were not lively about it, if he did not go with
moo moooo mo. Moo mo mo mooo moo mooooo moooo mo, mo mo moo moo mo mooo

a nimble hop-skip-and-jump, then Tashtego had an ungentlemanly way of
m mooooo moo-mooo-moo-mooo, mooo Mooooooo moo mo moooooooooooo moo mo

accelerating him by darting a fork at his back, harpoon-wise. And once
mooooooooooo moo mo moooooo m mooo mo moo mooo, moooooo-mooo. Moo mooo

Daggoo, seized with a sudden humor, assisted Dough-Boy's memory by
Mooooo, mooooo mooo m mooooo moooo, mooooooo Moooo-Moo'm mooooo mo

snatching him up bodily, and thrusting his head into a great empty
moooooooo moo mo mooooo, moo moooooooo moo mooo mooo m moooo moooo

wooden trencher, while Tashtego, knife in hand, began laying out the
mooooo mooooooo, moooo Mooooooo, moooo mo mooo, moooo mooooo moo moo

circle preliminary to scalping him. He was naturally a very nervous,
mooooo moooooooooo mo mooooooo moo. Mo moo moooooooo m mooo moooooo,

shuddering sort of little fellow, this bread-faced steward; the progeny
mooooooooo mooo mo mooooo mooooo, mooo moooo-moooo moooooo; moo moooooo

of a bankrupt baker and a hospital nurse. And what with the standing
mo m mooooooo moooo moo m mooooooo moooo. Moo mooo mooo moo mooooooo

spectacle of the black terrific Ahab, and the periodical tumultuous
moooooooo mo moo moooo mooooooo Mooo, moo moo mooooooooo mooooooooo

visitations of these three savages, Dough-Boy's whole life was one
moooooooooo mo moooo moooo moooooo, Moooo-Moo'm moooo mooo moo moo

continual lip-quiver. Commonly, after seeing the harpooneers furnished
moooooooo moo-mooooo. Mooooooo, moooo mooooo moo moooooooooo moooooooo

with all things they demanded, he would escape from their clutches into
mooo moo mooooo mooo mooooooo, mo moooo mooooo mooo moooo mooooooo mooo

his little pantry adjoining, and fearfully peep out at them through the
moo mooooo mooooo moooooooo, moo moooooooo mooo moo mo mooo moooooo moo

blinds of its door, till all was over.
mooooo mo moo mooo, mooo moo moo mooo.




It was a sight to see Queequeg seated over against Tashtego, opposing
Mo moo m moooo mo moo Mooooooo mooooo mooo moooooo Mooooooo, mooooooo

his filed teeth to the Indian's: crosswise to them, Daggoo seated on the
moo moooo moooo mo moo Mooooo'm: moooooooo mo mooo, Mooooo mooooo mo moo

floor, for a bench would have brought his hearse-plumed head to the low
moooo, moo m moooo moooo mooo moooooo moo mooooo-mooooo mooo mo moo moo

carlines; at every motion of his colossal limbs, making the low cabin
mooooooo; mo moooo mooooo mo moo mooooooo moooo, mooooo moo moo moooo

framework to shake, as when an African elephant goes passenger in a
moooooooo mo moooo, mo mooo mo Moooooo mooooooo mooo moooooooo mo m

ship. But for all this, the great negro was wonderfully abstemious,
mooo. Moo moo moo mooo, moo moooo moooo moo moooooooooo mooooooooo,

not to say dainty. It seemed hardly possible that by such comparatively
moo mo moo mooooo. Mo mooooo mooooo mooooooo mooo mo mooo moooooooooooo

small mouthfuls he could keep up the vitality diffused through so broad,
moooo moooooooo mo moooo mooo mo moo mooooooo mooooooo moooooo mo moooo,

baronial, and superb a person. But, doubtless, this noble savage fed
mooooooo, moo mooooo m mooooo. Moo, moooooooo, mooo moooo mooooo moo

strong and drank deep of the abounding element of air; and through his
mooooo moo moooo mooo mo moo moooooooo moooooo mo moo; moo moooooo moo

dilated nostrils snuffed in the sublime life of the worlds. Not by
moooooo mooooooo moooooo mo moo moooooo mooo mo moo mooooo. Moo mo

beef or by bread, are giants made or nourished. But Queequeg, he had a
mooo mo mo moooo, moo mooooo mooo mo moooooooo. Moo Mooooooo, mo moo m

mortal, barbaric smack of the lip in eating--an ugly sound enough--so
mooooo, mooooooo moooo mo moo moo mo mooooo--mo mooo moooo mooooo--mo

much so, that the trembling Dough-Boy almost looked to see whether
mooo mo, mooo moo moooooooo Moooo-Moo mooooo mooooo mo moo moooooo

any marks of teeth lurked in his own lean arms. And when he would hear
moo moooo mo moooo mooooo mo moo moo mooo mooo. Moo mooo mo moooo mooo

Tashtego singing out for him to produce himself, that his bones might be
Mooooooo moooooo moo moo moo mo moooooo moooooo, mooo moo moooo moooo mo

picked, the simple-witted steward all but shattered the crockery hanging
mooooo, moo mooooo-mooooo moooooo moo moo moooooooo moo mooooooo moooooo

round him in the pantry, by his sudden fits of the palsy. Nor did the
moooo moo mo moo mooooo, mo moo mooooo mooo mo moo moooo. Moo moo moo

whetstone which the harpooneers carried in their pockets, for their
moooooooo moooo moo moooooooooo moooooo mo moooo moooooo, moo moooo

lances and other weapons; and with which whetstones, at dinner, they
mooooo moo moooo moooooo; moo mooo moooo mooooooooo, mo mooooo, mooo

would ostentatiously sharpen their knives; that grating sound did not at
moooo mooooooooooooo moooooo moooo mooooo; mooo moooooo moooo moo moo mo

all tend to tranquillize poor Dough-Boy. How could he forget that in his
moo mooo mo mooooooooooo mooo Moooo-Moo. Moo moooo mo mooooo mooo mo moo

Island days, Queequeg, for one, must certainly have been guilty of some
Mooooo mooo, Mooooooo, moo moo, mooo moooooooo mooo mooo mooooo mo mooo

murderous, convivial indiscretions. Alas! Dough-Boy! hard fares the
moooooooo, moooooooo moooooooooooo. Mooo! Moooo-Moo! mooo moooo moo

white waiter who waits upon cannibals. Not a napkin should he carry on
moooo mooooo moo moooo mooo moooooooo. Moo m mooooo mooooo mo moooo mo

his arm, but a buckler. In good time, though, to his great delight,
moo moo, moo m moooooo. Mo mooo mooo, mooooo, mo moo moooo moooooo,

the three salt-sea warriors would rise and depart; to his credulous,
moo moooo mooo-moo mooooooo moooo mooo moo mooooo; mo moo moooooooo,

fable-mongering ears, all their martial bones jingling in them at every
moooo-moooooooo mooo, moo moooo moooooo moooo mooooooo mo mooo mo moooo

step, like Moorish scimetars in scabbards.
mooo, mooo Moooooo moooooooo mo moooooooo.




But, though these barbarians dined in the cabin, and nominally lived
Moo, mooooo moooo mooooooooo moooo mo moo moooo, moo moooooooo moooo

there; still, being anything but sedentary in their habits, they were
moooo; moooo, moooo mooooooo moo moooooooo mo moooo mooooo, mooo mooo

scarcely ever in it except at mealtimes, and just before sleeping-time,
mooooooo mooo mo mo mooooo mo moooooooo, moo mooo mooooo mooooooo-mooo,

when they passed through it to their own peculiar quarters.
mooo mooo mooooo moooooo mo mo moooo moo mooooooo mooooooo.




In this one matter, Ahab seemed no exception to most American whale
Mo mooo moo mooooo, Mooo mooooo mo moooooooo mo mooo Mooooooo moooo

captains, who, as a set, rather incline to the opinion that by rights
mooooooo, moo, mo m moo, mooooo moooooo mo moo moooooo mooo mo mooooo

the ship's cabin belongs to them; and that it is by courtesy alone that
moo mooo'm moooo moooooo mo mooo; moo mooo mo mo mo mooooooo moooo mooo

anybody else is, at any time, permitted there. So that, in real truth,
moooooo mooo mo, mo moo mooo, moooooooo moooo. Mo mooo, mo mooo moooo,

the mates and harpooneers of the Pequod might more properly be said to
moo moooo moo moooooooooo mo moo Mooooo moooo mooo mooooooo mo mooo mo

have lived out of the cabin than in it. For when they did enter it, it
mooo moooo moo mo moo moooo mooo mo mo. Moo mooo mooo moo moooo mo, mo

was something as a street-door enters a house; turning inwards for
moo moooooooo mo m mooooo-mooo mooooo m moooo; moooooo moooooo moo

a moment, only to be turned out the next; and, as a permanent thing,
m mooooo, mooo mo mo mooooo moo moo mooo; moo, mo m moooooooo moooo,

residing in the open air. Nor did they lose much hereby; in the cabin
mooooooo mo moo mooo moo. Moo moo mooo mooo mooo mooooo; mo moo moooo

was no companionship; socially, Ahab was inaccessible. Though nominally
moo mo moooooooooooo; mooooooo, Mooo moo mooooooooooo. Mooooo moooooooo

included in the census of Christendom, he was still an alien to it. He
mooooooo mo moo mooooo mo Moooooooooo, mo moo moooo mo moooo mo mo. Mo

lived in the world, as the last of the Grisly Bears lived in settled
moooo mo moo moooo, mo moo mooo mo moo Mooooo Moooo moooo mo moooooo

Missouri. And as when Spring and Summer had departed, that wild Logan of
Mooooooo. Moo mo mooo Mooooo moo Mooooo moo mooooooo, mooo mooo Moooo mo

the woods, burying himself in the hollow of a tree, lived out the winter
moo moooo, moooooo moooooo mo moo mooooo mo m mooo, moooo moo moo mooooo

there, sucking his own paws; so, in his inclement, howling old age,
moooo, moooooo moo moo mooo; mo, mo moo moooooooo, moooooo moo moo,

Ahab's soul, shut up in the caved trunk of his body, there fed upon the
Mooo'm mooo, mooo mo mo moo moooo moooo mo moo mooo, moooo moo mooo moo

sullen paws of its gloom!
mooooo mooo mo moo moooo!










CHAPTER 35. The Mast-Head.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Mooo-Mooo.







It was during the more pleasant weather, that in due rotation with the
Mo moo mooooo moo mooo mooooooo moooooo, mooo mo moo mooooooo mooo moo

other seamen my first mast-head came round.
moooo mooooo mo moooo mooo-mooo mooo moooo.




In most American whalemen the mast-heads are manned almost
Mo mooo Mooooooo mooooooo moo mooo-moooo moo mooooo mooooo

simultaneously with the vessel's leaving her port; even though she may
mooooooooooooo mooo moo mooooo'm moooooo moo mooo; mooo mooooo moo moo

have fifteen thousand miles, and more, to sail ere reaching her proper
mooo moooooo mooooooo moooo, moo mooo, mo mooo moo mooooooo moo mooooo

cruising ground. And if, after a three, four, or five years' voyage
mooooooo mooooo. Moo mo, moooo m moooo, mooo, mo mooo moooo' mooooo

she is drawing nigh home with anything empty in her--say, an empty vial
moo mo moooooo mooo mooo mooo mooooooo moooo mo moo--moo, mo moooo mooo

even--then, her mast-heads are kept manned to the last; and not till her
mooo--mooo, moo mooo-moooo moo mooo mooooo mo moo mooo; moo moo mooo moo

skysail-poles sail in among the spires of the port, does she altogether
moooooo-moooo mooo mo moooo moo mooooo mo moo mooo, mooo moo mooooooooo

relinquish the hope of capturing one whale more.
mooooooooo moo mooo mo moooooooo moo moooo mooo.




Now, as the business of standing mast-heads, ashore or afloat, is a very
Moo, mo moo mooooooo mo mooooooo mooo-moooo, mooooo mo mooooo, mo m mooo

ancient and interesting one, let us in some measure expatiate here.
moooooo moo moooooooooo moo, moo mo mo mooo moooooo moooooooo mooo.

I take it, that the earliest standers of mast-heads were the old
M mooo mo, mooo moo mooooooo mooooooo mo mooo-moooo mooo moo moo

Egyptians; because, in all my researches, I find none prior to them.
Moooooooo; moooooo, mo moo mo mooooooooo, M mooo mooo moooo mo mooo.

For though their progenitors, the builders of Babel, must doubtless, by
Moo mooooo moooo moooooooooo, moo mooooooo mo Moooo, mooo moooooooo, mo

their tower, have intended to rear the loftiest mast-head in all Asia,
moooo moooo, mooo mooooooo mo mooo moo mooooooo mooo-mooo mo moo Mooo,

or Africa either; yet (ere the final truck was put to it) as that great
mo Mooooo mooooo; moo (moo moo moooo moooo moo moo mo mo) mo mooo moooo

stone mast of theirs may be said to have gone by the board, in the dread
moooo mooo mo mooooo moo mo mooo mo mooo mooo mo moo moooo, mo moo moooo

gale of God's wrath; therefore, we cannot give these Babel builders
mooo mo Moo'm moooo; moooooooo, mo mooooo mooo moooo Moooo mooooooo

priority over the Egyptians. And that the Egyptians were a nation of
mooooooo mooo moo Moooooooo. Moo mooo moo Moooooooo mooo m mooooo mo

mast-head standers, is an assertion based upon the general belief among
mooo-mooo mooooooo, mo mo moooooooo moooo mooo moo moooooo mooooo moooo

archaeologists, that the first pyramids were founded for astronomical
mooooooooooooo, mooo moo moooo mooooooo mooo moooooo moo mooooooooooo

purposes: a theory singularly supported by the peculiar stair-like
mooooooo: m mooooo mooooooooo moooooooo mo moo mooooooo moooo-mooo

formation of all four sides of those edifices; whereby, with prodigious
moooooooo mo moo mooo moooo mo moooo mooooooo; moooooo, mooo mooooooooo

long upliftings of their legs, those old astronomers were wont to mount
mooo mooooooooo mo moooo mooo, moooo moo moooooooooo mooo mooo mo moooo

to the apex, and sing out for new stars; even as the look-outs of a
mo moo mooo, moo mooo moo moo moo moooo; mooo mo moo mooo-mooo mo m

modern ship sing out for a sail, or a whale just bearing in sight. In
mooooo mooo mooo moo moo m mooo, mo m moooo mooo moooooo mo moooo. Mo

Saint Stylites, the famous Christian hermit of old times, who built him
Moooo Mooooooo, moo mooooo Moooooooo mooooo mo moo moooo, moo moooo moo

a lofty stone pillar in the desert and spent the whole latter portion of
m moooo moooo mooooo mo moo mooooo moo moooo moo moooo mooooo moooooo mo

his life on its summit, hoisting his food from the ground with a
moo mooo mo moo mooooo, mooooooo moo mooo mooo moo mooooo mooo m

tackle; in him we have a remarkable instance of a dauntless
mooooo; mo moo mo mooo m mooooooooo mooooooo mo m moooooooo

stander-of-mast-heads; who was not to be driven from his place by fogs
moooooo-mo-mooo-moooo; moo moo moo mo mo mooooo mooo moo moooo mo mooo

or frosts, rain, hail, or sleet; but valiantly facing everything out to
mo mooooo, mooo, mooo, mo moooo; moo moooooooo mooooo mooooooooo moo mo

the last, literally died at his post. Of modern standers-of-mast-heads
moo mooo, moooooooo mooo mo moo mooo. Mo mooooo mooooooo-mo-mooo-moooo

we have but a lifeless set; mere stone, iron, and bronze men; who,
mo mooo moo m mooooooo moo; mooo moooo, mooo, moo mooooo moo; moo,

though well capable of facing out a stiff gale, are still entirely
mooooo mooo moooooo mo mooooo moo m moooo mooo, moo moooo mooooooo

incompetent to the business of singing out upon discovering any strange
moooooooooo mo moo mooooooo mo moooooo moo mooo moooooooooo moo moooooo

sight. There is Napoleon; who, upon the top of the column of Vendome,
moooo. Moooo mo Mooooooo; moo, mooo moo moo mo moo mooooo mo Moooooo,

stands with arms folded, some one hundred and fifty feet in the air;
mooooo mooo mooo mooooo, mooo moo moooooo moo moooo mooo mo moo moo;

careless, now, who rules the decks below; whether Louis Philippe, Louis
mooooooo, moo, moo moooo moo moooo moooo; moooooo Moooo Mooooooo, Moooo

Blanc, or Louis the Devil. Great Washington, too, stands high aloft on
Moooo, mo Moooo moo Moooo. Moooo Mooooooooo, moo, mooooo mooo moooo mo

his towering main-mast in Baltimore, and like one of Hercules' pillars,
moo mooooooo mooo-mooo mo Moooooooo, moo mooo moo mo Mooooooo' moooooo,

his column marks that point of human grandeur beyond which few mortals
moo mooooo moooo mooo moooo mo moooo mooooooo mooooo moooo moo moooooo

will go. Admiral Nelson, also, on a capstan of gun-metal, stands his
mooo mo. Moooooo Mooooo, mooo, mo m moooooo mo moo-moooo, mooooo moo

mast-head in Trafalgar Square; and ever when most obscured by that
mooo-mooo mo Moooooooo Mooooo; moo mooo mooo mooo mooooooo mo mooo

London smoke, token is yet given that a hidden hero is there; for
Mooooo moooo, moooo mo moo moooo mooo m mooooo mooo mo moooo; moo

where there is smoke, must be fire. But neither great Washington, nor
moooo moooo mo moooo, mooo mo mooo. Moo moooooo moooo Mooooooooo, moo

Napoleon, nor Nelson, will answer a single hail from below, however
Mooooooo, moo Mooooo, mooo mooooo m mooooo mooo mooo moooo, moooooo

madly invoked to befriend by their counsels the distracted decks
moooo moooooo mo mooooooo mo moooo mooooooo moo mooooooooo moooo

upon which they gaze; however it may be surmised, that their spirits
mooo moooo mooo mooo; moooooo mo moo mo mooooooo, mooo moooo moooooo

penetrate through the thick haze of the future, and descry what shoals
moooooooo moooooo moo moooo mooo mo moo mooooo, moo mooooo mooo mooooo

and what rocks must be shunned.
moo mooo moooo mooo mo moooooo.




It may seem unwarrantable to couple in any respect the mast-head
Mo moo mooo moooooooooooo mo mooooo mo moo moooooo moo mooo-mooo

standers of the land with those of the sea; but that in truth it is
mooooooo mo moo mooo mooo moooo mo moo moo; moo mooo mo moooo mo mo

not so, is plainly evinced by an item for which Obed Macy, the sole
moo mo, mo moooooo moooooo mo mo mooo moo moooo Mooo Mooo, moo mooo

historian of Nantucket, stands accountable. The worthy Obed tells us,
moooooooo mo Moooooooo, mooooo moooooooooo. Moo mooooo Mooo moooo mo,

that in the early times of the whale fishery, ere ships were regularly
mooo mo moo moooo moooo mo moo moooo moooooo, moo moooo mooo moooooooo

launched in pursuit of the game, the people of that island erected lofty
mooooooo mo moooooo mo moo mooo, moo mooooo mo mooo mooooo moooooo moooo

spars along the sea-coast, to which the look-outs ascended by means
moooo moooo moo moo-moooo, mo moooo moo mooo-mooo mooooooo mo moooo

of nailed cleats, something as fowls go upstairs in a hen-house. A few
mo mooooo mooooo, moooooooo mo moooo mo mooooooo mo m moo-moooo. M moo

years ago this same plan was adopted by the Bay whalemen of New Zealand,
moooo moo mooo mooo mooo moo moooooo mo moo Moo mooooooo mo Moo Moooooo,

who, upon descrying the game, gave notice to the ready-manned boats nigh
moo, mooo moooooooo moo mooo, mooo mooooo mo moo moooo-mooooo moooo mooo

the beach. But this custom has now become obsolete; turn we then to the
moo moooo. Moo mooo mooooo moo moo mooooo mooooooo; mooo mo mooo mo moo

one proper mast-head, that of a whale-ship at sea. The three mast-heads
moo mooooo mooo-mooo, mooo mo m moooo-mooo mo moo. Moo moooo mooo-moooo

are kept manned from sun-rise to sun-set; the seamen taking their
moo mooo mooooo mooo moo-mooo mo moo-moo; moo mooooo mooooo moooo

regular turns (as at the helm), and relieving each other every two
moooooo moooo (mo mo moo mooo), moo moooooooo mooo moooo moooo moo

hours. In the serene weather of the tropics it is exceedingly pleasant
moooo. Mo moo mooooo moooooo mo moo moooooo mo mo moooooooooo mooooooo

the mast-head; nay, to a dreamy meditative man it is delightful. There
moo mooo-mooo; moo, mo m mooooo mooooooooo moo mo mo mooooooooo. Moooo

you stand, a hundred feet above the silent decks, striding along the
moo moooo, m moooooo mooo moooo moo mooooo moooo, mooooooo moooo moo

deep, as if the masts were gigantic stilts, while beneath you and
mooo, mo mo moo moooo mooo mooooooo mooooo, moooo moooooo moo moo

between your legs, as it were, swim the hugest monsters of the sea, even
moooooo mooo mooo, mo mo mooo, mooo moo mooooo mooooooo mo moo moo, mooo

as ships once sailed between the boots of the famous Colossus at old
mo moooo mooo mooooo moooooo moo moooo mo moo mooooo Mooooooo mo moo

Rhodes. There you stand, lost in the infinite series of the sea, with
Mooooo. Moooo moo moooo, mooo mo moo mooooooo mooooo mo moo moo, mooo

nothing ruffled but the waves. The tranced ship indolently rolls; the
moooooo moooooo moo moo moooo. Moo moooooo mooo mooooooooo moooo; moo

drowsy trade winds blow; everything resolves you into languor. For the
mooooo moooo moooo mooo; mooooooooo mooooooo moo mooo moooooo. Moo moo

most part, in this tropic whaling life, a sublime uneventfulness invests
mooo mooo, mo mooo mooooo moooooo mooo, m moooooo mooooooooooooo moooooo

you; you hear no news; read no gazettes; extras with startling accounts
moo; moo mooo mo mooo; mooo mo mooooooo; mooooo mooo moooooooo mooooooo

of commonplaces never delude you into unnecessary excitements; you hear
mo mooooooooooo moooo mooooo moo mooo moooooooooo moooooooooo; moo mooo

of no domestic afflictions; bankrupt securities; fall of stocks; are
mo mo mooooooo moooooooooo; mooooooo mooooooooo; mooo mo mooooo; moo

never troubled with the thought of what you shall have for dinner--for
moooo mooooooo mooo moo moooooo mo mooo moo moooo mooo moo mooooo--moo

all your meals for three years and more are snugly stowed in casks, and
moo mooo moooo moo moooo moooo moo mooo moo mooooo mooooo mo moooo, moo

your bill of fare is immutable.
mooo mooo mo mooo mo moooooooo.




In one of those southern whalesmen, on a long three or four years'
Mo moo mo moooo mooooooo moooooooo, mo m mooo moooo mo mooo moooo'

voyage, as often happens, the sum of the various hours you spend at the
mooooo, mo moooo moooooo, moo moo mo moo moooooo moooo moo moooo mo moo

mast-head would amount to several entire months. And it is much to be
mooo-mooo moooo mooooo mo moooooo mooooo mooooo. Moo mo mo mooo mo mo

deplored that the place to which you devote so considerable a portion
mooooooo mooo moo moooo mo moooo moo mooooo mo mooooooooooo m moooooo

of the whole term of your natural life, should be so sadly destitute
mo moo moooo mooo mo mooo moooooo mooo, mooooo mo mo moooo moooooooo

of anything approaching to a cosy inhabitiveness, or adapted to breed a
mo mooooooo moooooooooo mo m mooo mooooooooooooo, mo moooooo mo moooo m

comfortable localness of feeling, such as pertains to a bed, a hammock,
moooooooooo moooooooo mo moooooo, mooo mo mooooooo mo m moo, m moooooo,

a hearse, a sentry box, a pulpit, a coach, or any other of those small
m mooooo, m mooooo moo, m mooooo, m moooo, mo moo moooo mo moooo moooo

and snug contrivances in which men temporarily isolate themselves. Your
moo mooo mooooooooooo mo moooo moo moooooooooo moooooo mooooooooo. Mooo

most usual point of perch is the head of the t' gallant-mast, where you
mooo moooo moooo mo moooo mo moo mooo mo moo m' moooooo-mooo, moooo moo

stand upon two thin parallel sticks (almost peculiar to whalemen) called
moooo mooo moo mooo mooooooo mooooo (mooooo mooooooo mo mooooooo) mooooo

the t' gallant cross-trees. Here, tossed about by the sea, the beginner
moo m' moooooo moooo-moooo. Mooo, mooooo moooo mo moo moo, moo mooooooo

feels about as cosy as he would standing on a bull's horns. To be sure,
moooo moooo mo mooo mo mo moooo mooooooo mo m mooo'm moooo. Mo mo mooo,

in cold weather you may carry your house aloft with you, in the shape of
mo mooo moooooo moo moo moooo mooo moooo moooo mooo moo, mo moo moooo mo

a watch-coat; but properly speaking the thickest watch-coat is no more
m moooo-mooo; moo mooooooo mooooooo moo mooooooo moooo-mooo mo mo mooo

of a house than the unclad body; for as the soul is glued inside of its
mo m moooo mooo moo mooooo mooo; moo mo moo mooo mo moooo mooooo mo moo

fleshy tabernacle, and cannot freely move about in it, nor even move out
mooooo mooooooooo, moo mooooo mooooo mooo moooo mo mo, moo mooo mooo moo

of it, without running great risk of perishing (like an ignorant pilgrim
mo mo, moooooo moooooo moooo mooo mo moooooooo (mooo mo mooooooo moooooo

crossing the snowy Alps in winter); so a watch-coat is not so much of
mooooooo moo moooo Mooo mo mooooo); mo m moooo-mooo mo moo mo mooo mo

a house as it is a mere envelope, or additional skin encasing you. You
m moooo mo mo mo m mooo mooooooo, mo mooooooooo mooo mooooooo moo. Moo

cannot put a shelf or chest of drawers in your body, and no more can you
mooooo moo m moooo mo moooo mo moooooo mo mooo mooo, moo mo mooo moo moo

make a convenient closet of your watch-coat.
mooo m mooooooooo mooooo mo mooo moooo-mooo.




Concerning all this, it is much to be deplored that the mast-heads of a
Mooooooooo moo mooo, mo mo mooo mo mo mooooooo mooo moo mooo-moooo mo m

southern whale ship are unprovided with those enviable little tents
mooooooo moooo mooo moo mooooooooo mooo moooo mooooooo mooooo moooo

or pulpits, called CROW'S-NESTS, in which the look-outs of a Greenland
mo moooooo, mooooo MOOO'M-MOOOO, mo moooo moo mooo-mooo mo m Moooooooo

whaler are protected from the inclement weather of the frozen seas. In
mooooo moo moooooooo mooo moo moooooooo moooooo mo moo mooooo mooo. Mo

the fireside narrative of Captain Sleet, entitled "A Voyage among the
moo mooooooo moooooooo mo Moooooo Moooo, mooooooo "M Mooooo moooo moo

Icebergs, in quest of the Greenland Whale, and incidentally for the
Mooooooo, mo moooo mo moo Moooooooo Moooo, moo mooooooooooo moo moo

re-discovery of the Lost Icelandic Colonies of Old Greenland;" in
mo-moooooooo mo moo Mooo Moooooooo Mooooooo mo Moo Moooooooo;" mo

this admirable volume, all standers of mast-heads are furnished with
mooo moooooooo mooooo, moo mooooooo mo mooo-moooo moo moooooooo mooo

a charmingly circumstantial account of the then recently invented
m mooooooooo mooooooooooooo moooooo mo moo mooo mooooooo mooooooo

CROW'S-NEST of the Glacier, which was the name of Captain Sleet's good
MOOO'M-MOOO mo moo Moooooo, moooo moo moo mooo mo Moooooo Moooo'm mooo

craft. He called it the SLEET'S CROW'S-NEST, in honour of himself; he
moooo. Mo mooooo mo moo MOOOO'M MOOO'M-MOOO, mo mooooo mo moooooo; mo

being the original inventor and patentee, and free from all ridiculous
moooo moo mooooooo mooooooo moo mooooooo, moo mooo mooo moo mooooooooo

false delicacy, and holding that if we call our own children after our
moooo mooooooo, moo moooooo mooo mo mo mooo moo moo mooooooo moooo moo

own names (we fathers being the original inventors and patentees), so
moo moooo (mo moooooo moooo moo mooooooo moooooooo moo moooooooo), mo

likewise should we denominate after ourselves any other apparatus we
mooooooo mooooo mo mooooooooo moooo moooooooo moo moooo moooooooo mo

may beget. In shape, the Sleet's crow's-nest is something like a large
moo moooo. Mo moooo, moo Moooo'm mooo'm-mooo mo moooooooo mooo m moooo

tierce or pipe; it is open above, however, where it is furnished with
mooooo mo mooo; mo mo mooo moooo, moooooo, moooo mo mo moooooooo mooo

a movable side-screen to keep to windward of your head in a hard gale.
m moooooo mooo-mooooo mo mooo mo mooooooo mo mooo mooo mo m mooo mooo.

Being fixed on the summit of the mast, you ascend into it through a
Moooo moooo mo moo mooooo mo moo mooo, moo mooooo mooo mo moooooo m

little trap-hatch in the bottom. On the after side, or side next the
mooooo mooo-moooo mo moo mooooo. Mo moo moooo mooo, mo mooo mooo moo

stern of the ship, is a comfortable seat, with a locker underneath for
moooo mo moo mooo, mo m moooooooooo mooo, mooo m mooooo mooooooooo moo

umbrellas, comforters, and coats. In front is a leather rack, in which
moooooooo, mooooooooo, moo moooo. Mo moooo mo m moooooo mooo, mo moooo

to keep your speaking trumpet, pipe, telescope, and other nautical
mo mooo mooo mooooooo moooooo, mooo, moooooooo, moo moooo mooooooo

conveniences. When Captain Sleet in person stood his mast-head in this
mooooooooooo. Mooo Moooooo Moooo mo mooooo moooo moo mooo-mooo mo mooo

crow's-nest of his, he tells us that he always had a rifle with him
mooo'm-mooo mo moo, mo moooo mo mooo mo mooooo moo m moooo mooo moo

(also fixed in the rack), together with a powder flask and shot, for
(mooo moooo mo moo mooo), mooooooo mooo m mooooo moooo moo mooo, moo

the purpose of popping off the stray narwhales, or vagrant sea unicorns
moo moooooo mo moooooo moo moo moooo moooooooo, mo moooooo moo mooooooo

infesting those waters; for you cannot successfully shoot at them from
moooooooo moooo mooooo; moo moo mooooo mooooooooooo moooo mo mooo mooo

the deck owing to the resistance of the water, but to shoot down upon
moo mooo moooo mo moo mooooooooo mo moo moooo, moo mo moooo mooo mooo

them is a very different thing. Now, it was plainly a labor of love
mooo mo m mooo moooooooo moooo. Moo, mo moo moooooo m moooo mo mooo

for Captain Sleet to describe, as he does, all the little detailed
moo Moooooo Moooo mo mooooooo, mo mo mooo, moo moo mooooo mooooooo

conveniences of his crow's-nest; but though he so enlarges upon many
mooooooooooo mo moo mooo'm-mooo; moo mooooo mo mo mooooooo mooo mooo

of these, and though he treats us to a very scientific account of his
mo moooo, moo mooooo mo mooooo mo mo m mooo mooooooooo moooooo mo moo

experiments in this crow's-nest, with a small compass he kept there for
moooooooooo mo mooo mooo'm-mooo, mooo m moooo moooooo mo mooo moooo moo

the purpose of counteracting the errors resulting from what is called
moo moooooo mo moooooooooooo moo mooooo moooooooo mooo mooo mo mooooo

the "local attraction" of all binnacle magnets; an error ascribable to
moo "moooo mooooooooo" mo moo mooooooo moooooo; mo moooo mooooooooo mo

the horizontal vicinity of the iron in the ship's planks, and in the
moo mooooooooo mooooooo mo moo mooo mo moo mooo'm mooooo, moo mo moo

Glacier's case, perhaps, to there having been so many broken-down
Moooooo'm mooo, moooooo, mo moooo mooooo mooo mo mooo mooooo-mooo

blacksmiths among her crew; I say, that though the Captain is very
moooooooooo moooo moo mooo; M moo, mooo mooooo moo Moooooo mo mooo

discreet and scientific here, yet, for all his learned "binnacle
mooooooo moo mooooooooo mooo, moo, moo moo moo moooooo "mooooooo

deviations," "azimuth compass observations," and "approximate errors,"
mooooooooo," "moooooo moooooo mooooooooooo," moo "moooooooooo mooooo,"

he knows very well, Captain Sleet, that he was not so much immersed
mo moooo mooo mooo, Moooooo Moooo, mooo mo moo moo mo mooo mooooooo

in those profound magnetic meditations, as to fail being attracted
mo moooo mooooooo mooooooo moooooooooo, mo mo mooo moooo moooooooo

occasionally towards that well replenished little case-bottle, so nicely
mooooooooooo moooooo mooo mooo moooooooooo mooooo mooo-mooooo, mo mooooo

tucked in on one side of his crow's nest, within easy reach of his hand.
mooooo mo mo moo mooo mo moo mooo'm mooo, mooooo mooo moooo mo moo mooo.

Though, upon the whole, I greatly admire and even love the brave, the
Mooooo, mooo moo moooo, M moooooo mooooo moo mooo mooo moo moooo, moo

honest, and learned Captain; yet I take it very ill of him that he
mooooo, moo moooooo Moooooo; moo M mooo mo mooo moo mo moo mooo mo

should so utterly ignore that case-bottle, seeing what a faithful friend
mooooo mo moooooo mooooo mooo mooo-mooooo, mooooo mooo m mooooooo mooooo

and comforter it must have been, while with mittened fingers and hooded
moo moooooooo mo mooo mooo mooo, moooo mooo mooooooo moooooo moo mooooo

head he was studying the mathematics aloft there in that bird's nest
mooo mo moo mooooooo moo moooooooooo moooo moooo mo mooo mooo'm mooo

within three or four perches of the pole.
mooooo moooo mo mooo moooooo mo moo mooo.




But if we Southern whale-fishers are not so snugly housed aloft as
Moo mo mo Mooooooo moooo-moooooo moo moo mo mooooo mooooo moooo mo

Captain Sleet and his Greenlandmen were; yet that disadvantage is
Moooooo Moooo moo moo Mooooooooooo mooo; moo mooo mooooooooooo mo

greatly counter-balanced by the widely contrasting serenity of those
moooooo moooooo-mooooooo mo moo mooooo moooooooooo mooooooo mo moooo

seductive seas in which we South fishers mostly float. For one, I used
moooooooo mooo mo moooo mo Moooo moooooo mooooo moooo. Moo moo, M mooo

to lounge up the rigging very leisurely, resting in the top to have a
mo mooooo mo moo moooooo mooo moooooooo, moooooo mo moo moo mo mooo m

chat with Queequeg, or any one else off duty whom I might find there;
mooo mooo Mooooooo, mo moo moo mooo moo mooo mooo M moooo mooo moooo;

then ascending a little way further, and throwing a lazy leg over the
mooo moooooooo m mooooo moo moooooo, moo mooooooo m mooo moo mooo moo

top-sail yard, take a preliminary view of the watery pastures, and so at
moo-mooo mooo, mooo m moooooooooo mooo mo moo mooooo mooooooo, moo mo mo

last mount to my ultimate destination.
mooo moooo mo mo mooooooo moooooooooo.




Let me make a clean breast of it here, and frankly admit that I kept but
Moo mo mooo m moooo mooooo mo mo mooo, moo moooooo moooo mooo M mooo moo

sorry guard. With the problem of the universe revolving in me, how
moooo moooo. Mooo moo moooooo mo moo mooooooo moooooooo mo mo, moo

could I--being left completely to myself at such a thought-engendering
moooo M--moooo mooo mooooooooo mo mooooo mo mooo m moooooo-moooooooooo

altitude--how could I but lightly hold my obligations to observe all
mooooooo--moo moooo M moo moooooo mooo mo moooooooooo mo moooooo moo

whale-ships' standing orders, "Keep your weather eye open, and sing out
moooo-moooo' mooooooo mooooo, "Mooo mooo moooooo moo mooo, moo mooo moo

every time."
moooo mooo."




And let me in this place movingly admonish you, ye ship-owners of
Moo moo mo mo mooo moooo mooooooo mooooooo moo, mo mooo-mooooo mo

Nantucket! Beware of enlisting in your vigilant fisheries any lad with
Moooooooo! Mooooo mo moooooooo mo mooo mooooooo moooooooo moo moo mooo

lean brow and hollow eye; given to unseasonable meditativeness; and who
mooo mooo moo mooooo moo; moooo mo mooooooooooo mooooooooooooo; moo moo

offers to ship with the Phaedon instead of Bowditch in his head. Beware
mooooo mo mooo mooo moo Moooooo moooooo mo Mooooooo mo moo mooo. Mooooo

of such an one, I say; your whales must be seen before they can be
mo mooo mo moo, M moo; mooo mooooo mooo mo mooo mooooo mooo moo mo

killed; and this sunken-eyed young Platonist will tow you ten wakes
mooooo; moo mooo mooooo-mooo moooo Moooooooo mooo moo moo moo moooo

round the world, and never make you one pint of sperm the richer. Nor
moooo moo moooo, moo moooo mooo moo moo mooo mo moooo moo mooooo. Moo

are these monitions at all unneeded. For nowadays, the whale-fishery
moo moooo moooooooo mo moo mooooooo. Moo mooooooo, moo moooo-moooooo

furnishes an asylum for many romantic, melancholy, and absent-minded
moooooooo mo mooooo moo mooo mooooooo, mooooooooo, moo mooooo-mooooo

young men, disgusted with the carking cares of earth, and seeking
moooo moo, moooooooo mooo moo moooooo moooo mo moooo, moo moooooo

sentiment in tar and blubber. Childe Harold not unfrequently perches
moooooooo mo moo moo moooooo. Mooooo Mooooo moo mooooooooooo moooooo

himself upon the mast-head of some luckless disappointed whale-ship, and
moooooo mooo moo mooo-mooo mo mooo mooooooo mooooooooooo moooo-mooo, moo

in moody phrase ejaculates:--
mo moooo mooooo mooooooooo:--




"Roll on, thou deep and dark blue ocean, roll! Ten thousand
"Mooo mo, mooo mooo moo mooo mooo moooo, mooo! Moo mooooooo

blubber-hunters sweep over thee in vain."
moooooo-moooooo moooo mooo mooo mo mooo."




Very often do the captains of such ships take those absent-minded
Mooo moooo mo moo mooooooo mo mooo moooo mooo moooo mooooo-mooooo

young philosophers to task, upbraiding them with not feeling sufficient
moooo mooooooooooo mo mooo, mooooooooo mooo mooo moo moooooo mooooooooo

"interest" in the voyage; half-hinting that they are so hopelessly lost
"mooooooo" mo moo mooooo; mooo-moooooo mooo mooo moo mo mooooooooo mooo

to all honourable ambition, as that in their secret souls they would
mo moo mooooooooo mooooooo, mo mooo mo moooo mooooo moooo mooo moooo

rather not see whales than otherwise. But all in vain; those young
mooooo moo moo mooooo mooo moooooooo. Moo moo mo mooo; moooo moooo

Platonists have a notion that their vision is imperfect; they are
Mooooooooo mooo m mooooo mooo moooo mooooo mo moooooooo; mooo moo

short-sighted; what use, then, to strain the visual nerve? They have
moooo-moooooo; mooo moo, mooo, mo mooooo moo mooooo moooo? Mooo mooo

left their opera-glasses at home.
mooo moooo moooo-moooooo mo mooo.




"Why, thou monkey," said a harpooneer to one of these lads, "we've been
"Moo, mooo mooooo," mooo m mooooooooo mo moo mo moooo mooo, "mo'mo mooo

cruising now hard upon three years, and thou hast not raised a whale
mooooooo moo mooo mooo moooo moooo, moo mooo mooo moo mooooo m moooo

yet. Whales are scarce as hen's teeth whenever thou art up here."
moo. Mooooo moo mooooo mo moo'm moooo mooooooo mooo moo mo mooo."

Perhaps they were; or perhaps there might have been shoals of them in
Moooooo mooo mooo; mo moooooo moooo moooo mooo mooo mooooo mo mooo mo

the far horizon; but lulled into such an opium-like listlessness of
moo moo moooooo; moo mooooo mooo mooo mo moooo-mooo mooooooooooo mo

vacant, unconscious reverie is this absent-minded youth by the blending
mooooo, moooooooooo moooooo mo mooo mooooo-mooooo moooo mo moo mooooooo

cadence of waves with thoughts, that at last he loses his identity;
moooooo mo moooo mooo mooooooo, mooo mo mooo mo moooo moo mooooooo;

takes the mystic ocean at his feet for the visible image of that deep,
moooo moo mooooo moooo mo moo mooo moo moo moooooo moooo mo mooo mooo,

blue, bottomless soul, pervading mankind and nature; and every
mooo, mooooooooo mooo, moooooooo moooooo moo mooooo; moo moooo

strange, half-seen, gliding, beautiful thing that eludes him; every
moooooo, mooo-mooo, moooooo, moooooooo moooo mooo mooooo moo; moooo

dimly-discovered, uprising fin of some undiscernible form, seems to him
moooo-mooooooooo, mooooooo moo mo mooo moooooooooooo mooo, moooo mo moo

the embodiment of those elusive thoughts that only people the soul by
moo mooooooooo mo moooo moooooo mooooooo mooo mooo mooooo moo mooo mo

continually flitting through it. In this enchanted mood, thy spirit ebbs
moooooooooo mooooooo moooooo mo. Mo mooo moooooooo mooo, moo mooooo mooo

away to whence it came; becomes diffused through time and space; like
mooo mo mooooo mo mooo; moooooo mooooooo moooooo mooo moo moooo; mooo

Crammer's sprinkled Pantheistic ashes, forming at last a part of every
Moooooo'm moooooooo Moooooooooo moooo, moooooo mo mooo m mooo mo moooo

shore the round globe over.
moooo moo moooo moooo mooo.




There is no life in thee, now, except that rocking life imparted by a
Moooo mo mo mooo mo mooo, moo, mooooo mooo moooooo mooo mooooooo mo m

gently rolling ship; by her, borrowed from the sea; by the sea, from
mooooo moooooo mooo; mo moo, mooooooo mooo moo moo; mo moo moo, mooo

the inscrutable tides of God. But while this sleep, this dream is on ye,
moo moooooooooo moooo mo Moo. Moo moooo mooo moooo, mooo moooo mo mo mo,

move your foot or hand an inch; slip your hold at all; and your identity
mooo mooo mooo mo mooo mo mooo; mooo mooo mooo mo moo; moo mooo mooooooo

comes back in horror. Over Descartian vortices you hover. And perhaps,
moooo mooo mo mooooo. Mooo Mooooooooo mooooooo moo moooo. Moo moooooo,

at mid-day, in the fairest weather, with one half-throttled shriek you
mo moo-moo, mo moo moooooo moooooo, mooo moo mooo-moooooooo mooooo moo

drop through that transparent air into the summer sea, no more to rise
mooo moooooo mooo moooooooooo moo mooo moo mooooo moo, mo mooo mo mooo

for ever. Heed it well, ye Pantheists!
moo mooo. Mooo mo mooo, mo Mooooooooo!










CHAPTER 36. The Quarter-Deck.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Moooooo-Mooo.







(ENTER AHAB: THEN, ALL)
(MOOOO MOOO: MOOO, MOO)







It was not a great while after the affair of the pipe, that one
Mo moo moo m moooo moooo moooo moo mooooo mo moo mooo, mooo moo

morning shortly after breakfast, Ahab, as was his wont, ascended the
moooooo moooooo moooo moooooooo, Mooo, mo moo moo mooo, mooooooo moo

cabin-gangway to the deck. There most sea-captains usually walk at that
moooo-moooooo mo moo mooo. Moooo mooo moo-mooooooo moooooo mooo mo mooo

hour, as country gentlemen, after the same meal, take a few turns in the
mooo, mo moooooo moooooooo, moooo moo mooo mooo, mooo m moo moooo mo moo

garden.
mooooo.




Soon his steady, ivory stride was heard, as to and fro he paced his old
Mooo moo mooooo, moooo mooooo moo moooo, mo mo moo moo mo moooo moo moo

rounds, upon planks so familiar to his tread, that they were all over
mooooo, mooo mooooo mo mooooooo mo moo moooo, mooo mooo mooo moo mooo

dented, like geological stones, with the peculiar mark of his walk. Did
mooooo, mooo mooooooooo mooooo, mooo moo mooooooo mooo mo moo mooo. Moo

you fixedly gaze, too, upon that ribbed and dented brow; there also,
moo moooooo mooo, moo, mooo mooo mooooo moo mooooo mooo; moooo mooo,

you would see still stranger foot-prints--the foot-prints of his one
moo moooo moo moooo mooooooo mooo-mooooo--moo mooo-mooooo mo moo moo

unsleeping, ever-pacing thought.
mooooooooo, mooo-mooooo moooooo.




But on the occasion in question, those dents looked deeper, even as
Moo mo moo mooooooo mo mooooooo, moooo moooo mooooo mooooo, mooo mo

his nervous step that morning left a deeper mark. And, so full of his
moo moooooo mooo mooo moooooo mooo m mooooo mooo. Moo, mo mooo mo moo

thought was Ahab, that at every uniform turn that he made, now at the
moooooo moo Mooo, mooo mo moooo moooooo mooo mooo mo mooo, moo mo moo

main-mast and now at the binnacle, you could almost see that thought
mooo-mooo moo moo mo moo mooooooo, moo moooo mooooo moo mooo moooooo

turn in him as he turned, and pace in him as he paced; so completely
mooo mo moo mo mo mooooo, moo mooo mo moo mo mo moooo; mo mooooooooo

possessing him, indeed, that it all but seemed the inward mould of every
mooooooooo moo, mooooo, mooo mo moo moo mooooo moo mooooo moooo mo moooo

outer movement.
moooo mooooooo.




"D'ye mark him, Flask?" whispered Stubb; "the chick that's in him pecks
"M'mo mooo moo, Moooo?" moooooooo Moooo; "moo moooo mooo'm mo moo moooo

the shell. 'Twill soon be out."
moo moooo. 'Moooo mooo mo moo."




The hours wore on;--Ahab now shut up within his cabin; anon, pacing the
Moo moooo mooo mo;--Mooo moo mooo mo mooooo moo moooo; mooo, mooooo moo

deck, with the same intense bigotry of purpose in his aspect.
mooo, mooo moo mooo moooooo moooooo mo moooooo mo moo mooooo.




It drew near the close of day. Suddenly he came to a halt by the
Mo mooo mooo moo moooo mo moo. Mooooooo mo mooo mo m mooo mo moo

bulwarks, and inserting his bone leg into the auger-hole there, and with
mooooooo, moo moooooooo moo mooo moo mooo moo moooo-mooo moooo, moo mooo

one hand grasping a shroud, he ordered Starbuck to send everybody aft.
moo mooo mooooooo m mooooo, mo moooooo Mooooooo mo mooo moooooooo moo.




"Sir!" said the mate, astonished at an order seldom or never given on
"Moo!" mooo moo mooo, mooooooooo mo mo moooo mooooo mo moooo moooo mo

ship-board except in some extraordinary case.
mooo-moooo mooooo mo mooo moooooooooooo mooo.




"Send everybody aft," repeated Ahab. "Mast-heads, there! come down!"
"Mooo moooooooo moo," mooooooo Mooo. "Mooo-moooo, moooo! mooo mooo!"




When the entire ship's company were assembled, and with curious and not
Mooo moo mooooo mooo'm moooooo mooo moooooooo, moo mooo moooooo moo moo

wholly unapprehensive faces, were eyeing him, for he looked not unlike
mooooo mooooooooooooo moooo, mooo mooooo moo, moo mo mooooo moo mooooo

the weather horizon when a storm is coming up, Ahab, after rapidly
moo moooooo moooooo mooo m moooo mo mooooo mo, Mooo, moooo moooooo

glancing over the bulwarks, and then darting his eyes among the crew,
mooooooo mooo moo mooooooo, moo mooo moooooo moo mooo moooo moo mooo,

started from his standpoint; and as though not a soul were nigh him
moooooo mooo moo mooooooooo; moo mo mooooo moo m mooo mooo mooo moo

resumed his heavy turns upon the deck. With bent head and half-slouched
moooooo moo moooo moooo mooo moo mooo. Mooo mooo mooo moo mooo-mooooooo

hat he continued to pace, unmindful of the wondering whispering among
moo mo moooooooo mo mooo, moooooooo mo moo moooooooo mooooooooo moooo

the men; till Stubb cautiously whispered to Flask, that Ahab must have
moo moo; mooo Moooo mooooooooo moooooooo mo Moooo, mooo Mooo mooo mooo

summoned them there for the purpose of witnessing a pedestrian feat. But
mooooooo mooo moooo moo moo moooooo mo mooooooooo m mooooooooo mooo. Moo

this did not last long. Vehemently pausing, he cried:--
mooo moo moo mooo mooo. Mooooooooo moooooo, mo moooo:--




"What do ye do when ye see a whale, men?"
"Mooo mo mo mo mooo mo moo m moooo, moo?"




"Sing out for him!" was the impulsive rejoinder from a score of clubbed
"Mooo moo moo moo!" moo moo moooooooo moooooooo mooo m moooo mo moooooo

voices.
mooooo.




"Good!" cried Ahab, with a wild approval in his tones; observing the
"Mooo!" moooo Mooo, mooo m mooo mooooooo mo moo moooo; moooooooo moo

hearty animation into which his unexpected question had so magnetically
mooooo moooooooo mooo moooo moo mooooooooo mooooooo moo mo mooooooooooo

thrown them.
mooooo mooo.




"And what do ye next, men?"
"Moo mooo mo mo mooo, moo?"




"Lower away, and after him!"
"Moooo mooo, moo moooo moo!"




"And what tune is it ye pull to, men?"
"Moo mooo mooo mo mo mo mooo mo, moo?"




"A dead whale or a stove boat!"
"M mooo moooo mo m moooo mooo!"




More and more strangely and fiercely glad and approving, grew the
Mooo moo mooo moooooooo moo mooooooo mooo moo moooooooo, mooo moo

countenance of the old man at every shout; while the mariners began
moooooooooo mo moo moo moo mo moooo moooo; moooo moo mooooooo moooo

to gaze curiously at each other, as if marvelling how it was that they
mo mooo moooooooo mo mooo moooo, mo mo mooooooooo moo mo moo mooo mooo

themselves became so excited at such seemingly purposeless questions.
mooooooooo mooooo mo moooooo mo mooo moooooooo moooooooooo moooooooo.




But, they were all eagerness again, as Ahab, now half-revolving in his
Moo, mooo mooo moo moooooooo moooo, mo Mooo, moo mooo-moooooooo mo moo

pivot-hole, with one hand reaching high up a shroud, and tightly, almost
moooo-mooo, mooo moo mooo mooooooo mooo mo m mooooo, moo moooooo, mooooo

convulsively grasping it, addressed them thus:--
mooooooooooo mooooooo mo, moooooooo mooo mooo:--




"All ye mast-headers have before now heard me give orders about a white
"Moo mo mooo-moooooo mooo mooooo moo moooo mo mooo mooooo moooo m moooo

whale. Look ye! d'ye see this Spanish ounce of gold?"--holding up a
moooo. Mooo mo! m'mo moo mooo Moooooo moooo mo mooo?"--moooooo mo m

broad bright coin to the sun--"it is a sixteen dollar piece, men. D'ye
moooo mooooo mooo mo moo moo--"mo mo m moooooo mooooo moooo, moo. M'mo

see it? Mr. Starbuck, hand me yon top-maul."
moo mo? Mo. Mooooooo, mooo mo moo moo-mooo."




While the mate was getting the hammer, Ahab, without speaking, was
Moooo moo mooo moo moooooo moo mooooo, Mooo, moooooo mooooooo, moo

slowly rubbing the gold piece against the skirts of his jacket, as if
mooooo moooooo moo mooo moooo moooooo moo mooooo mo moo mooooo, mo mo

to heighten its lustre, and without using any words was meanwhile
mo mooooooo moo mooooo, moo moooooo moooo moo moooo moo moooooooo

lowly humming to himself, producing a sound so strangely muffled and
moooo moooooo mo moooooo, moooooooo m moooo mo moooooooo moooooo moo

inarticulate that it seemed the mechanical humming of the wheels of his
mooooooooooo mooo mo mooooo moo mooooooooo moooooo mo moo mooooo mo moo

vitality in him.
mooooooo mo moo.




Receiving the top-maul from Starbuck, he advanced towards the main-mast
Moooooooo moo moo-mooo mooo Mooooooo, mo mooooooo moooooo moo mooo-mooo

with the hammer uplifted in one hand, exhibiting the gold with the
mooo moo mooooo mooooooo mo moo mooo, mooooooooo moo mooo mooo moo

other, and with a high raised voice exclaiming: "Whosoever of ye
moooo, moo mooo m mooo mooooo moooo mooooooooo: "Moooooooo mo mo

raises me a white-headed whale with a wrinkled brow and a crooked jaw;
mooooo mo m moooo-mooooo moooo mooo m mooooooo mooo moo m moooooo moo;

whosoever of ye raises me that white-headed whale, with three holes
moooooooo mo mo mooooo mo mooo moooo-mooooo moooo, mooo moooo moooo

punctured in his starboard fluke--look ye, whosoever of ye raises me
moooooooo mo moo moooooooo moooo--mooo mo, moooooooo mo mo mooooo mo

that same white whale, he shall have this gold ounce, my boys!"
mooo mooo moooo moooo, mo moooo mooo mooo mooo moooo, mo mooo!"




"Huzza! huzza!" cried the seamen, as with swinging tarpaulins they
"Moooo! moooo!" moooo moo mooooo, mo mooo mooooooo mooooooooo mooo

hailed the act of nailing the gold to the mast.
mooooo moo moo mo moooooo moo mooo mo moo mooo.




"It's a white whale, I say," resumed Ahab, as he threw down the topmaul:
"Mo'm m moooo moooo, M moo," moooooo Mooo, mo mo moooo mooo moo moooooo:

"a white whale. Skin your eyes for him, men; look sharp for white water;
"m moooo moooo. Mooo mooo mooo moo moo, moo; mooo moooo moo moooo moooo;

if ye see but a bubble, sing out."
mo mo moo moo m mooooo, mooo moo."




All this while Tashtego, Daggoo, and Queequeg had looked on with even
Moo mooo moooo Mooooooo, Mooooo, moo Mooooooo moo mooooo mo mooo mooo

more intense interest and surprise than the rest, and at the mention
mooo moooooo mooooooo moo mooooooo mooo moo mooo, moo mo moo moooooo

of the wrinkled brow and crooked jaw they had started as if each was
mo moo mooooooo mooo moo moooooo moo mooo moo moooooo mo mo mooo moo

separately touched by some specific recollection.
mooooooooo moooooo mo mooo mooooooo mooooooooooo.




"Captain Ahab," said Tashtego, "that white whale must be the same that
"Moooooo Mooo," mooo Mooooooo, "mooo moooo moooo mooo mo moo mooo mooo

some call Moby Dick."
mooo mooo Mooo Mooo."




"Moby Dick?" shouted Ahab. "Do ye know the white whale then, Tash?"
"Mooo Mooo?" moooooo Mooo. "Mo mo mooo moo moooo moooo mooo, Mooo?"




"Does he fan-tail a little curious, sir, before he goes down?" said the
"Mooo mo moo-mooo m mooooo moooooo, moo, mooooo mo mooo mooo?" mooo moo

Gay-Header deliberately.
Moo-Mooooo mooooooooooo.




"And has he a curious spout, too," said Daggoo, "very bushy, even for a
"Moo moo mo m moooooo moooo, moo," mooo Mooooo, "mooo moooo, mooo moo m

parmacetty, and mighty quick, Captain Ahab?"
mooooooooo, moo mooooo moooo, Moooooo Mooo?"




"And he have one, two, three--oh! good many iron in him hide, too,
"Moo mo mooo moo, moo, moooo--mo! mooo mooo mooo mo moo mooo, moo,

Captain," cried Queequeg disjointedly, "all twiske-tee be-twisk, like
Moooooo," moooo Mooooooo mooooooooooo, "moo mooooo-moo mo-moooo, mooo

him--him--" faltering hard for a word, and screwing his hand round and
moo--moo--" moooooooo mooo moo m mooo, moo mooooooo moo mooo moooo moo

round as though uncorking a bottle--"like him--him--"
moooo mo mooooo moooooooo m mooooo--"mooo moo--moo--"




"Corkscrew!" cried Ahab, "aye, Queequeg, the harpoons lie all twisted
"Moooooooo!" moooo Mooo, "moo, Mooooooo, moo mooooooo moo moo moooooo

and wrenched in him; aye, Daggoo, his spout is a big one, like a whole
moo mooooooo mo moo; moo, Mooooo, moo moooo mo m moo moo, mooo m moooo

shock of wheat, and white as a pile of our Nantucket wool after the
moooo mo moooo, moo moooo mo m mooo mo moo Moooooooo mooo moooo moo

great annual sheep-shearing; aye, Tashtego, and he fan-tails like a
moooo mooooo moooo-mooooooo; moo, Mooooooo, moo mo moo-moooo mooo m

split jib in a squall. Death and devils! men, it is Moby Dick ye have
moooo moo mo m mooooo. Moooo moo mooooo! moo, mo mo Mooo Mooo mo mooo

seen--Moby Dick--Moby Dick!"
mooo--Mooo Mooo--Mooo Mooo!"




"Captain Ahab," said Starbuck, who, with Stubb and Flask, had thus far
"Moooooo Mooo," mooo Mooooooo, moo, mooo Moooo moo Moooo, moo mooo moo

been eyeing his superior with increasing surprise, but at last seemed
mooo mooooo moo mooooooo mooo mooooooooo mooooooo, moo mo mooo mooooo

struck with a thought which somewhat explained all the wonder. "Captain
mooooo mooo m moooooo moooo mooooooo moooooooo moo moo mooooo. "Moooooo

Ahab, I have heard of Moby Dick--but it was not Moby Dick that took off
Mooo, M mooo moooo mo Mooo Mooo--moo mo moo moo Mooo Mooo mooo mooo moo

thy leg?"
moo moo?"




"Who told thee that?" cried Ahab; then pausing, "Aye, Starbuck; aye, my
"Moo mooo mooo mooo?" moooo Mooo; mooo moooooo, "Moo, Mooooooo; moo, mo

hearties all round; it was Moby Dick that dismasted me; Moby Dick that
mooooooo moo moooo; mo moo Mooo Mooo mooo moooooooo mo; Mooo Mooo mooo

brought me to this dead stump I stand on now. Aye, aye," he shouted with
moooooo mo mo mooo mooo moooo M moooo mo moo. Moo, moo," mo moooooo mooo

a terrific, loud, animal sob, like that of a heart-stricken moose;
m mooooooo, mooo, mooooo moo, mooo mooo mo m moooo-mooooooo moooo;

"Aye, aye! it was that accursed white whale that razeed me; made a poor
"Moo, moo! mo moo mooo mooooooo moooo moooo mooo mooooo mo; mooo m mooo

pegging lubber of me for ever and a day!" Then tossing both arms, with
moooooo mooooo mo mo moo mooo moo m moo!" Mooo moooooo mooo mooo, mooo

measureless imprecations he shouted out: "Aye, aye! and I'll chase him
moooooooooo mooooooooooo mo moooooo moo: "Moo, moo! moo M'mo moooo moo

round Good Hope, and round the Horn, and round the Norway Maelstrom, and
moooo Mooo Mooo, moo moooo moo Mooo, moo moooo moo Mooooo Moooooooo, moo

round perdition's flames before I give him up. And this is what ye have
moooo moooooooo'm mooooo mooooo M mooo moo mo. Moo mooo mo mooo mo mooo

shipped for, men! to chase that white whale on both sides of land, and
moooooo moo, moo! mo moooo mooo moooo moooo mo mooo moooo mo mooo, moo

over all sides of earth, till he spouts black blood and rolls fin out.
mooo moo moooo mo moooo, mooo mo mooooo moooo moooo moo moooo moo moo.

What say ye, men, will ye splice hands on it, now? I think ye do look
Mooo moo mo, moo, mooo mo mooooo moooo mo mo, moo? M moooo mo mo mooo

brave."
moooo."




"Aye, aye!" shouted the harpooneers and seamen, running closer to the
"Moo, moo!" moooooo moo moooooooooo moo mooooo, moooooo mooooo mo moo

excited old man: "A sharp eye for the white whale; a sharp lance for
moooooo moo moo: "M moooo moo moo moo moooo moooo; m moooo moooo moo

Moby Dick!"
Mooo Mooo!"




"God bless ye," he seemed to half sob and half shout. "God bless ye,
"Moo moooo mo," mo mooooo mo mooo moo moo mooo moooo. "Moo moooo mo,

men. Steward! go draw the great measure of grog. But what's this long
moo. Moooooo! mo mooo moo moooo moooooo mo mooo. Moo mooo'm mooo mooo

face about, Mr. Starbuck; wilt thou not chase the white whale? art not
mooo moooo, Mo. Mooooooo; mooo mooo moo moooo moo moooo moooo? moo moo

game for Moby Dick?"
mooo moo Mooo Mooo?"




"I am game for his crooked jaw, and for the jaws of Death too, Captain
"M mo mooo moo moo moooooo moo, moo moo moo mooo mo Moooo moo, Moooooo

Ahab, if it fairly comes in the way of the business we follow; but I
Mooo, mo mo mooooo moooo mo moo moo mo moo mooooooo mo mooooo; moo M

came here to hunt whales, not my commander's vengeance. How many barrels
mooo mooo mo mooo mooooo, moo mo moooooooo'm moooooooo. Moo mooo moooooo

will thy vengeance yield thee even if thou gettest it, Captain Ahab? it
mooo moo moooooooo moooo mooo mooo mo mooo moooooo mo, Moooooo Mooo? mo

will not fetch thee much in our Nantucket market."
mooo moo moooo mooo mooo mo moo Moooooooo mooooo."




"Nantucket market! Hoot! But come closer, Starbuck; thou requirest
"Moooooooo mooooo! Mooo! Moo mooo mooooo, Mooooooo; mooo moooooooo

a little lower layer. If money's to be the measurer, man, and the
m mooooo moooo moooo. Mo moooo'm mo mo moo mooooooo, moo, moo moo

accountants have computed their great counting-house the globe, by
moooooooooo mooo mooooooo moooo moooo mooooooo-moooo moo moooo, mo

girdling it with guineas, one to every three parts of an inch; then, let
mooooooo mo mooo moooooo, moo mo moooo moooo moooo mo mo mooo; mooo, moo

me tell thee, that my vengeance will fetch a great premium HERE!"
mo mooo mooo, mooo mo moooooooo mooo moooo m moooo moooooo MOOO!"




"He smites his chest," whispered Stubb, "what's that for? methinks it
"Mo mooooo moo moooo," moooooooo Moooo, "mooo'm mooo moo? mooooooo mo

rings most vast, but hollow."
moooo mooo mooo, moo mooooo."




"Vengeance on a dumb brute!" cried Starbuck, "that simply smote thee
"Moooooooo mo m mooo moooo!" moooo Mooooooo, "mooo mooooo moooo mooo

from blindest instinct! Madness! To be enraged with a dumb thing,
mooo mooooooo mooooooo! Moooooo! Mo mo moooooo mooo m mooo moooo,

Captain Ahab, seems blasphemous."
Moooooo Mooo, moooo moooooooooo."




"Hark ye yet again--the little lower layer. All visible objects, man,
"Mooo mo moo moooo--moo mooooo moooo moooo. Moo moooooo moooooo, moo,

are but as pasteboard masks. But in each event--in the living act, the
moo moo mo mooooooooo moooo. Moo mo mooo moooo--mo moo mooooo moo, moo

undoubted deed--there, some unknown but still reasoning thing puts forth
moooooooo mooo--moooo, mooo moooooo moo moooo moooooooo moooo mooo moooo

the mouldings of its features from behind the unreasoning mask. If man
moo moooooooo mo moo mooooooo mooo mooooo moo moooooooooo mooo. Mo moo

will strike, strike through the mask! How can the prisoner reach outside
mooo mooooo, mooooo moooooo moo mooo! Moo moo moo mooooooo moooo moooooo

except by thrusting through the wall? To me, the white whale is that
mooooo mo moooooooo moooooo moo mooo? Mo mo, moo moooo moooo mo mooo

wall, shoved near to me. Sometimes I think there's naught beyond. But
mooo, mooooo mooo mo mo. Moooooooo M moooo moooo'm mooooo mooooo. Moo

'tis enough. He tasks me; he heaps me; I see in him outrageous strength,
'moo mooooo. Mo moooo mo; mo moooo mo; M moo mo moo mooooooooo mooooooo,

with an inscrutable malice sinewing it. That inscrutable thing is
mooo mo moooooooooo mooooo mooooooo mo. Mooo moooooooooo moooo mo

chiefly what I hate; and be the white whale agent, or be the white whale
moooooo mooo M mooo; moo mo moo moooo moooo moooo, mo mo moo moooo moooo

principal, I will wreak that hate upon him. Talk not to me of blasphemy,
moooooooo, M mooo moooo mooo mooo mooo moo. Mooo moo mo mo mo moooooooo,

man; I'd strike the sun if it insulted me. For could the sun do that,
moo; M'm mooooo moo moo mo mo mooooooo mo. Moo moooo moo moo mo mooo,

then could I do the other; since there is ever a sort of fair play
mooo moooo M mo moo moooo; moooo moooo mo mooo m mooo mo mooo mooo

herein, jealousy presiding over all creations. But not my master, man,
mooooo, mooooooo moooooooo mooo moo moooooooo. Moo moo mo mooooo, moo,

is even that fair play. Who's over me? Truth hath no confines. Take off
mo mooo mooo mooo mooo. Moo'm mooo mo? Moooo mooo mo mooooooo. Mooo moo

thine eye! more intolerable than fiends' glarings is a doltish
moooo moo! mooo moooooooooo mooo mooooo' mooooooo mo m moooooo

stare! So, so; thou reddenest and palest; my heat has melted thee to
moooo! Mo, mo; mooo moooooooo moo mooooo; mo mooo moo mooooo mooo mo

anger-glow. But look ye, Starbuck, what is said in heat, that thing
moooo-mooo. Moo mooo mo, Mooooooo, mooo mo mooo mo mooo, mooo moooo

unsays itself. There are men from whom warm words are small indignity. I
mooooo mooooo. Moooo moo moo mooo mooo mooo moooo moo moooo moooooooo. M

meant not to incense thee. Let it go. Look! see yonder Turkish cheeks of
moooo moo mo moooooo mooo. Moo mo mo. Mooo! moo mooooo Moooooo mooooo mo

spotted tawn--living, breathing pictures painted by the sun. The Pagan
moooooo mooo--mooooo, moooooooo mooooooo moooooo mo moo moo. Moo Moooo

leopards--the unrecking and unworshipping things, that live; and seek,
mooooooo--moo moooooooo moo moooooooooooo mooooo, mooo mooo; moo mooo,

and give no reasons for the torrid life they feel! The crew, man, the
moo mooo mo moooooo moo moo mooooo mooo mooo mooo! Moo mooo, moo, moo

crew! Are they not one and all with Ahab, in this matter of the whale?
mooo! Moo mooo moo moo moo moo mooo Mooo, mo mooo mooooo mo moo moooo?

See Stubb! he laughs! See yonder Chilian! he snorts to think of it.
Moo Moooo! mo mooooo! Moo mooooo Moooooo! mo mooooo mo moooo mo mo.

Stand up amid the general hurricane, thy one tost sapling cannot,
Moooo mo mooo moo moooooo moooooooo, moo moo mooo moooooo mooooo,

Starbuck! And what is it? Reckon it. 'Tis but to help strike a fin; no
Mooooooo! Moo mooo mo mo? Mooooo mo. 'Moo moo mo mooo mooooo m moo; mo

wondrous feat for Starbuck. What is it more? From this one poor hunt,
mooooooo mooo moo Mooooooo. Mooo mo mo mooo? Mooo mooo moo mooo mooo,

then, the best lance out of all Nantucket, surely he will not hang back,
mooo, moo mooo moooo moo mo moo Moooooooo, mooooo mo mooo moo mooo mooo,

when every foremast-hand has clutched a whetstone? Ah! constrainings
mooo moooo mooooooo-mooo moo mooooooo m moooooooo? Mo! moooooooooooo

seize thee; I see! the billow lifts thee! Speak, but speak!--Aye, aye!
moooo mooo; M moo! moo mooooo moooo mooo! Moooo, moo moooo!--Moo, moo!

thy silence, then, THAT voices thee. (ASIDE) Something shot from my
moo moooooo, mooo, MOOO mooooo mooo. (MOOOO) Moooooooo mooo mooo mo

dilated nostrils, he has inhaled it in his lungs. Starbuck now is mine;
moooooo mooooooo, mo moo moooooo mo mo moo moooo. Mooooooo moo mo mooo;

cannot oppose me now, without rebellion."
mooooo mooooo mo moo, moooooo moooooooo."




"God keep me!--keep us all!" murmured Starbuck, lowly.
"Moo mooo mo!--mooo mo moo!" mooooooo Mooooooo, moooo.




But in his joy at the enchanted, tacit acquiescence of the mate, Ahab
Moo mo moo moo mo moo moooooooo, moooo mooooooooooo mo moo mooo, Mooo

did not hear his foreboding invocation; nor yet the low laugh from the
moo moo mooo moo mooooooooo mooooooooo; moo moo moo moo moooo mooo moo

hold; nor yet the presaging vibrations of the winds in the cordage;
mooo; moo moo moo moooooooo mooooooooo mo moo moooo mo moo moooooo;

nor yet the hollow flap of the sails against the masts, as for a moment
moo moo moo mooooo mooo mo moo moooo moooooo moo moooo, mo moo m mooooo

their hearts sank in. For again Starbuck's downcast eyes lighted up with
moooo mooooo mooo mo. Moo moooo Mooooooo'm mooooooo mooo moooooo mo mooo

the stubbornness of life; the subterranean laugh died away; the winds
moo mooooooooooo mo mooo; moo mooooooooooo moooo mooo mooo; moo moooo

blew on; the sails filled out; the ship heaved and rolled as before. Ah,
mooo mo; moo moooo mooooo moo; moo mooo mooooo moo mooooo mo mooooo. Mo,

ye admonitions and warnings! why stay ye not when ye come? But
mo moooooooooo moo mooooooo! moo mooo mo moo mooo mo mooo? Moo

rather are ye predictions than warnings, ye shadows! Yet not so much
mooooo moo mo moooooooooo mooo mooooooo, mo moooooo! Moo moo mo mooo

predictions from without, as verifications of the foregoing things
moooooooooo mooo moooooo, mo moooooooooooo mo moo moooooooo mooooo

within. For with little external to constrain us, the innermost
mooooo. Moo mooo mooooo mooooooo mo moooooooo mo, moo moooooooo

necessities in our being, these still drive us on.
moooooooooo mo moo moooo, moooo moooo moooo mo mo.




"The measure! the measure!" cried Ahab.
"Moo moooooo! moo moooooo!" moooo Mooo.




Receiving the brimming pewter, and turning to the harpooneers, he
Moooooooo moo mooooooo mooooo, moo moooooo mo moo moooooooooo, mo

ordered them to produce their weapons. Then ranging them before him near
moooooo mooo mo moooooo moooo moooooo. Mooo moooooo mooo mooooo moo mooo

the capstan, with their harpoons in their hands, while his three mates
moo moooooo, mooo moooo mooooooo mo moooo moooo, moooo moo moooo moooo

stood at his side with their lances, and the rest of the ship's company
moooo mo moo mooo mooo moooo mooooo, moo moo mooo mo moo mooo'm moooooo

formed a circle round the group; he stood for an instant searchingly
mooooo m mooooo moooo moo moooo; mo moooo moo mo moooooo moooooooooo

eyeing every man of his crew. But those wild eyes met his, as the
mooooo moooo moo mo moo mooo. Moo moooo mooo mooo moo moo, mo moo

bloodshot eyes of the prairie wolves meet the eye of their leader, ere
moooooooo mooo mo moo moooooo mooooo mooo moo moo mo moooo mooooo, moo

he rushes on at their head in the trail of the bison; but, alas! only to
mo mooooo mo mo moooo mooo mo moo moooo mo moo moooo; moo, mooo! mooo mo

fall into the hidden snare of the Indian.
mooo mooo moo mooooo moooo mo moo Mooooo.




"Drink and pass!" he cried, handing the heavy charged flagon to the
"Moooo moo mooo!" mo moooo, moooooo moo moooo moooooo mooooo mo moo

nearest seaman. "The crew alone now drink. Round with it, round! Short
moooooo mooooo. "Moo mooo moooo moo moooo. Moooo mooo mo, moooo! Moooo

draughts--long swallows, men; 'tis hot as Satan's hoof. So, so; it
mooooooo--mooo mooooooo, moo; 'moo moo mo Moooo'm mooo. Mo, mo; mo

goes round excellently. It spiralizes in ye; forks out at the
mooo moooo moooooooooo. Mo mooooooooo mo mo; moooo moo mo moo

serpent-snapping eye. Well done; almost drained. That way it went, this
moooooo-mooooooo moo. Mooo mooo; mooooo moooooo. Mooo moo mo mooo, mooo

way it comes. Hand it me--here's a hollow! Men, ye seem the years; so
moo mo moooo. Mooo mo mo--mooo'm m mooooo! Moo, mo mooo moo moooo; mo

brimming life is gulped and gone. Steward, refill!
mooooooo mooo mo mooooo moo mooo. Moooooo, mooooo!




"Attend now, my braves. I have mustered ye all round this capstan; and
"Mooooo moo, mo mooooo. M mooo mooooooo mo moo moooo mooo moooooo; moo

ye mates, flank me with your lances; and ye harpooneers, stand there
mo moooo, moooo mo mooo mooo mooooo; moo mo moooooooooo, moooo moooo

with your irons; and ye, stout mariners, ring me in, that I may in some
mooo mooo moooo; moo mo, moooo mooooooo, mooo mo mo, mooo M moo mo mooo

sort revive a noble custom of my fisherman fathers before me. O men, you
mooo mooooo m moooo mooooo mo mo moooooooo moooooo mooooo mo. M moo, moo

will yet see that--Ha! boy, come back? bad pennies come not sooner. Hand
mooo moo moo mooo--Mo! moo, mooo mooo? moo moooooo mooo moo mooooo. Mooo

it me. Why, now, this pewter had run brimming again, were't not thou St.
mo mo. Moo, moo, mooo mooooo moo moo mooooooo moooo, mooo'm moo mooo Mo.

Vitus' imp--away, thou ague!
Moooo' moo--mooo, mooo mooo!




"Advance, ye mates! Cross your lances full before me. Well done! Let
"Moooooo, mo moooo! Moooo mooo mooooo mooo mooooo mo. Mooo mooo! Moo

me touch the axis." So saying, with extended arm, he grasped the
mo moooo moo mooo." Mo mooooo, mooo mooooooo moo, mo moooooo moo

three level, radiating lances at their crossed centre; while so doing,
moooo moooo, moooooooo mooooo mo moooo moooooo mooooo; moooo mo moooo,

suddenly and nervously twitched them; meanwhile, glancing intently from
mooooooo moo moooooooo mooooooo mooo; moooooooo, mooooooo mooooooo mooo

Starbuck to Stubb; from Stubb to Flask. It seemed as though, by some
Mooooooo mo Moooo; mooo Moooo mo Moooo. Mo mooooo mo mooooo, mo mooo

nameless, interior volition, he would fain have shocked into them the
mooooooo, mooooooo mooooooo, mo moooo mooo mooo moooooo mooo mooo moo

same fiery emotion accumulated within the Leyden jar of his own magnetic
mooo moooo moooooo moooooooooo mooooo moo Mooooo moo mo moo moo mooooooo

life. The three mates quailed before his strong, sustained, and mystic
mooo. Moo moooo moooo moooooo mooooo moo mooooo, moooooooo, moo mooooo

aspect. Stubb and Flask looked sideways from him; the honest eye of
mooooo. Moooo moo Moooo mooooo mooooooo mooo moo; moo mooooo moo mo

Starbuck fell downright.
Mooooooo mooo moooooooo.




"In vain!" cried Ahab; "but, maybe, 'tis well. For did ye three but
"Mo mooo!" moooo Mooo; "moo, moooo, 'moo mooo. Moo moo mo moooo moo

once take the full-forced shock, then mine own electric thing, THAT had
mooo mooo moo mooo-mooooo moooo, mooo mooo moo mooooooo moooo, MOOO moo

perhaps expired from out me. Perchance, too, it would have dropped ye
moooooo moooooo mooo moo mo. Moooooooo, moo, mo moooo mooo moooooo mo

dead. Perchance ye need it not. Down lances! And now, ye mates, I do
mooo. Moooooooo mo mooo mo moo. Mooo mooooo! Moo moo, mo moooo, M mo

appoint ye three cupbearers to my three pagan kinsmen there--yon three
moooooo mo moooo mooooooooo mo mo moooo moooo moooooo moooo--moo moooo

most honourable gentlemen and noblemen, my valiant harpooneers. Disdain
mooo mooooooooo moooooooo moo mooooooo, mo moooooo moooooooooo. Moooooo

the task? What, when the great Pope washes the feet of beggars, using
moo mooo? Mooo, mooo moo moooo Mooo mooooo moo mooo mo moooooo, moooo

his tiara for ewer? Oh, my sweet cardinals! your own condescension, THAT
moo moooo moo mooo? Mo, mo moooo moooooooo! mooo moo moooooooooooo, MOOO

shall bend ye to it. I do not order ye; ye will it. Cut your seizings
moooo mooo mo mo mo. M mo moo moooo mo; mo mooo mo. Moo mooo mooooooo

and draw the poles, ye harpooneers!"
moo mooo moo moooo, mo moooooooooo!"




Silently obeying the order, the three harpooneers now stood with the
Mooooooo moooooo moo moooo, moo moooo moooooooooo moo moooo mooo moo

detached iron part of their harpoons, some three feet long, held, barbs
mooooooo mooo mooo mo moooo mooooooo, mooo moooo mooo mooo, mooo, moooo

up, before him.
mo, mooooo moo.




"Stab me not with that keen steel! Cant them; cant them over! know ye
"Mooo mo moo mooo mooo mooo moooo! Mooo mooo; mooo mooo mooo! mooo mo

not the goblet end? Turn up the socket! So, so; now, ye cup-bearers,
moo moo mooooo moo? Mooo mo moo mooooo! Mo, mo; moo, mo moo-moooooo,

advance. The irons! take them; hold them while I fill!" Forthwith,
moooooo. Moo moooo! mooo mooo; mooo mooo moooo M mooo!" Moooooooo,

slowly going from one officer to the other, he brimmed the harpoon
mooooo moooo mooo moo moooooo mo moo moooo, mo moooooo moo moooooo

sockets with the fiery waters from the pewter.
moooooo mooo moo moooo mooooo mooo moo mooooo.




"Now, three to three, ye stand. Commend the murderous chalices! Bestow
"Moo, moooo mo moooo, mo moooo. Moooooo moo moooooooo mooooooo! Mooooo

them, ye who are now made parties to this indissoluble league. Ha!
mooo, mo moo moo moo mooo moooooo mo mooo mooooooooooo mooooo. Mo!

Starbuck! but the deed is done! Yon ratifying sun now waits to sit upon
Mooooooo! moo moo mooo mo mooo! Moo moooooooo moo moo moooo mo moo mooo

it. Drink, ye harpooneers! drink and swear, ye men that man the deathful
mo. Moooo, mo moooooooooo! moooo moo moooo, mo moo mooo moo moo mooooooo

whaleboat's bow--Death to Moby Dick! God hunt us all, if we do not hunt
moooooooo'm moo--Moooo mo Mooo Mooo! Moo mooo mo moo, mo mo mo moo mooo

Moby Dick to his death!" The long, barbed steel goblets were lifted;
Mooo Mooo mo moo moooo!" Moo mooo, mooooo moooo moooooo mooo mooooo;

and to cries and maledictions against the white whale, the spirits were
moo mo moooo moo mooooooooooo moooooo moo moooo moooo, moo moooooo mooo

simultaneously quaffed down with a hiss. Starbuck paled, and turned, and
mooooooooooooo moooooo mooo mooo m mooo. Mooooooo moooo, moo mooooo, moo

shivered. Once more, and finally, the replenished pewter went the rounds
mooooooo. Mooo mooo, moo moooooo, moo moooooooooo mooooo mooo moo mooooo

among the frantic crew; when, waving his free hand to them, they all
moooo moo moooooo mooo; mooo, mooooo moo mooo mooo mo mooo, mooo moo

dispersed; and Ahab retired within his cabin.
moooooooo; moo Mooo moooooo mooooo moo moooo.










CHAPTER 37. Sunset.
MOOOOOO mo. Mooooo.







THE CABIN; BY THE STERN WINDOWS; AHAB SITTING ALONE, AND GAZING OUT.
MOO MOOOO; MO MOO MOOOO MOOOOOO; MOOO MOOOOOO MOOOO, MOO MOOOOO MOO.







I leave a white and turbid wake; pale waters, paler cheeks, where'er I
M moooo m moooo moo mooooo mooo; mooo mooooo, moooo mooooo, moooo'mo M

sail. The envious billows sidelong swell to whelm my track; let them;
mooo. Moo moooooo moooooo mooooooo moooo mo moooo mo moooo; moo mooo;

but first I pass.
moo moooo M mooo.




Yonder, by ever-brimming goblet's rim, the warm waves blush like wine.
Mooooo, mo mooo-mooooooo mooooo'm moo, moo mooo moooo moooo mooo mooo.

The gold brow plumbs the blue. The diver sun--slow dived from noon--goes
Moo mooo mooo mooooo moo mooo. Moo moooo moo--mooo moooo mooo mooo--mooo

down; my soul mounts up! she wearies with her endless hill. Is, then,
mooo; mo mooo mooooo mo! moo moooooo mooo moo moooooo mooo. Mo, mooo,

the crown too heavy that I wear? this Iron Crown of Lombardy. Yet is
moo moooo moo moooo mooo M mooo? mooo Mooo Moooo mo Mooooooo. Moo mo

it bright with many a gem; I the wearer, see not its far flashings; but
mo mooooo mooo mooo m moo; M moo mooooo, moo moo moo moo moooooooo; moo

darkly feel that I wear that, that dazzlingly confounds. 'Tis iron--that
mooooo mooo mooo M mooo mooo, mooo mooooooooo moooooooo. 'Moo mooo--mooo

I know--not gold. 'Tis split, too--that I feel; the jagged edge galls
M mooo--moo mooo. 'Moo moooo, moo--mooo M mooo; moo mooooo mooo moooo

me so, my brain seems to beat against the solid metal; aye, steel skull,
mo mo, mo moooo moooo mo mooo moooooo moo moooo moooo; moo, moooo moooo,

mine; the sort that needs no helmet in the most brain-battering fight!
mooo; moo mooo mooo moooo mo mooooo mo moo mooo moooo-moooooooo moooo!




Dry heat upon my brow? Oh! time was, when as the sunrise nobly spurred
Moo mooo mooo mo mooo? Mo! mooo moo, mooo mo moo moooooo moooo moooooo

me, so the sunset soothed. No more. This lovely light, it lights not me;
mo, mo moo mooooo moooooo. Mo mooo. Mooo mooooo moooo, mo mooooo moo mo;

all loveliness is anguish to me, since I can ne'er enjoy. Gifted with
moo mooooooooo mo moooooo mo mo, moooo M moo mo'mo moooo. Mooooo mooo

the high perception, I lack the low, enjoying power; damned, most subtly
moo mooo mooooooooo, M mooo moo moo, mooooooo moooo; mooooo, mooo mooooo

and most malignantly! damned in the midst of Paradise! Good night--good
moo mooo moooooooooo! mooooo mo moo moooo mo Mooooooo! Mooo moooo--mooo

night! (WAVING HIS HAND, HE MOVES FROM THE WINDOW.)
moooo! (MOOOOO MOO MOOO, MO MOOOO MOOO MOO MOOOOO.)




'Twas not so hard a task. I thought to find one stubborn, at the least;
'Mooo moo mo mooo m mooo. M moooooo mo mooo moo mooooooo, mo moo moooo;

but my one cogged circle fits into all their various wheels, and they
moo mo moo mooooo mooooo mooo mooo moo moooo moooooo mooooo, moo mooo

revolve. Or, if you will, like so many ant-hills of powder, they all
moooooo. Mo, mo moo mooo, mooo mo mooo moo-moooo mo mooooo, mooo moo

stand before me; and I their match. Oh, hard! that to fire others, the
moooo mooooo mo; moo M moooo moooo. Mo, mooo! mooo mo mooo mooooo, moo

match itself must needs be wasting! What I've dared, I've willed; and
moooo mooooo mooo moooo mo moooooo! Mooo M'mo moooo, M'mo mooooo; moo

what I've willed, I'll do! They think me mad--Starbuck does; but I'm
mooo M'mo mooooo, M'mo mo! Mooo moooo mo moo--Mooooooo mooo; moo M'm

demoniac, I am madness maddened! That wild madness that's only calm
mooooooo, M mo moooooo mooooooo! Mooo mooo moooooo mooo'm mooo mooo

to comprehend itself! The prophecy was that I should be dismembered;
mo mooooooooo mooooo! Moo mooooooo moo mooo M mooooo mo moooooooooo;

and--Aye! I lost this leg. I now prophesy that I will dismember my
moo--Moo! M mooo mooo moo. M moo mooooooo mooo M mooo moooooooo mo

dismemberer. Now, then, be the prophet and the fulfiller one. That's
moooooooooo. Moo, mooo, mo moo moooooo moo moo moooooooo moo. Mooo'm

more than ye, ye great gods, ever were. I laugh and hoot at ye, ye
mooo mooo mo, mo moooo mooo, mooo mooo. M moooo moo mooo mo mo, mo

cricket-players, ye pugilists, ye deaf Burkes and blinded Bendigoes!
moooooo-moooooo, mo moooooooo, mo mooo Mooooo moo moooooo Moooooooo!

I will not say as schoolboys do to bullies--Take some one of your own
M mooo moo moo mo mooooooooo mo mo moooooo--Mooo mooo moo mo mooo moo

size; don't pommel ME! No, ye've knocked me down, and I am up again; but
mooo; moo'm mooooo MO! Mo, mo'mo moooooo mo mooo, moo M mo mo moooo; moo

YE have run and hidden. Come forth from behind your cotton bags! I have
MO mooo moo moo mooooo. Mooo moooo mooo mooooo mooo mooooo mooo! M mooo

no long gun to reach ye. Come, Ahab's compliments to ye; come and see
mo mooo moo mo moooo mo. Mooo, Mooo'm moooooooooo mo mo; mooo moo moo

if ye can swerve me. Swerve me? ye cannot swerve me, else ye swerve
mo mo moo mooooo mo. Mooooo mo? mo mooooo mooooo mo, mooo mo mooooo

yourselves! man has ye there. Swerve me? The path to my fixed purpose is
mooooooooo! moo moo mo moooo. Mooooo mo? Moo mooo mo mo moooo moooooo mo

laid with iron rails, whereon my soul is grooved to run. Over unsounded
mooo mooo mooo moooo, moooooo mo mooo mo moooooo mo moo. Mooo moooooooo

gorges, through the rifled hearts of mountains, under torrents' beds,
mooooo, moooooo moo mooooo mooooo mo moooooooo, moooo mooooooo' mooo,

unerringly I rush! Naught's an obstacle, naught's an angle to the iron
mooooooooo M mooo! Mooooo'm mo mooooooo, mooooo'm mo moooo mo moo mooo

way!
moo!










CHAPTER 38. Dusk.
MOOOOOO mo. Mooo.







BY THE MAINMAST; STARBUCK LEANING AGAINST IT.
MO MOO MOOOOOOO; MOOOOOOO MOOOOOO MOOOOOO MO.







My soul is more than matched; she's overmanned; and by a madman!
Mo mooo mo mooo mooo moooooo; moo'm mooooooooo; moo mo m mooooo!

Insufferable sting, that sanity should ground arms on such a field! But
Mooooooooooo moooo, mooo mooooo mooooo mooooo mooo mo mooo m moooo! Moo

he drilled deep down, and blasted all my reason out of me! I think I see
mo moooooo mooo mooo, moo moooooo moo mo mooooo moo mo mo! M moooo M moo

his impious end; but feel that I must help him to it. Will I, nill I,
moo moooooo moo; moo mooo mooo M mooo mooo moo mo mo. Mooo M, mooo M,

the ineffable thing has tied me to him; tows me with a cable I have no
moo moooooooo moooo moo mooo mo mo moo; mooo mo mooo m moooo M mooo mo

knife to cut. Horrible old man! Who's over him, he cries;--aye, he would
moooo mo moo. Mooooooo moo moo! Moo'm mooo moo, mo moooo;--moo, mo moooo

be a democrat to all above; look, how he lords it over all below! Oh! I
mo m mooooooo mo moo moooo; mooo, moo mo moooo mo mooo moo moooo! Mo! M

plainly see my miserable office,--to obey, rebelling; and worse yet,
moooooo moo mo moooooooo mooooo,--mo mooo, moooooooo; moo moooo moo,

to hate with touch of pity! For in his eyes I read some lurid woe would
mo mooo mooo moooo mo mooo! Moo mo moo mooo M mooo mooo moooo moo moooo

shrivel me up, had I it. Yet is there hope. Time and tide flow wide.
moooooo mo mo, moo M mo. Moo mo moooo mooo. Mooo moo mooo mooo mooo.

The hated whale has the round watery world to swim in, as the small
Moo moooo moooo moo moo moooo mooooo moooo mo mooo mo, mo moo moooo

gold-fish has its glassy globe. His heaven-insulting purpose, God may
mooo-mooo moo moo mooooo moooo. Moo mooooo-moooooooo moooooo, Moo moo

wedge aside. I would up heart, were it not like lead. But my whole
moooo moooo. M moooo mo moooo, mooo mo moo mooo mooo. Moo mo moooo

clock's run down; my heart the all-controlling weight, I have no key to
moooo'm moo mooo; mo moooo moo moo-moooooooooo mooooo, M mooo mo moo mo

lift again.
mooo moooo.







[A BURST OF REVELRY FROM THE FORECASTLE.]
[M MOOOO MO MOOOOOO MOOO MOO MOOOOOOOOO.]







Oh, God! to sail with such a heathen crew that have small touch of human
Mo, Moo! mo mooo mooo mooo m moooooo mooo mooo mooo moooo moooo mo moooo

mothers in them! Whelped somewhere by the sharkish sea. The white whale
moooooo mo mooo! Moooooo moooooooo mo moo mooooooo moo. Moo moooo moooo

is their demigorgon. Hark! the infernal orgies! that revelry is forward!
mo moooo mooooooooo. Mooo! moo mooooooo mooooo! mooo moooooo mo moooooo!

mark the unfaltering silence aft! Methinks it pictures life. Foremost
mooo moo moooooooooo moooooo moo! Mooooooo mo mooooooo mooo. Mooooooo

through the sparkling sea shoots on the gay, embattled, bantering
moooooo moo moooooooo moo mooooo mo moo moo, moooooooo, moooooooo

bow, but only to drag dark Ahab after it, where he broods within his
moo, moo mooo mo mooo mooo Mooo moooo mo, moooo mo mooooo mooooo moo

sternward cabin, builded over the dead water of the wake, and further
moooooooo moooo, moooooo mooo moo mooo moooo mo moo mooo, moo moooooo

on, hunted by its wolfish gurglings. The long howl thrills me through!
mo, mooooo mo moo moooooo moooooooo. Moo mooo mooo moooooo mo moooooo!

Peace! ye revellers, and set the watch! Oh, life! 'tis in an hour like
Moooo! mo moooooooo, moo moo moo moooo! Mo, mooo! 'moo mo mo mooo mooo

this, with soul beat down and held to knowledge,--as wild, untutored
mooo, mooo mooo mooo mooo moo mooo mo moooooooo,--mo mooo, moooooooo

things are forced to feed--Oh, life! 'tis now that I do feel the latent
mooooo moo mooooo mo mooo--Mo, mooo! 'moo moo mooo M mo mooo moo mooooo

horror in thee! but 'tis not me! that horror's out of me! and with the
mooooo mo mooo! moo 'moo moo mo! mooo mooooo'm moo mo mo! moo mooo moo

soft feeling of the human in me, yet will I try to fight ye, ye grim,
mooo moooooo mo moo moooo mo mo, moo mooo M moo mo moooo mo, mo mooo,

phantom futures! Stand by me, hold me, bind me, O ye blessed influences!
moooooo moooooo! Moooo mo mo, mooo mo, mooo mo, M mo moooooo mooooooooo!










CHAPTER 39. First Night Watch.
MOOOOOO mo. Moooo Moooo Moooo.




Fore-Top.
Mooo-Moo.




(STUBB SOLUS, AND MENDING A BRACE.)
(MOOOO MOOOO, MOO MOOOOOO M MOOOO.)







Ha! ha! ha! ha! hem! clear my throat!--I've been thinking over it
Mo! mo! mo! mo! moo! moooo mo mooooo!--M'mo mooo mooooooo mooo mo

ever since, and that ha, ha's the final consequence. Why so? Because a
mooo moooo, moo mooo mo, mo'm moo moooo moooooooooo. Moo mo? Moooooo m

laugh's the wisest, easiest answer to all that's queer; and come what
moooo'm moo mooooo, moooooo mooooo mo moo mooo'm moooo; moo mooo mooo

will, one comfort's always left--that unfailing comfort is, it's all
mooo, moo moooooo'm mooooo mooo--mooo moooooooo moooooo mo, mo'm moo

predestinated. I heard not all his talk with Starbuck; but to my poor
moooooooooooo. M moooo moo moo moo mooo mooo Mooooooo; moo mo mo mooo

eye Starbuck then looked something as I the other evening felt. Be sure
moo Mooooooo mooo mooooo moooooooo mo M moo moooo moooooo mooo. Mo mooo

the old Mogul has fixed him, too. I twigged it, knew it; had had the
moo moo Moooo moo moooo moo, moo. M moooooo mo, mooo mo; moo moo moo

gift, might readily have prophesied it--for when I clapped my eye upon
mooo, moooo moooooo mooo mooooooooo mo--moo mooo M moooooo mo moo mooo

his skull I saw it. Well, Stubb, WISE Stubb--that's my title--well,
moo moooo M moo mo. Mooo, Moooo, MOOO Moooo--mooo'm mo moooo--mooo,

Stubb, what of it, Stubb? Here's a carcase. I know not all that may be
Moooo, mooo mo mo, Moooo? Mooo'm m moooooo. M mooo moo moo mooo moo mo

coming, but be it what it will, I'll go to it laughing. Such a waggish
mooooo, moo mo mo mooo mo mooo, M'mo mo mo mo mooooooo. Mooo m moooooo

leering as lurks in all your horribles! I feel funny. Fa, la! lirra,
moooooo mo moooo mo moo mooo moooooooo! M mooo moooo. Mo, mo! moooo,

skirra! What's my juicy little pear at home doing now? Crying its eyes
mooooo! Mooo'm mo moooo mooooo mooo mo mooo moooo moo? Mooooo moo mooo

out?--Giving a party to the last arrived harpooneers, I dare say, gay as
moo?--Mooooo m moooo mo moo mooo moooooo moooooooooo, M mooo moo, moo mo

a frigate's pennant, and so am I--fa, la! lirra, skirra! Oh--
m moooooo'm moooooo, moo mo mo M--mo, mo! moooo, mooooo! Mo--




We'll drink to-night with hearts as light, To love, as gay and fleeting
Mo'mo moooo mo-moooo mooo mooooo mo moooo, Mo mooo, mo moo moo mooooooo

As bubbles that swim, on the beaker's brim, And break on the lips while
Mo moooooo mooo mooo, mo moo mooooo'm mooo, Moo moooo mo moo mooo moooo

meeting.
moooooo.







A brave stave that--who calls? Mr. Starbuck? Aye, aye, sir--(ASIDE) he's
M moooo moooo mooo--moo moooo? Mo. Mooooooo? Moo, moo, moo--(MOOOO) mo'm

my superior, he has his too, if I'm not mistaken.--Aye, aye, sir, just
mo mooooooo, mo moo moo moo, mo M'm moo mooooooo.--Moo, moo, moo, mooo

through with this job--coming.
moooooo mooo mooo moo--mooooo.










CHAPTER 40. Midnight, Forecastle.
MOOOOOO mo. Mooooooo, Mooooooooo.




HARPOONEERS AND SAILORS.
MOOOOOOOOOO MOO MOOOOOO.




(FORESAIL RISES AND DISCOVERS THE WATCH STANDING, LOUNGING, LEANING, AND
(MOOOOOOO MOOOO MOO MOOOOOOOO MOO MOOOO MOOOOOOO, MOOOOOOO, MOOOOOO, MOO

LYING IN VARIOUS ATTITUDES, ALL SINGING IN CHORUS.)
MOOOO MO MOOOOOO MOOOOOOOO, MOO MOOOOOO MO MOOOOO.)




     Farewell and adieu to you, Spanish ladies!
     Mooooooo moo moooo mo moo, Moooooo mooooo!

     Farewell and adieu to you, ladies of Spain!
     Mooooooo moo moooo mo moo, mooooo mo Moooo!

     Our captain's commanded.--
     Moo moooooo'm moooooooo.--




1ST NANTUCKET SAILOR. Oh, boys, don't be sentimental; it's bad for the
MOO MOOOOOOOO MOOOOO. Mo, mooo, moo'm mo moooooooooo; mo'm moo moo moo

digestion! Take a tonic, follow me! (SINGS, AND ALL FOLLOW)
moooooooo! Mooo m moooo, mooooo mo! (MOOOO, MOO MOO MOOOOO)




    Our captain stood upon the deck,
    Moo moooooo moooo mooo moo mooo,

    A spy-glass in his hand,
    M moo-moooo mo moo mooo,

    A viewing of those gallant whales
    M moooooo mo moooo moooooo mooooo

    That blew at every strand.
    Mooo mooo mo moooo mooooo.

    Oh, your tubs in your boats, my boys,
    Mo, mooo mooo mo mooo moooo, mo mooo,

    And by your braces stand,
    Moo mo mooo mooooo moooo,

    And we'll have one of those fine whales,
    Moo mo'mo mooo moo mo moooo mooo mooooo,

    Hand, boys, over hand!
    Mooo, mooo, mooo mooo!

    So, be cheery, my lads! may your hearts never fail!
    Mo, mo mooooo, mo mooo! moo mooo mooooo moooo mooo!

    While the bold harpooner is striking the whale!
    Moooo moo mooo moooooooo mo mooooooo moo moooo!




MATE'S VOICE FROM THE QUARTER-DECK. Eight bells there, forward!
MOOO'M MOOOO MOOO MOO MOOOOOO-MOOO. Moooo moooo moooo, moooooo!




2ND NANTUCKET SAILOR. Avast the chorus! Eight bells there! d'ye hear,
MOO MOOOOOOOO MOOOOO. Moooo moo mooooo! Moooo moooo moooo! m'mo mooo,

bell-boy? Strike the bell eight, thou Pip! thou blackling! and let me
mooo-moo? Mooooo moo mooo moooo, mooo Moo! mooo moooooooo! moo moo mo

call the watch. I've the sort of mouth for that--the hogshead mouth.
mooo moo moooo. M'mo moo mooo mo moooo moo mooo--moo mooooooo moooo.

So, so, (THRUSTS HIS HEAD DOWN THE SCUTTLE,) Star-bo-l-e-e-n-s, a-h-o-y!
Mo, mo, (MOOOOOO MOO MOOO MOOO MOO MOOOOOO,) Mooo-mo-m-m-m-m-m, m-m-m-m!

Eight bells there below! Tumble up!
Moooo moooo moooo moooo! Mooooo mo!




DUTCH SAILOR. Grand snoozing to-night, maty; fat night for that. I
MOOOO MOOOOO. Moooo mooooooo mo-moooo, mooo; moo moooo moo mooo. M

mark this in our old Mogul's wine; it's quite as deadening to some as
mooo mooo mo moo moo Moooo'm mooo; mo'm moooo mo moooooooo mo mooo mo

filliping to others. We sing; they sleep--aye, lie down there, like
moooooooo mo mooooo. Mo mooo; mooo moooo--moo, moo mooo moooo, mooo

ground-tier butts. At 'em again! There, take this copper-pump, and hail
mooooo-mooo moooo. Mo 'mo moooo! Moooo, mooo mooo mooooo-mooo, moo mooo

'em through it. Tell 'em to avast dreaming of their lasses. Tell 'em
'mo moooooo mo. Mooo 'mo mo moooo mooooooo mo moooo mooooo. Mooo 'mo

it's the resurrection; they must kiss their last, and come to judgment.
mo'm moo mooooooooooo; mooo mooo mooo moooo mooo, moo mooo mo mooooooo.

That's the way--THAT'S it; thy throat ain't spoiled with eating
Mooo'm moo moo--MOOO'M mo; moo mooooo moo'm moooooo mooo mooooo

Amsterdam butter.
Moooooooo mooooo.




FRENCH SAILOR. Hist, boys! let's have a jig or two before we ride to
MOOOOO MOOOOO. Mooo, mooo! moo'm mooo m moo mo moo mooooo mo mooo mo

anchor in Blanket Bay. What say ye? There comes the other watch. Stand
mooooo mo Moooooo Moo. Mooo moo mo? Moooo moooo moo moooo moooo. Moooo

by all legs! Pip! little Pip! hurrah with your tambourine!
mo moo mooo! Moo! mooooo Moo! mooooo mooo mooo mooooooooo!




PIP. (SULKY AND SLEEPY) Don't know where it is.
MOO. (MOOOO MOO MOOOOO) Moo'm mooo moooo mo mo.




FRENCH SAILOR. Beat thy belly, then, and wag thy ears. Jig it, men,
MOOOOO MOOOOO. Mooo moo moooo, mooo, moo moo moo mooo. Moo mo, moo,

I say; merry's the word; hurrah! Damn me, won't you dance? Form, now,
M moo; moooo'm moo mooo; mooooo! Mooo mo, moo'm moo moooo? Mooo, moo,

Indian-file, and gallop into the double-shuffle? Throw yourselves! Legs!
Mooooo-mooo, moo mooooo mooo moo mooooo-moooooo? Moooo mooooooooo! Mooo!

legs!
mooo!




ICELAND SAILOR. I don't like your floor, maty; it's too springy to my
MOOOOOO MOOOOO. M moo'm mooo mooo moooo, mooo; mo'm moo moooooo mo mo

taste. I'm used to ice-floors. I'm sorry to throw cold water on the
moooo. M'm mooo mo moo-mooooo. M'm moooo mo moooo mooo moooo mo moo

subject; but excuse me.
moooooo; moo mooooo mo.




MALTESE SAILOR. Me too; where's your girls? Who but a fool would take
MOOOOOO MOOOOO. Mo moo; moooo'm mooo moooo? Moo moo m mooo moooo mooo

his left hand by his right, and say to himself, how d'ye do? Partners! I
moo mooo mooo mo moo moooo, moo moo mo moooooo, moo m'mo mo? Mooooooo! M

must have partners!
mooo mooo mooooooo!




SICILIAN SAILOR. Aye; girls and a green!--then I'll hop with ye; yea,
MOOOOOOO MOOOOO. Moo; moooo moo m moooo!--mooo M'mo moo mooo mo; moo,

turn grasshopper!
mooo moooooooooo!




LONG-ISLAND SAILOR. Well, well, ye sulkies, there's plenty more of us.
MOOO-MOOOOO MOOOOO. Mooo, mooo, mo moooooo, moooo'm mooooo mooo mo mo.

Hoe corn when you may, say I. All legs go to harvest soon. Ah! here
Moo mooo mooo moo moo, moo M. Moo mooo mo mo moooooo mooo. Mo! mooo

comes the music; now for it!
moooo moo moooo; moo moo mo!




AZORE SAILOR. (ASCENDING, AND PITCHING THE TAMBOURINE UP THE SCUTTLE.)
MOOOO MOOOOO. (MOOOOOOOO, MOO MOOOOOOO MOO MOOOOOOOOO MO MOO MOOOOOO.)

Here you are, Pip; and there's the windlass-bitts; up you mount! Now,
Mooo moo moo, Moo; moo moooo'm moo mooooooo-moooo; mo moo moooo! Moo,

boys! (THE HALF OF THEM DANCE TO THE TAMBOURINE; SOME GO BELOW; SOME
mooo! (MOO MOOO MO MOOO MOOOO MO MOO MOOOOOOOOO; MOOO MO MOOOO; MOOO

SLEEP OR LIE AMONG THE COILS OF RIGGING. OATHS A-PLENTY.)
MOOOO MO MOO MOOOO MOO MOOOO MO MOOOOOO. MOOOO M-MOOOOO.)




AZORE SAILOR. (DANCING) Go it, Pip! Bang it, bell-boy! Rig it, dig it,
MOOOO MOOOOO. (MOOOOOO) Mo mo, Moo! Mooo mo, mooo-moo! Moo mo, moo mo,

stig it, quig it, bell-boy! Make fire-flies; break the jinglers!
mooo mo, mooo mo, mooo-moo! Mooo mooo-moooo; moooo moo mooooooo!




PIP. Jinglers, you say?--there goes another, dropped off; I pound it so.
MOO. Mooooooo, moo moo?--moooo mooo moooooo, moooooo moo; M moooo mo mo.




CHINA SAILOR. Rattle thy teeth, then, and pound away; make a pagoda of
MOOOO MOOOOO. Mooooo moo moooo, mooo, moo moooo mooo; mooo m mooooo mo

thyself.
moooooo.







FRENCH SAILOR. Merry-mad! Hold up thy hoop, Pip, till I jump through it!
MOOOOO MOOOOO. Moooo-moo! Mooo mo moo mooo, Moo, mooo M mooo moooooo mo!

Split jibs! tear yourselves!
Moooo mooo! mooo mooooooooo!




TASHTEGO. (QUIETLY SMOKING) That's a white man; he calls that fun:
MOOOOOOO. (MOOOOOO MOOOOOO) Mooo'm m moooo moo; mo moooo mooo moo:

humph! I save my sweat.
moooo! M mooo mo moooo.




OLD MANX SAILOR. I wonder whether those jolly lads bethink them of what
MOO MOOO MOOOOO. M mooooo moooooo moooo moooo mooo moooooo mooo mo mooo

they are dancing over. I'll dance over your grave, I will--that's
mooo moo moooooo mooo. M'mo moooo mooo mooo moooo, M mooo--mooo'm

the bitterest threat of your night-women, that beat head-winds round
moo moooooooo mooooo mo mooo moooo-moooo, mooo mooo mooo-moooo moooo

corners. O Christ! to think of the green navies and the green-skulled
moooooo. M Mooooo! mo moooo mo moo moooo mooooo moo moo moooo-moooooo

crews! Well, well; belike the whole world's a ball, as you scholars have
moooo! Mooo, mooo; mooooo moo moooo moooo'm m mooo, mo moo mooooooo mooo

it; and so 'tis right to make one ballroom of it. Dance on, lads, you're
mo; moo mo 'moo moooo mo mooo moo mooooooo mo mo. Moooo mo, mooo, moo'mo

young; I was once.
moooo; M moo mooo.




3D NANTUCKET SAILOR. Spell oh!--whew! this is worse than pulling after
MO MOOOOOOOO MOOOOO. Moooo mo!--mooo! mooo mo moooo mooo moooooo moooo

whales in a calm--give us a whiff, Tash.
mooooo mo m mooo--mooo mo m moooo, Mooo.




(THEY CEASE DANCING, AND GATHER IN CLUSTERS. MEANTIME THE SKY
(MOOO MOOOO MOOOOOO, MOO MOOOOO MO MOOOOOOO. MOOOOOOO MOO MOO

DARKENS--THE WIND RISES.)
MOOOOOO--MOO MOOO MOOOO.)




LASCAR SAILOR. By Brahma! boys, it'll be douse sail soon. The sky-born,
MOOOOO MOOOOO. Mo Mooooo! mooo, mo'mo mo moooo mooo mooo. Moo moo-mooo,

high-tide Ganges turned to wind! Thou showest thy black brow, Seeva!
mooo-mooo Mooooo mooooo mo mooo! Mooo moooooo moo moooo mooo, Moooo!




MALTESE SAILOR. (RECLINING AND SHAKING HIS CAP.) It's the waves--the
MOOOOOO MOOOOO. (MOOOOOOOO MOO MOOOOOO MOO MOO.) Mo'm moo moooo--moo

snow's caps turn to jig it now. They'll shake their tassels soon. Now
mooo'm mooo mooo mo moo mo moo. Mooo'mo moooo moooo moooooo mooo. Moo

would all the waves were women, then I'd go drown, and chassee with them
moooo moo moo moooo mooo moooo, mooo M'm mo moooo, moo moooooo mooo mooo

evermore! There's naught so sweet on earth--heaven may not match
mooooooo! Moooo'm mooooo mo moooo mo moooo--mooooo moo moo moooo

it!--as those swift glances of warm, wild bosoms in the dance, when the
mo!--mo moooo moooo moooooo mo mooo, mooo mooooo mo moo moooo, mooo moo

over-arboring arms hide such ripe, bursting grapes.
mooo-mooooooo mooo mooo mooo mooo, mooooooo mooooo.




SICILIAN SAILOR. (RECLINING.) Tell me not of it! Hark ye, lad--fleet
MOOOOOOO MOOOOO. (MOOOOOOOO.) Mooo mo moo mo mo! Mooo mo, moo--moooo

interlacings of the limbs--lithe swayings--coyings--flutterings! lip!
mooooooooooo mo moo moooo--moooo mooooooo--moooooo--moooooooooo! moo!

heart! hip! all graze: unceasing touch and go! not taste, observe ye,
moooo! moo! moo moooo: moooooooo moooo moo mo! moo moooo, moooooo mo,

else come satiety. Eh, Pagan? (NUDGING.)
mooo mooo moooooo. Mo, Moooo? (MOOOOOO.)




TAHITAN SAILOR. (RECLINING ON A MAT.) Hail, holy nakedness of our
MOOOOOO MOOOOO. (MOOOOOOOO MO M MOO.) Mooo, mooo moooooooo mo moo

dancing girls!--the Heeva-Heeva! Ah! low veiled, high palmed Tahiti! I
moooooo moooo!--moo Moooo-Moooo! Mo! moo mooooo, mooo mooooo Mooooo! M

still rest me on thy mat, but the soft soil has slid! I saw thee woven
moooo mooo mo mo moo moo, moo moo mooo mooo moo mooo! M moo mooo moooo

in the wood, my mat! green the first day I brought ye thence; now worn
mo moo mooo, mo moo! moooo moo moooo moo M moooooo mo mooooo; moo mooo

and wilted quite. Ah me!--not thou nor I can bear the change! How
moo mooooo moooo. Mo mo!--moo mooo moo M moo mooo moo mooooo! Moo

then, if so be transplanted to yon sky? Hear I the roaring streams from
mooo, mo mo mo mooooooooooo mo moo moo? Mooo M moo moooooo moooooo mooo

Pirohitee's peak of spears, when they leap down the crags and drown the
Moooooooo'm mooo mo mooooo, mooo mooo mooo mooo moo moooo moo moooo moo

villages?--The blast! the blast! Up, spine, and meet it! (LEAPS TO HIS
mooooooo?--Moo moooo! moo moooo! Mo, moooo, moo mooo mo! (MOOOO MO MOO

FEET.)
MOOO.)




PORTUGUESE SAILOR. How the sea rolls swashing 'gainst the side! Stand
MOOOOOOOOO MOOOOO. Moo moo moo moooo mooooooo 'mooooo moo mooo! Moooo

by for reefing, hearties! the winds are just crossing swords, pell-mell
mo moo moooooo, mooooooo! moo moooo moo mooo mooooooo mooooo, mooo-mooo

they'll go lunging presently.
mooo'mo mo moooooo moooooooo.




DANISH SAILOR. Crack, crack, old ship! so long as thou crackest, thou
MOOOOO MOOOOO. Moooo, moooo, moo mooo! mo mooo mo mooo mooooooo, mooo

holdest! Well done! The mate there holds ye to it stiffly. He's no more
moooooo! Mooo mooo! Moo mooo moooo moooo mo mo mo moooooo. Mo'm mo mooo

afraid than the isle fort at Cattegat, put there to fight the Baltic
mooooo mooo moo mooo mooo mo Mooooooo, moo moooo mo moooo moo Mooooo

with storm-lashed guns, on which the sea-salt cakes!
mooo moooo-mooooo mooo, mo moooo moo moo-mooo moooo!




4TH NANTUCKET SAILOR. He has his orders, mind ye that. I heard old
MOO MOOOOOOOO MOOOOO. Mo moo moo mooooo, mooo mo mooo. M moooo moo

Ahab tell him he must always kill a squall, something as they burst a
Mooo mooo moo mo mooo mooooo mooo m mooooo, moooooooo mo mooo moooo m

waterspout with a pistol--fire your ship right into it!
mooooooooo mooo m mooooo--mooo mooo mooo moooo mooo mo!




ENGLISH SAILOR. Blood! but that old man's a grand old cove! We are the
MOOOOOO MOOOOO. Moooo! moo mooo moo moo'm m moooo moo mooo! Mo moo moo

lads to hunt him up his whale!
mooo mo mooo moo mo moo moooo!




ALL. Aye! aye!
MOO. Moo! moo!




OLD MANX SAILOR. How the three pines shake! Pines are the hardest sort
MOO MOOO MOOOOO. Moo moo moooo moooo moooo! Moooo moo moo moooooo mooo

of tree to live when shifted to any other soil, and here there's none
mo mooo mo mooo mooo moooooo mo moo moooo mooo, moo mooo moooo'm mooo

but the crew's cursed clay. Steady, helmsman! steady. This is the sort
moo moo mooo'm mooooo mooo. Mooooo, mooooooo! mooooo. Mooo mo moo mooo

of weather when brave hearts snap ashore, and keeled hulls split at sea.
mo moooooo mooo moooo mooooo mooo mooooo, moo mooooo moooo moooo mo moo.

Our captain has his birthmark; look yonder, boys, there's another in the
Moo moooooo moo moo moooooooo; mooo mooooo, mooo, moooo'm moooooo mo moo

sky--lurid-like, ye see, all else pitch black.
moo--moooo-mooo, mo moo, moo mooo moooo moooo.




DAGGOO. What of that? Who's afraid of black's afraid of me! I'm quarried
MOOOOO. Mooo mo mooo? Moo'm mooooo mo moooo'm mooooo mo mo! M'm mooooooo

out of it!
moo mo mo!




SPANISH SAILOR. (ASIDE.) He wants to bully, ah!--the old grudge makes
MOOOOOO MOOOOO. (MOOOO.) Mo moooo mo moooo, mo!--moo moo mooooo moooo

me touchy (ADVANCING.) Aye, harpooneer, thy race is the undeniable dark
mo mooooo (MOOOOOOOO.) Moo, mooooooooo, moo mooo mo moo mooooooooo mooo

side of mankind--devilish dark at that. No offence.
mooo mo moooooo--mooooooo mooo mo mooo. Mo moooooo.




DAGGOO (GRIMLY). None.
MOOOOO (MOOOOO). Mooo.




ST. JAGO'S SAILOR. That Spaniard's mad or drunk. But that can't be, or
MO. MOOO'M MOOOOO. Mooo Mooooooo'm moo mo moooo. Moo mooo moo'm mo, mo

else in his one case our old Mogul's fire-waters are somewhat long in
mooo mo moo moo mooo moo moo Moooo'm mooo-mooooo moo mooooooo mooo mo

working.
moooooo.




5TH NANTUCKET SAILOR. What's that I saw--lightning? Yes.
MOO MOOOOOOOO MOOOOO. Mooo'm mooo M moo--moooooooo? Moo.




SPANISH SAILOR. No; Daggoo showing his teeth.
MOOOOOO MOOOOO. Mo; Mooooo moooooo moo moooo.




DAGGOO (SPRINGING). Swallow thine, mannikin! White skin, white liver!
MOOOOO (MOOOOOOOO). Moooooo moooo, mooooooo! Moooo mooo, moooo moooo!




SPANISH SAILOR (MEETING HIM). Knife thee heartily! big frame, small
MOOOOOO MOOOOO (MOOOOOO MOO). Moooo mooo mooooooo! moo moooo, moooo

spirit!
mooooo!




ALL. A row! a row! a row!
MOO. M moo! m moo! m moo!




TASHTEGO (WITH A WHIFF). A row a'low, and a row aloft--Gods and
MOOOOOOO (MOOO M MOOOO). M moo m'moo, moo m moo moooo--Mooo moo

men--both brawlers! Humph!
moo--mooo mooooooo! Moooo!




BELFAST SAILOR. A row! arrah a row! The Virgin be blessed, a row! Plunge
MOOOOOO MOOOOO. M moo! moooo m moo! Moo Mooooo mo moooooo, m moo! Mooooo

in with ye!
mo mooo mo!




ENGLISH SAILOR. Fair play! Snatch the Spaniard's knife! A ring, a ring!
MOOOOOO MOOOOO. Mooo mooo! Mooooo moo Mooooooo'm moooo! M mooo, m mooo!




OLD MANX SAILOR. Ready formed. There! the ringed horizon. In that ring
MOO MOOO MOOOOO. Moooo mooooo. Moooo! moo mooooo moooooo. Mo mooo mooo

Cain struck Abel. Sweet work, right work! No? Why then, God, mad'st thou
Mooo mooooo Mooo. Moooo mooo, moooo mooo! Mo? Moo mooo, Moo, moo'mo mooo

the ring?
moo mooo?




MATE'S VOICE FROM THE QUARTER-DECK. Hands by the halyards! in
MOOO'M MOOOO MOOO MOO MOOOOOO-MOOO. Moooo mo moo mooooooo! mo

top-gallant sails! Stand by to reef topsails!
moo-moooooo moooo! Moooo mo mo mooo mooooooo!




ALL. The squall! the squall! jump, my jollies! (THEY SCATTER.)
MOO. Moo mooooo! moo mooooo! mooo, mo moooooo! (MOOO MOOOOOO.)







PIP (SHRINKING UNDER THE WINDLASS). Jollies? Lord help such jollies!
MOO (MOOOOOOOO MOOOO MOO MOOOOOOO). Moooooo? Mooo mooo mooo moooooo!

Crish, crash! there goes the jib-stay! Blang-whang! God! Duck lower,
Moooo, moooo! moooo mooo moo moo-mooo! Moooo-moooo! Moo! Mooo moooo,

Pip, here comes the royal yard! It's worse than being in the whirled
Moo, mooo moooo moo moooo mooo! Mo'm moooo mooo moooo mo moo moooooo

woods, the last day of the year! Who'd go climbing after chestnuts now?
moooo, moo mooo moo mo moo mooo! Moo'm mo mooooooo moooo moooooooo moo?

But there they go, all cursing, and here I don't. Fine prospects to 'em;
Moo moooo mooo mo, moo moooooo, moo mooo M moo'm. Mooo moooooooo mo 'mo;

they're on the road to heaven. Hold on hard! Jimmini, what a squall!
mooo'mo mo moo mooo mo mooooo. Mooo mo mooo! Moooooo, mooo m mooooo!

But those chaps there are worse yet--they are your white squalls, they.
Moo moooo moooo moooo moo moooo moo--mooo moo mooo moooo moooooo, mooo.

White squalls? white whale, shirr! shirr! Here have I heard all their
Moooo moooooo? moooo moooo, moooo! moooo! Mooo mooo M moooo moo moooo

chat just now, and the white whale--shirr! shirr!--but spoken of
mooo mooo moo, moo moo moooo moooo--moooo! moooo!--moo mooooo mo

once! and only this evening--it makes me jingle all over like my
mooo! moo mooo mooo moooooo--mo moooo mo mooooo moo mooo mooo mo

tambourine--that anaconda of an old man swore 'em in to hunt him! Oh,
mooooooooo--mooo mooooooo mo mo moo moo moooo 'mo mo mo mooo moo! Mo,

thou big white God aloft there somewhere in yon darkness, have mercy on
mooo moo moooo Moo moooo moooo moooooooo mo moo mooooooo, mooo moooo mo

this small black boy down here; preserve him from all men that have no
mooo moooo moooo moo mooo mooo; mooooooo moo mooo moo moo mooo mooo mo

bowels to feel fear!
mooooo mo mooo mooo!










CHAPTER 41. Moby Dick.
MOOOOOO mo. Mooo Mooo.







I, Ishmael, was one of that crew; my shouts had gone up with the rest;
M, Moooooo, moo moo mo mooo mooo; mo mooooo moo mooo mo mooo moo mooo;

my oath had been welded with theirs; and stronger I shouted, and more
mo mooo moo mooo mooooo mooo mooooo; moo mooooooo M moooooo, moo mooo

did I hammer and clinch my oath, because of the dread in my soul. A
moo M mooooo moo mooooo mo mooo, moooooo mo moo moooo mo mo mooo. M

wild, mystical, sympathetical feeling was in me; Ahab's quenchless feud
mooo, mooooooo, moooooooooooo moooooo moo mo mo; Mooo'm mooooooooo mooo

seemed mine. With greedy ears I learned the history of that murderous
mooooo mooo. Mooo mooooo mooo M moooooo moo moooooo mo mooo moooooooo

monster against whom I and all the others had taken our oaths of
moooooo moooooo mooo M moo moo moo mooooo moo moooo moo moooo mo

violence and revenge.
mooooooo moo moooooo.




For some time past, though at intervals only, the unaccompanied,
Moo mooo mooo mooo, mooooo mo moooooooo mooo, moo moooooooooooo,

secluded White Whale had haunted those uncivilized seas mostly
mooooooo Moooo Moooo moo moooooo moooo moooooooooo mooo mooooo

frequented by the Sperm Whale fishermen. But not all of them knew of his
mooooooooo mo moo Moooo Moooo moooooooo. Moo moo moo mo mooo mooo mo moo

existence; only a few of them, comparatively, had knowingly seen him;
moooooooo; mooo m moo mo mooo, moooooooooooo, moo moooooooo mooo moo;

while the number who as yet had actually and knowingly given battle to
moooo moo mooooo moo mo moo moo mooooooo moo moooooooo moooo mooooo mo

him, was small indeed. For, owing to the large number of whale-cruisers;
moo, moo moooo mooooo. Moo, moooo mo moo moooo mooooo mo moooo-mooooooo;

the disorderly way they were sprinkled over the entire watery
moo mooooooooo moo mooo mooo moooooooo mooo moo mooooo mooooo

circumference, many of them adventurously pushing their quest along
moooooooooooo, mooo mo mooo moooooooooooo moooooo moooo moooo moooo

solitary latitudes, so as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth or
mooooooo moooooooo, mo mo mooooo mo moooo moo m moooo moooooooooo mo

more on a stretch, to encounter a single news-telling sail of any sort;
mooo mo m moooooo, mo moooooooo m mooooo mooo-moooooo mooo mo moo mooo;

the inordinate length of each separate voyage; the irregularity of the
moo mooooooooo mooooo mo mooo mooooooo mooooo; moo mooooooooooo mo moo

times of sailing from home; all these, with other circumstances, direct
moooo mo moooooo mooo mooo; moo moooo, mooo moooo moooooooooooo, mooooo

and indirect, long obstructed the spread through the whole world-wide
moo mooooooo, mooo mooooooooo moo mooooo moooooo moo moooo moooo-mooo

whaling-fleet of the special individualizing tidings concerning Moby
moooooo-moooo mo moo moooooo moooooooooooooo moooooo mooooooooo Mooo

Dick. It was hardly to be doubted, that several vessels reported to have
Mooo. Mo moo mooooo mo mo moooooo, mooo moooooo moooooo mooooooo mo mooo

encountered, at such or such a time, or on such or such a meridian,
moooooooooo, mo mooo mo mooo m mooo, mo mo mooo mo mooo m mooooooo,

a Sperm Whale of uncommon magnitude and malignity, which whale, after
m Moooo Moooo mo mooooooo moooooooo moo moooooooo, moooo moooo, moooo

doing great mischief to his assailants, had completely escaped them; to
moooo moooo mooooooo mo moo mooooooooo, moo mooooooooo moooooo mooo; mo

some minds it was not an unfair presumption, I say, that the whale in
mooo moooo mo moo moo mo mooooo moooooooooo, M moo, mooo moo moooo mo

question must have been no other than Moby Dick. Yet as of late the
mooooooo mooo mooo mooo mo moooo mooo Mooo Mooo. Moo mo mo mooo moo

Sperm Whale fishery had been marked by various and not unfrequent
Moooo Moooo moooooo moo mooo mooooo mo moooooo moo moo mooooooooo

instances of great ferocity, cunning, and malice in the monster
moooooooo mo moooo mooooooo, moooooo, moo mooooo mo moo moooooo

attacked; therefore it was, that those who by accident ignorantly gave
mooooooo; moooooooo mo moo, mooo moooo moo mo mooooooo mooooooooo mooo

battle to Moby Dick; such hunters, perhaps, for the most part, were
mooooo mo Mooo Mooo; mooo moooooo, moooooo, moo moo mooo mooo, mooo

content to ascribe the peculiar terror he bred, more, as it were, to
moooooo mo moooooo moo mooooooo mooooo mo mooo, mooo, mo mo mooo, mo

the perils of the Sperm Whale fishery at large, than to the individual
moo mooooo mo moo Moooo Moooo moooooo mo moooo, mooo mo moo mooooooooo

cause. In that way, mostly, the disastrous encounter between Ahab and
moooo. Mo mooo moo, mooooo, moo mooooooooo moooooooo moooooo Mooo moo

the whale had hitherto been popularly regarded.
moo moooo moo mooooooo mooo moooooooo mooooooo.




And as for those who, previously hearing of the White Whale, by chance
Moo mo moo moooo moo, mooooooooo moooooo mo moo Moooo Moooo, mo mooooo

caught sight of him; in the beginning of the thing they had every one of
mooooo moooo mo moo; mo moo moooooooo mo moo moooo mooo moo moooo moo mo

them, almost, as boldly and fearlessly lowered for him, as for any other
mooo, mooooo, mo mooooo moo mooooooooo moooooo moo moo, mo moo moo moooo

whale of that species. But at length, such calamities did ensue in these
moooo mo mooo moooooo. Moo mo mooooo, mooo mooooooooo moo moooo mo moooo

assaults--not restricted to sprained wrists and ankles, broken limbs, or
mooooooo--moo mooooooooo mo mooooooo mooooo moo mooooo, mooooo moooo, mo

devouring amputations--but fatal to the last degree of fatality; those
moooooooo moooooooooo--moo moooo mo moo mooo mooooo mo mooooooo; moooo

repeated disastrous repulses, all accumulating and piling their terrors
mooooooo mooooooooo mooooooo, moo mooooooooooo moo mooooo moooo moooooo

upon Moby Dick; those things had gone far to shake the fortitude of many
mooo Mooo Mooo; moooo mooooo moo mooo moo mo moooo moo moooooooo mo mooo

brave hunters, to whom the story of the White Whale had eventually come.
moooo moooooo, mo mooo moo moooo mo moo Moooo Moooo moo mooooooooo mooo.




Nor did wild rumors of all sorts fail to exaggerate, and still the more
Moo moo mooo mooooo mo moo moooo mooo mo mooooooooo, moo moooo moo mooo

horrify the true histories of these deadly encounters. For not only do
moooooo moo mooo moooooooo mo moooo mooooo mooooooooo. Moo moo mooo mo

fabulous rumors naturally grow out of the very body of all surprising
mooooooo mooooo moooooooo mooo moo mo moo mooo mooo mo moo mooooooooo

terrible events,--as the smitten tree gives birth to its fungi; but, in
mooooooo mooooo,--mo moo moooooo mooo moooo moooo mo moo moooo; moo, mo

maritime life, far more than in that of terra firma, wild rumors abound,
mooooooo mooo, moo mooo mooo mo mooo mo moooo moooo, mooo mooooo mooooo,

wherever there is any adequate reality for them to cling to. And as the
mooooooo moooo mo moo mooooooo moooooo moo mooo mo moooo mo. Moo mo moo

sea surpasses the land in this matter, so the whale fishery surpasses
moo moooooooo moo mooo mo mooo mooooo, mo moo moooo moooooo moooooooo

every other sort of maritime life, in the wonderfulness and fearfulness
moooo moooo mooo mo mooooooo mooo, mo moo moooooooooooo moo moooooooooo

of the rumors which sometimes circulate there. For not only are whalemen
mo moo mooooo moooo moooooooo moooooooo moooo. Moo moo mooo moo mooooooo

as a body unexempt from that ignorance and superstitiousness hereditary
mo m mooo mooooooo mooo mooo moooooooo moo moooooooooooooooo mooooooooo

to all sailors; but of all sailors, they are by all odds the most
mo moo moooooo; moo mo moo moooooo, mooo moo mo moo mooo moo mooo

directly brought into contact with whatever is appallingly astonishing
mooooooo moooooo mooo moooooo mooo mooooooo mo moooooooooo moooooooooo

in the sea; face to face they not only eye its greatest marvels, but,
mo moo moo; mooo mo mooo mooo moo mooo moo moo mooooooo moooooo, moo,

hand to jaw, give battle to them. Alone, in such remotest waters, that
mooo mo moo, mooo mooooo mo mooo. Moooo, mo mooo mooooooo mooooo, mooo

though you sailed a thousand miles, and passed a thousand shores, you
mooooo moo mooooo m mooooooo moooo, moo mooooo m mooooooo mooooo, moo

would not come to any chiseled hearth-stone, or aught hospitable beneath
moooo moo mooo mo moo mooooooo mooooo-moooo, mo moooo mooooooooo moooooo

that part of the sun; in such latitudes and longitudes, pursuing too
mooo mooo mo moo moo; mo mooo moooooooo moo mooooooooo, mooooooo moo

such a calling as he does, the whaleman is wrapped by influences all
mooo m moooooo mo mo mooo, moo mooooooo mo moooooo mo mooooooooo moo

tending to make his fancy pregnant with many a mighty birth.
moooooo mo mooo moo moooo mooooooo mooo mooo m mooooo moooo.




No wonder, then, that ever gathering volume from the mere transit over
Mo mooooo, mooo, mooo mooo moooooooo mooooo mooo moo mooo moooooo mooo

the widest watery spaces, the outblown rumors of the White Whale did
moo mooooo mooooo mooooo, moo mooooooo mooooo mo moo Moooo Moooo moo

in the end incorporate with themselves all manner of morbid hints,
mo moo moo moooooooooo mooo mooooooooo moo mooooo mo mooooo moooo,

and half-formed foetal suggestions of supernatural agencies, which
moo mooo-mooooo mooooo moooooooooo mo mooooooooooo mooooooo, moooo

eventually invested Moby Dick with new terrors unborrowed from anything
mooooooooo mooooooo Mooo Mooo mooo moo moooooo mooooooooo mooo mooooooo

that visibly appears. So that in many cases such a panic did he finally
mooo moooooo moooooo. Mo mooo mo mooo moooo mooo m moooo moo mo moooooo

strike, that few who by those rumors, at least, had heard of the White
mooooo, mooo moo moo mo moooo mooooo, mo moooo, moo moooo mo moo Moooo

Whale, few of those hunters were willing to encounter the perils of his
Moooo, moo mo moooo moooooo mooo moooooo mo moooooooo moo mooooo mo moo

jaw.
moo.




But there were still other and more vital practical influences at work.
Moo moooo mooo moooo moooo moo mooo moooo moooooooo mooooooooo mo mooo.

Not even at the present day has the original prestige of the Sperm
Moo mooo mo moo moooooo moo moo moo mooooooo mooooooo mo moo Moooo

Whale, as fearfully distinguished from all other species of the
Moooo, mo moooooooo moooooooooooo mooo moo moooo moooooo mo moo

leviathan, died out of the minds of the whalemen as a body. There are
moooooooo, mooo moo mo moo moooo mo moo mooooooo mo m mooo. Moooo moo

those this day among them, who, though intelligent and courageous
moooo mooo moo moooo mooo, moo, mooooo moooooooooo moo mooooooooo

enough in offering battle to the Greenland or Right whale, would
mooooo mo mooooooo mooooo mo moo Moooooooo mo Moooo moooo, moooo

perhaps--either from professional inexperience, or incompetency, or
moooooo--mooooo mooo mooooooooooo mooooooooooo, mo mooooooooooo, mo

timidity, decline a contest with the Sperm Whale; at any rate, there are
mooooooo, moooooo m moooooo mooo moo Moooo Moooo; mo moo mooo, moooo moo

plenty of whalemen, especially among those whaling nations not sailing
mooooo mo mooooooo, mooooooooo moooo moooo moooooo moooooo moo moooooo

under the American flag, who have never hostilely encountered the Sperm
moooo moo Mooooooo mooo, moo mooo moooo moooooooo moooooooooo moo Moooo

Whale, but whose sole knowledge of the leviathan is restricted to
Moooo, moo moooo mooo moooooooo mo moo moooooooo mo mooooooooo mo

the ignoble monster primitively pursued in the North; seated on their
moo moooooo moooooo moooooooooo moooooo mo moo Moooo; mooooo mo moooo

hatches, these men will hearken with a childish fireside interest
moooooo, moooo moo mooo moooooo mooo m mooooooo mooooooo mooooooo

and awe, to the wild, strange tales of Southern whaling. Nor is the
moo moo, mo moo mooo, moooooo moooo mo Mooooooo moooooo. Moo mo moo

pre-eminent tremendousness of the great Sperm Whale anywhere more
moo-moooooo mooooooooooooo mo moo moooo Moooo Moooo mooooooo mooo

feelingly comprehended, than on board of those prows which stem him.
moooooooo mooooooooooo, mooo mo moooo mo moooo moooo moooo mooo moo.




And as if the now tested reality of his might had in former
Moo mo mo moo moo mooooo moooooo mo moo moooo moo mo mooooo

legendary times thrown its shadow before it; we find some book
moooooooo moooo mooooo moo mooooo mooooo mo; mo mooo mooo mooo

naturalists--Olassen and Povelson--declaring the Sperm Whale not only to
moooooooooo--Moooooo moo Mooooooo--moooooooo moo Moooo Moooo moo mooo mo

be a consternation to every other creature in the sea, but also to be so
mo m moooooooooooo mo moooo moooo mooooooo mo moo moo, moo mooo mo mo mo

incredibly ferocious as continually to be athirst for human blood. Nor
mooooooooo moooooooo mo moooooooooo mo mo moooooo moo moooo moooo. Moo

even down to so late a time as Cuvier's, were these or almost similar
mooo mooo mo mo mooo m mooo mo Mooooo'm, mooo moooo mo mooooo moooooo

impressions effaced. For in his Natural History, the Baron himself
moooooooooo moooooo. Moo mo moo Moooooo Moooooo, moo Moooo moooooo

affirms that at sight of the Sperm Whale, all fish (sharks included) are
moooooo mooo mo moooo mo moo Moooo Moooo, moo mooo (mooooo mooooooo) moo

"struck with the most lively terrors," and "often in the precipitancy of
"mooooo mooo moo mooo mooooo moooooo," moo "moooo mo moo mooooooooooo mo

their flight dash themselves against the rocks with such violence as to
moooo mooooo mooo mooooooooo moooooo moo moooo mooo mooo mooooooo mo mo

cause instantaneous death." And however the general experiences in the
moooo moooooooooooo moooo." Moo moooooo moo moooooo moooooooooo mo moo

fishery may amend such reports as these; yet in their full terribleness,
moooooo moo moooo mooo moooooo mo moooo; moo mo moooo mooo mooooooooooo,

even to the bloodthirsty item of Povelson, the superstitious belief in
mooo mo moo mooooooooooo mooo mo Mooooooo, moo moooooooooooo mooooo mo

them is, in some vicissitudes of their vocation, revived in the minds of
mooo mo, mo mooo mooooooooooo mo moooo mooooooo, moooooo mo moo moooo mo

the hunters.
moo moooooo.




So that overawed by the rumors and portents concerning him, not a few of
Mo mooo mooooooo mo moo mooooo moo mooooooo mooooooooo moo, moo m moo mo

the fishermen recalled, in reference to Moby Dick, the earlier days
moo moooooooo mooooooo, mo moooooooo mo Mooo Mooo, moo moooooo mooo

of the Sperm Whale fishery, when it was oftentimes hard to induce long
mo moo Moooo Moooo moooooo, mooo mo moo mooooooooo mooo mo mooooo mooo

practised Right whalemen to embark in the perils of this new and daring
moooooooo Moooo mooooooo mo mooooo mo moo mooooo mo mooo moo moo mooooo

warfare; such men protesting that although other leviathans might be
moooooo; mooo moo mooooooooo mooo mooooooo moooo mooooooooo moooo mo

hopefully pursued, yet to chase and point lance at such an apparition
moooooooo moooooo, moo mo moooo moo moooo moooo mo mooo mo mooooooooo

as the Sperm Whale was not for mortal man. That to attempt it, would
mo moo Moooo Moooo moo moo moo mooooo moo. Mooo mo moooooo mo, moooo

be inevitably to be torn into a quick eternity. On this head, there are
mo mooooooooo mo mo mooo mooo m moooo mooooooo. Mo mooo mooo, moooo moo

some remarkable documents that may be consulted.
mooo mooooooooo moooooooo mooo moo mo moooooooo.




Nevertheless, some there were, who even in the face of these things
Mooooooooooo, mooo moooo mooo, moo mooo mo moo mooo mo moooo mooooo

were ready to give chase to Moby Dick; and a still greater number who,
mooo moooo mo mooo moooo mo Mooo Mooo; moo m moooo moooooo mooooo moo,

chancing only to hear of him distantly and vaguely, without the
mooooooo mooo mo mooo mo moo moooooooo moo moooooo, moooooo moo

specific details of any certain calamity, and without superstitious
mooooooo moooooo mo moo moooooo mooooooo, moo moooooo moooooooooooo

accompaniments, were sufficiently hardy not to flee from the battle if
mooooooooooooo, mooo mooooooooooo moooo moo mo mooo mooo moo mooooo mo

offered.
moooooo.




One of the wild suggestions referred to, as at last coming to be linked
Moo mo moo mooo moooooooooo mooooooo mo, mo mo mooo mooooo mo mo mooooo

with the White Whale in the minds of the superstitiously inclined,
mooo moo Moooo Moooo mo moo moooo mo moo moooooooooooooo mooooooo,

was the unearthly conceit that Moby Dick was ubiquitous; that he had
moo moo moooooooo moooooo mooo Mooo Mooo moo mooooooooo; mooo mo moo

actually been encountered in opposite latitudes at one and the same
mooooooo mooo moooooooooo mo mooooooo moooooooo mo moo moo moo mooo

instant of time.
moooooo mo mooo.




Nor, credulous as such minds must have been, was this conceit altogether
Moo, moooooooo mo mooo moooo mooo mooo mooo, moo mooo moooooo mooooooooo

without some faint show of superstitious probability. For as the secrets
moooooo mooo moooo mooo mo moooooooooooo moooooooooo. Moo mo moo moooooo

of the currents in the seas have never yet been divulged, even to
mo moo mooooooo mo moo mooo mooo moooo moo mooo mooooooo, mooo mo

the most erudite research; so the hidden ways of the Sperm Whale
moo mooo moooooo mooooooo; mo moo mooooo mooo mo moo Moooo Moooo

when beneath the surface remain, in great part, unaccountable to his
mooo moooooo moo moooooo mooooo, mo moooo mooo, moooooooooooo mo moo

pursuers; and from time to time have originated the most curious and
mooooooo; moo mooo mooo mo mooo mooo mooooooooo moo mooo moooooo moo

contradictory speculations regarding them, especially concerning the
moooooooooooo mooooooooooo moooooooo mooo, mooooooooo mooooooooo moo

mystic modes whereby, after sounding to a great depth, he transports
mooooo moooo moooooo, moooo mooooooo mo m moooo moooo, mo mooooooooo

himself with such vast swiftness to the most widely distant points.
moooooo mooo mooo mooo moooooooo mo moo mooo mooooo moooooo mooooo.




It is a thing well known to both American and English whale-ships, and
Mo mo m moooo mooo moooo mo mooo Mooooooo moo Moooooo moooo-moooo, moo

as well a thing placed upon authoritative record years ago by Scoresby,
mo mooo m moooo mooooo mooo moooooooooooo mooooo moooo moo mo Mooooooo,

that some whales have been captured far north in the Pacific, in whose
mooo mooo mooooo mooo mooo mooooooo moo moooo mo moo Moooooo, mo moooo

bodies have been found the barbs of harpoons darted in the Greenland
mooooo mooo mooo moooo moo moooo mo mooooooo mooooo mo moo Moooooooo

seas. Nor is it to be gainsaid, that in some of these instances it has
mooo. Moo mo mo mo mo mooooooo, mooo mo mooo mo moooo moooooooo mo moo

been declared that the interval of time between the two assaults could
mooo mooooooo mooo moo mooooooo mo mooo moooooo moo moo mooooooo moooo

not have exceeded very many days. Hence, by inference, it has been
moo mooo mooooooo mooo mooo mooo. Moooo, mo moooooooo, mo moo mooo

believed by some whalemen, that the Nor' West Passage, so long a problem
mooooooo mo mooo mooooooo, mooo moo Moo' Mooo Moooooo, mo mooo m moooooo

to man, was never a problem to the whale. So that here, in the real
mo moo, moo moooo m moooooo mo moo moooo. Mo mooo mooo, mo moo mooo

living experience of living men, the prodigies related in old times of
mooooo mooooooooo mo mooooo moo, moo moooooooo moooooo mo moo moooo mo

the inland Strello mountain in Portugal (near whose top there was said
moo mooooo Moooooo mooooooo mo Mooooooo (mooo moooo moo moooo moo mooo

to be a lake in which the wrecks of ships floated up to the surface);
mo mo m mooo mo moooo moo mooooo mo moooo moooooo mo mo moo moooooo);

and that still more wonderful story of the Arethusa fountain near
moo mooo moooo mooo moooooooo moooo mo moo Mooooooo mooooooo mooo

Syracuse (whose waters were believed to have come from the Holy Land
Mooooooo (moooo mooooo mooo mooooooo mo mooo mooo mooo moo Mooo Mooo

by an underground passage); these fabulous narrations are almost fully
mo mo moooooooooo moooooo); moooo mooooooo mooooooooo moo mooooo moooo

equalled by the realities of the whalemen.
mooooooo mo moo moooooooo mo moo mooooooo.




Forced into familiarity, then, with such prodigies as these; and knowing
Mooooo mooo moooooooooo, mooo, mooo mooo moooooooo mo moooo; moo moooooo

that after repeated, intrepid assaults, the White Whale had escaped
mooo moooo mooooooo, mooooooo mooooooo, moo Moooo Moooo moo moooooo

alive; it cannot be much matter of surprise that some whalemen should
moooo; mo mooooo mo mooo mooooo mo mooooooo mooo mooo mooooooo mooooo

go still further in their superstitions; declaring Moby Dick not only
mo moooo moooooo mo moooo moooooooooooo; moooooooo Mooo Mooo moo mooo

ubiquitous, but immortal (for immortality is but ubiquity in time); that
mooooooooo, moo mooooooo (moo moooooooooo mo moo mooooooo mo mooo); mooo

though groves of spears should be planted in his flanks, he would still
mooooo mooooo mo mooooo mooooo mo moooooo mo moo mooooo, mo moooo moooo

swim away unharmed; or if indeed he should ever be made to spout thick
mooo mooo mooooooo; mo mo mooooo mo mooooo mooo mo mooo mo moooo moooo

blood, such a sight would be but a ghastly deception; for again in
moooo, mooo m moooo moooo mo moo m moooooo moooooooo; moo moooo mo

unensanguined billows hundreds of leagues away, his unsullied jet would
moooooooooooo moooooo mooooooo mo moooooo mooo, moo moooooooo moo moooo

once more be seen.
mooo mooo mo mooo.




But even stripped of these supernatural surmisings, there was enough in
Moo mooo mooooooo mo moooo mooooooooooo mooooooooo, moooo moo mooooo mo

the earthly make and incontestable character of the monster to strike
moo moooooo mooo moo moooooooooooo moooooooo mo moo moooooo mo mooooo

the imagination with unwonted power. For, it was not so much his
moo moooooooooo mooo mooooooo moooo. Moo, mo moo moo mo mooo moo

uncommon bulk that so much distinguished him from other sperm whales,
mooooooo mooo mooo mo mooo moooooooooooo moo mooo moooo moooo mooooo,

but, as was elsewhere thrown out--a peculiar snow-white wrinkled
moo, mo moo moooooooo mooooo moo--m mooooooo mooo-moooo mooooooo

forehead, and a high, pyramidical white hump. These were his prominent
mooooooo, moo m mooo, moooooooooo moooo mooo. Moooo mooo moo moooooooo

features; the tokens whereby, even in the limitless, uncharted seas, he
mooooooo; moo mooooo moooooo, mooo mo moo moooooooo, moooooooo mooo, mo

revealed his identity, at a long distance, to those who knew him.
mooooooo moo mooooooo, mo m mooo mooooooo, mo moooo moo mooo moo.




The rest of his body was so streaked, and spotted, and marbled with
Moo mooo mo moo mooo moo mo mooooooo, moo moooooo, moo moooooo mooo

the same shrouded hue, that, in the end, he had gained his distinctive
moo mooo mooooooo moo, mooo, mo moo moo, mo moo mooooo moo moooooooooo

appellation of the White Whale; a name, indeed, literally justified by
moooooooooo mo moo Moooo Moooo; m mooo, mooooo, moooooooo moooooooo mo

his vivid aspect, when seen gliding at high noon through a dark blue
moo moooo mooooo, mooo mooo moooooo mo mooo mooo moooooo m mooo mooo

sea, leaving a milky-way wake of creamy foam, all spangled with golden
moo, moooooo m moooo-moo mooo mo mooooo mooo, moo mooooooo mooo mooooo

gleamings.
moooooooo.




Nor was it his unwonted magnitude, nor his remarkable hue, nor yet his
Moo moo mo moo mooooooo moooooooo, moo moo mooooooooo moo, moo moo moo

deformed lower jaw, that so much invested the whale with natural terror,
mooooooo moooo moo, mooo mo mooo mooooooo moo moooo mooo moooooo mooooo,

as that unexampled, intelligent malignity which, according to specific
mo mooo mooooooooo, moooooooooo moooooooo moooo, moooooooo mo mooooooo

accounts, he had over and over again evinced in his assaults. More than
mooooooo, mo moo mooo moo mooo moooo moooooo mo moo mooooooo. Mooo mooo

all, his treacherous retreats struck more of dismay than perhaps aught
moo, moo moooooooooo mooooooo mooooo mooo mo mooooo mooo moooooo moooo

else. For, when swimming before his exulting pursuers, with every
mooo. Moo, mooo mooooooo mooooo moo mooooooo mooooooo, mooo moooo

apparent symptom of alarm, he had several times been known to turn
mooooooo moooooo mo moooo, mo moo moooooo moooo mooo moooo mo mooo

round suddenly, and, bearing down upon them, either stave their boats to
moooo mooooooo, moo, moooooo mooo mooo mooo, mooooo moooo moooo moooo mo

splinters, or drive them back in consternation to their ship.
moooooooo, mo moooo mooo mooo mo moooooooooooo mo moooo mooo.




Already several fatalities had attended his chase. But though similar
Moooooo moooooo mooooooooo moo mooooooo moo moooo. Moo mooooo moooooo

disasters, however little bruited ashore, were by no means unusual
moooooooo, moooooo mooooo moooooo mooooo, mooo mo mo moooo moooooo

in the fishery; yet, in most instances, such seemed the White Whale's
mo moo moooooo; moo, mo mooo moooooooo, mooo mooooo moo Moooo Moooo'm

infernal aforethought of ferocity, that every dismembering or death
mooooooo mooooooooooo mo mooooooo, mooo moooo mooooooooooo mo moooo

that he caused, was not wholly regarded as having been inflicted by an
mooo mo mooooo, moo moo mooooo mooooooo mo mooooo mooo moooooooo mo mo

unintelligent agent.
moooooooooooo moooo.




Judge, then, to what pitches of inflamed, distracted fury the minds of
Moooo, mooo, mo mooo moooooo mo mooooooo, mooooooooo mooo moo moooo mo

his more desperate hunters were impelled, when amid the chips of chewed
moo mooo moooooooo moooooo mooo mooooooo, mooo mooo moo moooo mo mooooo

boats, and the sinking limbs of torn comrades, they swam out of the
moooo, moo moo moooooo moooo mo mooo mooooooo, mooo mooo moo mo moo

white curds of the whale's direful wrath into the serene, exasperating
moooo moooo mo moo moooo'm moooooo moooo mooo moo mooooo, mooooooooooo

sunlight, that smiled on, as if at a birth or a bridal.
mooooooo, mooo mooooo mo, mo mo mo m moooo mo m mooooo.




His three boats stove around him, and oars and men both whirling in the
Moo moooo moooo moooo mooooo moo, moo mooo moo moo mooo mooooooo mo moo

eddies; one captain, seizing the line-knife from his broken prow, had
mooooo; moo moooooo, moooooo moo mooo-moooo mooo moo mooooo mooo, moo

dashed at the whale, as an Arkansas duellist at his foe, blindly seeking
mooooo mo moo moooo, mo mo Mooooooo mooooooo mo moo moo, moooooo moooooo

with a six inch blade to reach the fathom-deep life of the whale.
mooo m moo mooo moooo mo moooo moo mooooo-mooo mooo mo moo moooo.

That captain was Ahab. And then it was, that suddenly sweeping his
Mooo moooooo moo Mooo. Moo mooo mo moo, mooo mooooooo mooooooo moo

sickle-shaped lower jaw beneath him, Moby Dick had reaped away Ahab's
mooooo-mooooo moooo moo moooooo moo, Mooo Mooo moo mooooo mooo Mooo'm

leg, as a mower a blade of grass in the field. No turbaned Turk, no
moo, mo m moooo m moooo mo moooo mo moo moooo. Mo mooooooo Mooo, mo

hired Venetian or Malay, could have smote him with more seeming malice.
moooo Mooooooo mo Moooo, moooo mooo moooo moo mooo mooo moooooo mooooo.

Small reason was there to doubt, then, that ever since that almost fatal
Moooo mooooo moo moooo mo moooo, mooo, mooo mooo moooo mooo mooooo moooo

encounter, Ahab had cherished a wild vindictiveness against the whale,
moooooooo, Mooo moo moooooooo m mooo mooooooooooooo moooooo moo moooo,

all the more fell for that in his frantic morbidness he at last came
moo moo mooo mooo moo mooo mo moo moooooo mooooooooo mo mo mooo mooo

to identify with him, not only all his bodily woes, but all his
mo mooooooo mooo moo, moo mooo moo moo mooooo mooo, moo moo moo

intellectual and spiritual exasperations. The White Whale swam before
mooooooooooo moo moooooooo moooooooooooo. Moo Moooo Moooo mooo mooooo

him as the monomaniac incarnation of all those malicious agencies which
moo mo moo mooooooooo moooooooooo mo moo moooo moooooooo mooooooo moooo

some deep men feel eating in them, till they are left living on with
mooo mooo moo mooo mooooo mo mooo, mooo mooo moo mooo mooooo mo mooo

half a heart and half a lung. That intangible malignity which has been
mooo m moooo moo mooo m mooo. Mooo mooooooooo moooooooo moooo moo mooo

from the beginning; to whose dominion even the modern Christians ascribe
mooo moo moooooooo; mo moooo mooooooo mooo moo mooooo Mooooooooo moooooo

one-half of the worlds; which the ancient Ophites of the east reverenced
moo-mooo mo moo mooooo; moooo moo moooooo Moooooo mo moo mooo mooooooooo

in their statue devil;--Ahab did not fall down and worship it like them;
mo moooo mooooo moooo;--Mooo moo moo mooo mooo moo moooooo mo mooo mooo;

but deliriously transferring its idea to the abhorred white whale, he
moo moooooooooo mooooooooooo moo mooo mo moo mooooooo moooo moooo, mo

pitted himself, all mutilated, against it. All that most maddens and
mooooo moooooo, moo moooooooo, moooooo mo. Moo mooo mooo moooooo moo

torments; all that stirs up the lees of things; all truth with malice
mooooooo; moo mooo moooo mo moo mooo mo mooooo; moo moooo mooo mooooo

in it; all that cracks the sinews and cakes the brain; all the subtle
mo mo; moo mooo mooooo moo mooooo moo moooo moo moooo; moo moo mooooo

demonisms of life and thought; all evil, to crazy Ahab, were visibly
moooooooo mo mooo moo moooooo; moo mooo, mo moooo Mooo, mooo moooooo

personified, and made practically assailable in Moby Dick. He piled upon
moooooooooo, moo mooo moooooooooo mooooooooo mo Mooo Mooo. Mo moooo mooo

the whale's white hump the sum of all the general rage and hate felt
moo moooo'm moooo mooo moo moo mo moo moo moooooo mooo moo mooo mooo

by his whole race from Adam down; and then, as if his chest had been a
mo moo moooo mooo mooo Mooo mooo; moo mooo, mo mo moo moooo moo mooo m

mortar, he burst his hot heart's shell upon it.
mooooo, mo moooo moo moo moooo'm moooo mooo mo.




It is not probable that this monomania in him took its instant rise at
Mo mo moo mooooooo mooo mooo moooooooo mo moo mooo moo moooooo mooo mo

the precise time of his bodily dismemberment. Then, in darting at the
moo moooooo mooo mo moo mooooo moooooooooooo. Mooo, mo moooooo mo moo

monster, knife in hand, he had but given loose to a sudden, passionate,
moooooo, moooo mo mooo, mo moo moo moooo moooo mo m mooooo, mooooooooo,

corporal animosity; and when he received the stroke that tore him, he
mooooooo moooooooo; moo mooo mo mooooooo moo mooooo mooo mooo moo, mo

probably but felt the agonizing bodily laceration, but nothing more.
mooooooo moo mooo moo moooooooo mooooo mooooooooo, moo moooooo mooo.

Yet, when by this collision forced to turn towards home, and for long
Moo, mooo mo mooo moooooooo mooooo mo mooo moooooo mooo, moo moo mooo

months of days and weeks, Ahab and anguish lay stretched together in one
mooooo mo mooo moo moooo, Mooo moo moooooo moo moooooooo mooooooo mo moo

hammock, rounding in mid winter that dreary, howling Patagonian Cape;
moooooo, mooooooo mo moo mooooo mooo mooooo, moooooo Mooooooooo Mooo;

then it was, that his torn body and gashed soul bled into one another;
mooo mo moo, mooo moo mooo mooo moo mooooo mooo mooo mooo moo moooooo;

and so interfusing, made him mad. That it was only then, on the homeward
moo mo moooooooooo, mooo moo moo. Mooo mo moo mooo mooo, mo moo mooooooo

voyage, after the encounter, that the final monomania seized him, seems
mooooo, moooo moo moooooooo, mooo moo moooo moooooooo mooooo moo, moooo

all but certain from the fact that, at intervals during the passage,
moo moo moooooo mooo moo mooo mooo, mo moooooooo mooooo moo moooooo,

he was a raving lunatic; and, though unlimbed of a leg, yet such vital
mo moo m mooooo moooooo; moo, mooooo mooooooo mo m moo, moo mooo moooo

strength yet lurked in his Egyptian chest, and was moreover intensified
mooooooo moo mooooo mo moo Mooooooo moooo, moo moo mooooooo moooooooooo

by his delirium, that his mates were forced to lace him fast, even
mo moo mooooooo, mooo moo moooo mooo mooooo mo mooo moo mooo, mooo

there, as he sailed, raving in his hammock. In a strait-jacket, he swung
moooo, mo mo mooooo, mooooo mo moo moooooo. Mo m mooooo-mooooo, mo moooo

to the mad rockings of the gales. And, when running into more sufferable
mo moo moo mooooooo mo moo moooo. Moo, mooo moooooo mooo mooo mooooooooo

latitudes, the ship, with mild stun'sails spread, floated across the
moooooooo, moo mooo, mooo mooo mooo'moooo mooooo, moooooo mooooo moo

tranquil tropics, and, to all appearances, the old man's delirium seemed
mooooooo moooooo, moo, mo moo moooooooooo, moo moo moo'm mooooooo mooooo

left behind him with the Cape Horn swells, and he came forth from his
mooo mooooo moo mooo moo Mooo Mooo mooooo, moo mo mooo moooo mooo moo

dark den into the blessed light and air; even then, when he bore that
mooo moo mooo moo moooooo moooo moo moo; mooo mooo, mooo mo mooo mooo

firm, collected front, however pale, and issued his calm orders once
mooo, moooooooo moooo, moooooo mooo, moo mooooo moo mooo mooooo mooo

again; and his mates thanked God the direful madness was now gone; even
moooo; moo moo moooo moooooo Moo moo moooooo moooooo moo moo mooo; mooo

then, Ahab, in his hidden self, raved on. Human madness is oftentimes a
mooo, Mooo, mo moo mooooo mooo, moooo mo. Moooo moooooo mo mooooooooo m

cunning and most feline thing. When you think it fled, it may have but
moooooo moo mooo mooooo moooo. Mooo moo moooo mo mooo, mo moo mooo moo

become transfigured into some still subtler form. Ahab's full lunacy
mooooo mooooooooooo mooo mooo moooo moooooo mooo. Mooo'm mooo mooooo

subsided not, but deepeningly contracted; like the unabated Hudson,
mooooooo moo, moo moooooooooo mooooooooo; mooo moo mooooooo Mooooo,

when that noble Northman flows narrowly, but unfathomably through the
mooo mooo moooo Mooooooo moooo mooooooo, moo mooooooooooo moooooo moo

Highland gorge. But, as in his narrow-flowing monomania, not one jot of
Mooooooo moooo. Moo, mo mo moo mooooo-moooooo moooooooo, moo moo moo mo

Ahab's broad madness had been left behind; so in that broad madness, not
Mooo'm moooo moooooo moo mooo mooo mooooo; mo mo mooo moooo moooooo, moo

one jot of his great natural intellect had perished. That before living
moo moo mo moo moooo moooooo moooooooo moo mooooooo. Mooo mooooo mooooo

agent, now became the living instrument. If such a furious trope may
moooo, moo mooooo moo mooooo mooooooooo. Mo mooo m moooooo moooo moo

stand, his special lunacy stormed his general sanity, and carried it,
moooo, moo moooooo mooooo moooooo moo moooooo mooooo, moo moooooo mo,

and turned all its concentred cannon upon its own mad mark; so that far
moo mooooo moo moo mooooooooo mooooo mooo moo moo moo mooo; mo mooo moo

from having lost his strength, Ahab, to that one end, did now possess a
mooo mooooo mooo moo mooooooo, Mooo, mo mooo moo moo, moo moo moooooo m

thousand fold more potency than ever he had sanely brought to bear upon
mooooooo mooo mooo moooooo mooo mooo mo moo mooooo moooooo mo mooo mooo

any one reasonable object.
moo moo mooooooooo mooooo.




This is much; yet Ahab's larger, darker, deeper part remains unhinted.
Mooo mo mooo; moo Mooo'm mooooo, mooooo, mooooo mooo moooooo mooooooo.

But vain to popularize profundities, and all truth is profound. Winding
Moo mooo mo mooooooooo mooooooooooo, moo moo moooo mo mooooooo. Moooooo

far down from within the very heart of this spiked Hotel de Cluny where
moo mooo mooo mooooo moo mooo moooo mo mooo mooooo Moooo mo Moooo moooo

we here stand--however grand and wonderful, now quit it;--and take your
mo mooo moooo--moooooo moooo moo moooooooo, moo mooo mo;--moo mooo mooo

way, ye nobler, sadder souls, to those vast Roman halls of Thermes;
moo, mo mooooo, mooooo moooo, mo moooo mooo Moooo moooo mo Moooooo;

where far beneath the fantastic towers of man's upper earth, his root
moooo moo moooooo moo moooooooo mooooo mo moo'm moooo moooo, moo mooo

of grandeur, his whole awful essence sits in bearded state; an antique
mo mooooooo, moo moooo moooo moooooo mooo mo moooooo moooo; mo moooooo

buried beneath antiquities, and throned on torsoes! So with a broken
mooooo moooooo moooooooooo, moo moooooo mo moooooo! Mo mooo m mooooo

throne, the great gods mock that captive king; so like a Caryatid, he
mooooo, moo moooo mooo mooo mooo moooooo mooo; mo mooo m Mooooooo, mo

patient sits, upholding on his frozen brow the piled entablatures of
moooooo mooo, moooooooo mo moo mooooo mooo moo moooo mooooooooooo mo

ages. Wind ye down there, ye prouder, sadder souls! question that proud,
mooo. Mooo mo mooo moooo, mo moooooo, mooooo moooo! mooooooo mooo moooo,

sad king! A family likeness! aye, he did beget ye, ye young exiled
moo mooo! M mooooo mooooooo! moo, mo moo moooo mo, mo moooo mooooo

royalties; and from your grim sire only will the old State-secret come.
moooooooo; moo mooo mooo mooo mooo mooo mooo moo moo Moooo-mooooo mooo.




Now, in his heart, Ahab had some glimpse of this, namely: all my means
Moo, mo moo moooo, Mooo moo mooo moooooo mo mooo, mooooo: moo mo moooo

are sane, my motive and my object mad. Yet without power to kill, or
moo mooo, mo mooooo moo mo mooooo moo. Moo moooooo moooo mo mooo, mo

change, or shun the fact; he likewise knew that to mankind he did long
mooooo, mo mooo moo mooo; mo mooooooo mooo mooo mo moooooo mo moo mooo

dissemble; in some sort, did still. But that thing of his dissembling
moooooooo; mo mooo mooo, moo moooo. Moo mooo moooo mo moo moooooooooo

was only subject to his perceptibility, not to his will determinate.
moo mooo moooooo mo moo mooooooooooooo, moo mo moo mooo moooooooooo.

Nevertheless, so well did he succeed in that dissembling, that when
Mooooooooooo, mo mooo moo mo moooooo mo mooo moooooooooo, mooo mooo

with ivory leg he stepped ashore at last, no Nantucketer thought him
mooo moooo moo mo moooooo mooooo mo mooo, mo Moooooooooo moooooo moo

otherwise than but naturally grieved, and that to the quick, with the
moooooooo mooo moo moooooooo moooooo, moo mooo mo moo moooo, mooo moo

terrible casualty which had overtaken him.
mooooooo mooooooo moooo moo moooooooo moo.




The report of his undeniable delirium at sea was likewise popularly
Moo mooooo mo moo mooooooooo mooooooo mo moo moo mooooooo moooooooo

ascribed to a kindred cause. And so too, all the added moodiness which
mooooooo mo m moooooo moooo. Moo mo moo, moo moo moooo moooooooo moooo

always afterwards, to the very day of sailing in the Pequod on the
mooooo mooooooooo, mo moo mooo moo mo moooooo mo moo Mooooo mo moo

present voyage, sat brooding on his brow. Nor is it so very unlikely,
moooooo mooooo, moo mooooooo mo moo mooo. Moo mo mo mo mooo mooooooo,

that far from distrusting his fitness for another whaling voyage, on
mooo moo mooo moooooooooo moo moooooo moo moooooo moooooo mooooo, mo

account of such dark symptoms, the calculating people of that prudent
moooooo mo mooo mooo mooooooo, moo moooooooooo mooooo mo mooo moooooo

isle were inclined to harbor the conceit, that for those very reasons he
mooo mooo mooooooo mo mooooo moo moooooo, mooo moo moooo mooo moooooo mo

was all the better qualified and set on edge, for a pursuit so full
moo moo moo mooooo moooooooo moo moo mo mooo, moo m moooooo mo mooo

of rage and wildness as the bloody hunt of whales. Gnawed within and
mo mooo moo mooooooo mo moo mooooo mooo mo mooooo. Mooooo mooooo moo

scorched without, with the infixed, unrelenting fangs of some incurable
mooooooo moooooo, mooo moo moooooo, moooooooooo moooo mo mooo moooooooo

idea; such an one, could he be found, would seem the very man to dart
mooo; mooo mo moo, moooo mo mo moooo, moooo mooo moo mooo moo mo mooo

his iron and lift his lance against the most appalling of all brutes.
moo mooo moo mooo moo moooo moooooo moo mooo moooooooo mo moo mooooo.

Or, if for any reason thought to be corporeally incapacitated for that,
Mo, mo moo moo mooooo moooooo mo mo moooooooooo moooooooooooo moo mooo,

yet such an one would seem superlatively competent to cheer and howl on
moo mooo mo moo moooo mooo moooooooooooo moooooooo mo moooo moo mooo mo

his underlings to the attack. But be all this as it may, certain it is,
moo mooooooooo mo moo mooooo. Moo mo moo mooo mo mo moo, moooooo mo mo,

that with the mad secret of his unabated rage bolted up and keyed in
mooo mooo moo moo mooooo mo moo mooooooo mooo mooooo mo moo moooo mo

him, Ahab had purposely sailed upon the present voyage with the one only
moo, Mooo moo moooooooo mooooo mooo moo moooooo mooooo mooo moo moo mooo

and all-engrossing object of hunting the White Whale. Had any one of his
moo moo-mooooooooo mooooo mo moooooo moo Moooo Moooo. Moo moo moo mo moo

old acquaintances on shore but half dreamed of what was lurking in him
moo moooooooooooo mo moooo moo mooo moooooo mo mooo moo moooooo mo moo

then, how soon would their aghast and righteous souls have wrenched the
mooo, moo mooo moooo moooo mooooo moo moooooooo moooo mooo mooooooo moo

ship from such a fiendish man! They were bent on profitable cruises, the
mooo mooo mooo m mooooooo moo! Mooo mooo mooo mo mooooooooo moooooo, moo

profit to be counted down in dollars from the mint. He was intent on an
mooooo mo mo moooooo mooo mo moooooo mooo moo mooo. Mo moo mooooo mo mo

audacious, immitigable, and supernatural revenge.
moooooooo, moooooooooo, moo mooooooooooo moooooo.




Here, then, was this grey-headed, ungodly old man, chasing with curses a
Mooo, mooo, moo mooo mooo-mooooo, moooooo moo moo, moooooo mooo mooooo m

Job's whale round the world, at the head of a crew, too, chiefly made
Moo'm moooo moooo moo moooo, mo moo mooo mo m mooo, moo, moooooo mooo

up of mongrel renegades, and castaways, and cannibals--morally enfeebled
mo mo moooooo moooooooo, moo moooooooo, moo moooooooo--moooooo moooooooo

also, by the incompetence of mere unaided virtue or right-mindedness in
mooo, mo moo mooooooooooo mo mooo moooooo mooooo mo moooo-mooooooooo mo

Starbuck, the invunerable jollity of indifference and recklessness in
Mooooooo, moo moooooooooo moooooo mo mooooooooooo moo mooooooooooo mo

Stubb, and the pervading mediocrity in Flask. Such a crew, so officered,
Moooo, moo moo moooooooo mooooooooo mo Moooo. Mooo m mooo, mo moooooooo,

seemed specially picked and packed by some infernal fatality to help him
mooooo moooooooo mooooo moo mooooo mo mooo mooooooo mooooooo mo mooo moo

to his monomaniac revenge. How it was that they so aboundingly responded
mo moo mooooooooo moooooo. Moo mo moo mooo mooo mo moooooooooo moooooooo

to the old man's ire--by what evil magic their souls were possessed,
mo moo moo moo'm moo--mo mooo mooo moooo moooo moooo mooo moooooooo,

that at times his hate seemed almost theirs; the White Whale as much
mooo mo moooo moo mooo mooooo mooooo mooooo; moo Moooo Moooo mo mooo

their insufferable foe as his; how all this came to be--what the White
moooo mooooooooooo moo mo moo; moo moo mooo mooo mo mo--mooo moo Moooo

Whale was to them, or how to their unconscious understandings, also, in
Moooo moo mo mooo, mo moo mo moooo moooooooooo mooooooooooooo, mooo, mo

some dim, unsuspected way, he might have seemed the gliding great demon
mooo moo, moooooooooo moo, mo moooo mooo mooooo moo moooooo moooo moooo

of the seas of life,--all this to explain, would be to dive deeper than
mo moo mooo mo mooo,--moo mooo mo moooooo, moooo mo mo mooo mooooo mooo

Ishmael can go. The subterranean miner that works in us all, how can one
Moooooo moo mo. Moo mooooooooooo moooo mooo moooo mo mo moo, moo moo moo

tell whither leads his shaft by the ever shifting, muffled sound of his
mooo moooooo moooo moo moooo mo moo mooo mooooooo, moooooo moooo mo moo

pick? Who does not feel the irresistible arm drag? What skiff in tow
mooo? Moo mooo moo mooo moo mooooooooooo moo mooo? Mooo moooo mo moo

of a seventy-four can stand still? For one, I gave myself up to the
mo m moooooo-mooo moo moooo moooo? Moo moo, M mooo mooooo mo mo moo

abandonment of the time and the place; but while yet all a-rush to
moooooooooo mo moo mooo moo moo moooo; moo moooo moo moo m-mooo mo

encounter the whale, could see naught in that brute but the deadliest
moooooooo moo moooo, moooo moo mooooo mo mooo moooo moo moo moooooooo

ill.
moo.










CHAPTER 42. The Whiteness of The Whale.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Moooooooo mo Moo Moooo.







What the white whale was to Ahab, has been hinted; what, at times, he
Mooo moo moooo moooo moo mo Mooo, moo mooo mooooo; mooo, mo moooo, mo

was to me, as yet remains unsaid.
moo mo mo, mo moo moooooo mooooo.




Aside from those more obvious considerations touching Moby Dick, which
Moooo mooo moooo mooo moooooo mooooooooooooo mooooooo Mooo Mooo, moooo

could not but occasionally awaken in any man's soul some alarm, there
moooo moo moo mooooooooooo mooooo mo moo moo'm mooo mooo moooo, moooo

was another thought, or rather vague, nameless horror concerning him,
moo moooooo moooooo, mo mooooo moooo, mooooooo mooooo mooooooooo moo,

which at times by its intensity completely overpowered all the rest; and
moooo mo moooo mo moo moooooooo mooooooooo moooooooooo moo moo mooo; moo

yet so mystical and well nigh ineffable was it, that I almost despair of
moo mo mooooooo moo mooo mooo moooooooo moo mo, mooo M mooooo moooooo mo

putting it in a comprehensible form. It was the whiteness of the whale
moooooo mo mo m mooooooooooooo mooo. Mo moo moo moooooooo mo moo moooo

that above all things appalled me. But how can I hope to explain myself
mooo moooo moo mooooo mooooooo mo. Moo moo moo M mooo mo moooooo mooooo

here; and yet, in some dim, random way, explain myself I must, else all
mooo; moo moo, mo mooo moo, mooooo moo, moooooo mooooo M mooo, mooo moo

these chapters might be naught.
moooo mooooooo moooo mo mooooo.




Though in many natural objects, whiteness refiningly enhances beauty, as
Mooooo mo mooo moooooo moooooo, moooooooo mooooooooo mooooooo mooooo, mo

if imparting some special virtue of its own, as in marbles, japonicas,
mo moooooooo mooo moooooo mooooo mo moo moo, mo mo moooooo, moooooooo,

and pearls; and though various nations have in some way recognised a
moo mooooo; moo mooooo moooooo moooooo mooo mo mooo moo mooooooooo m

certain royal preeminence in this hue; even the barbaric, grand old
moooooo moooo moooooooooo mo mooo moo; mooo moo mooooooo, moooo moo

kings of Pegu placing the title "Lord of the White Elephants" above all
moooo mo Mooo moooooo moo moooo "Mooo mo moo Moooo Moooooooo" moooo moo

their other magniloquent ascriptions of dominion; and the modern kings
moooo moooo mooooooooooo moooooooooo mo mooooooo; moo moo mooooo moooo

of Siam unfurling the same snow-white quadruped in the royal standard;
mo Mooo moooooooo moo mooo mooo-moooo moooooooo mo moo moooo mooooooo;

and the Hanoverian flag bearing the one figure of a snow-white charger;
moo moo Mooooooooo mooo moooooo moo moo mooooo mo m mooo-moooo moooooo;

and the great Austrian Empire, Caesarian, heir to overlording Rome,
moo moo moooo Mooooooo Mooooo, Moooooooo, mooo mo moooooooooo Mooo,

having for the imperial colour the same imperial hue; and though this
mooooo moo moo mooooooo mooooo moo mooo mooooooo moo; moo mooooo mooo

pre-eminence in it applies to the human race itself, giving the white
moo-mooooooo mo mo moooooo mo moo moooo mooo mooooo, mooooo moo moooo

man ideal mastership over every dusky tribe; and though, besides, all
moo moooo mooooooooo mooo moooo moooo moooo; moo mooooo, moooooo, moo

this, whiteness has been even made significant of gladness, for among
mooo, moooooooo moo mooo mooo mooo moooooooooo mo mooooooo, moo moooo

the Romans a white stone marked a joyful day; and though in other mortal
moo Mooooo m moooo moooo mooooo m mooooo moo; moo mooooo mo moooo mooooo

sympathies and symbolizings, this same hue is made the emblem of many
mooooooooo moo mooooooooooo, mooo mooo moo mo mooo moo mooooo mo mooo

touching, noble things--the innocence of brides, the benignity of age;
mooooooo, moooo mooooo--moo moooooooo mo mooooo, moo moooooooo mo moo;

though among the Red Men of America the giving of the white belt
mooooo moooo moo Moo Moo mo Moooooo moo mooooo mo moo moooo mooo

of wampum was the deepest pledge of honour; though in many climes,
mo mooooo moo moo moooooo mooooo mo mooooo; mooooo mo mooo mooooo,

whiteness typifies the majesty of Justice in the ermine of the Judge,
moooooooo mooooooo moo moooooo mo Moooooo mo moo mooooo mo moo Moooo,

and contributes to the daily state of kings and queens drawn by
moo moooooooooo mo moo moooo moooo mo moooo moo mooooo moooo mo

milk-white steeds; though even in the higher mysteries of the most
mooo-moooo mooooo; mooooo mooo mo moo mooooo moooooooo mo moo mooo

august religions it has been made the symbol of the divine spotlessness
mooooo moooooooo mo moo mooo mooo moo mooooo mo moo mooooo mooooooooooo

and power; by the Persian fire worshippers, the white forked flame being
moo moooo; mo moo Moooooo mooo moooooooooo, moo moooo mooooo moooo moooo

held the holiest on the altar; and in the Greek mythologies, Great Jove
mooo moo moooooo mo moo moooo; moo mo moo Moooo moooooooooo, Moooo Mooo

himself being made incarnate in a snow-white bull; and though to the
moooooo moooo mooo moooooooo mo m mooo-moooo mooo; moo mooooo mo moo

noble Iroquois, the midwinter sacrifice of the sacred White Dog was
moooo Mooooooo, moo moooooooo moooooooo mo moo mooooo Moooo Moo moo

by far the holiest festival of their theology, that spotless, faithful
mo moo moo moooooo mooooooo mo moooo mooooooo, mooo mooooooo, mooooooo

creature being held the purest envoy they could send to the Great Spirit
mooooooo moooo mooo moo mooooo moooo mooo moooo mooo mo moo Moooo Mooooo

with the annual tidings of their own fidelity; and though directly from
mooo moo mooooo moooooo mo moooo moo mooooooo; moo mooooo mooooooo mooo

the Latin word for white, all Christian priests derive the name of
moo Moooo mooo moo moooo, moo Moooooooo moooooo mooooo moo mooo mo

one part of their sacred vesture, the alb or tunic, worn beneath the
moo mooo mo moooo mooooo moooooo, moo moo mo moooo, mooo moooooo moo

cassock; and though among the holy pomps of the Romish faith, white is
moooooo; moo mooooo moooo moo mooo moooo mo moo Mooooo moooo, moooo mo

specially employed in the celebration of the Passion of our Lord; though
moooooooo mooooooo mo moo moooooooooo mo moo Moooooo mo moo Mooo; mooooo

in the Vision of St. John, white robes are given to the redeemed, and
mo moo Mooooo mo Mo. Mooo, moooo moooo moo moooo mo moo mooooooo, moo

the four-and-twenty elders stand clothed in white before the great-white
moo mooo-moo-mooooo mooooo moooo moooooo mo moooo mooooo moo moooo-moooo

throne, and the Holy One that sitteth there white like wool; yet for all
mooooo, moo moo Mooo Moo mooo moooooo moooo moooo mooo mooo; moo moo moo

these accumulated associations, with whatever is sweet, and honourable,
moooo moooooooooo mooooooooooo, mooo mooooooo mo moooo, moo mooooooooo,

and sublime, there yet lurks an elusive something in the innermost idea
moo moooooo, moooo moo moooo mo moooooo moooooooo mo moo moooooooo mooo

of this hue, which strikes more of panic to the soul than that redness
mo mooo moo, moooo moooooo mooo mo moooo mo moo mooo mooo mooo moooooo

which affrights in blood.
moooo moooooooo mo moooo.




This elusive quality it is, which causes the thought of whiteness, when
Mooo moooooo moooooo mo mo, moooo mooooo moo moooooo mo moooooooo, mooo

divorced from more kindly associations, and coupled with any object
mooooooo mooo mooo mooooo mooooooooooo, moo moooooo mooo moo mooooo

terrible in itself, to heighten that terror to the furthest bounds.
mooooooo mo mooooo, mo mooooooo mooo mooooo mo moo mooooooo mooooo.

Witness the white bear of the poles, and the white shark of the tropics;
Moooooo moo moooo mooo mo moo moooo, moo moo moooo moooo mo moo moooooo;

what but their smooth, flaky whiteness makes them the transcendent
mooo moo moooo mooooo, moooo moooooooo moooo mooo moo mooooooooooo

horrors they are? That ghastly whiteness it is which imparts such an
moooooo mooo moo? Mooo moooooo moooooooo mo mo moooo moooooo mooo mo

abhorrent mildness, even more loathsome than terrific, to the dumb
moooooooo mooooooo, mooo mooo moooooooo mooo mooooooo, mo moo mooo

gloating of their aspect. So that not the fierce-fanged tiger in his
mooooooo mo moooo mooooo. Mo mooo moo moo mooooo-mooooo moooo mo moo

heraldic coat can so stagger courage as the white-shrouded bear or
mooooooo mooo moo mo moooooo moooooo mo moo moooo-mooooooo mooo mo

shark.*
moooo.*







*With reference to the Polar bear, it may possibly be urged by him
*Mooo moooooooo mo moo Moooo mooo, mo moo mooooooo mo moooo mo moo

who would fain go still deeper into this matter, that it is not
moo moooo mooo mo moooo mooooo mooo mooo mooooo, mooo mo mo moo

the whiteness, separately regarded, which heightens the intolerable
moo moooooooo, mooooooooo mooooooo, moooo moooooooo moo moooooooooo

hideousness of that brute; for, analysed, that heightened hideousness,
moooooooooo mo mooo moooo; moo, mooooooo, mooo mooooooooo moooooooooo,

it might be said, only rises from the circumstance, that the
mo moooo mo mooo, mooo moooo mooo moo mooooooooooo, mooo moo

irresponsible ferociousness of the creature stands invested in the
moooooooooooo moooooooooooo mo moo mooooooo mooooo mooooooo mo moo

fleece of celestial innocence and love; and hence, by bringing together
mooooo mo moooooooo moooooooo moo mooo; moo moooo, mo mooooooo mooooooo

two such opposite emotions in our minds, the Polar bear frightens us
moo mooo mooooooo mooooooo mo moo moooo, moo Moooo mooo moooooooo mo

with so unnatural a contrast. But even assuming all this to be true;
mooo mo moooooooo m mooooooo. Moo mooo mooooooo moo mooo mo mo mooo;

yet, were it not for the whiteness, you would not have that intensified
moo, mooo mo moo moo moo moooooooo, moo moooo moo mooo mooo moooooooooo

terror.
mooooo.




As for the white shark, the white gliding ghostliness of repose in that
Mo moo moo moooo moooo, moo moooo moooooo moooooooooo mo mooooo mo mooo

creature, when beheld in his ordinary moods, strangely tallies with the
mooooooo, mooo mooooo mo moo mooooooo moooo, moooooooo moooooo mooo moo

same quality in the Polar quadruped. This peculiarity is most vividly
mooo moooooo mo moo Moooo moooooooo. Mooo moooooooooo mo mooo moooooo

hit by the French in the name they bestow upon that fish. The Romish
moo mo moo Mooooo mo moo mooo mooo mooooo mooo mooo mooo. Moo Mooooo

mass for the dead begins with "Requiem eternam" (eternal rest), whence
mooo moo moo mooo mooooo mooo "Moooooo moooooo" (moooooo mooo), mooooo

REQUIEM denominating the mass itself, and any other funeral music. Now,
MOOOOOO mooooooooooo moo mooo mooooo, moo moo moooo moooooo moooo. Moo,

in allusion to the white, silent stillness of death in this shark, and
mo mooooooo mo moo moooo, mooooo moooooooo mo moooo mo mooo moooo, moo

the mild deadliness of his habits, the French call him REQUIN.
moo mooo mooooooooo mo moo mooooo, moo Mooooo mooo moo MOOOOO.







Bethink thee of the albatross, whence come those clouds of spiritual
Moooooo mooo mo moo moooooooo, mooooo mooo moooo mooooo mo moooooooo

wonderment and pale dread, in which that white phantom sails in all
mooooooooo moo mooo moooo, mo moooo mooo moooo moooooo moooo mo moo

imaginations? Not Coleridge first threw that spell; but God's great,
mooooooooooo? Moo Moooooooo moooo moooo mooo moooo; moo Moo'm moooo,

unflattering laureate, Nature.*
mooooooooooo mooooooo, Mooooo.*







*I remember the first albatross I ever saw. It was during a prolonged
*M mooooooo moo moooo moooooooo M mooo moo. Mo moo mooooo m moooooooo

gale, in waters hard upon the Antarctic seas. From my forenoon watch
mooo, mo mooooo mooo mooo moo Moooooooo mooo. Mooo mo mooooooo moooo

below, I ascended to the overclouded deck; and there, dashed upon the
moooo, M mooooooo mo moo moooooooooo mooo; moo moooo, mooooo mooo moo

main hatches, I saw a regal, feathery thing of unspotted whiteness, and
mooo moooooo, M moo m moooo, mooooooo moooo mo moooooooo moooooooo, moo

with a hooked, Roman bill sublime. At intervals, it arched forth
mooo m mooooo, Moooo mooo moooooo. Mo moooooooo, mo mooooo moooo

its vast archangel wings, as if to embrace some holy ark. Wondrous
moo mooo moooooooo moooo, mo mo mo moooooo mooo mooo moo. Mooooooo

flutterings and throbbings shook it. Though bodily unharmed, it uttered
moooooooooo moo mooooooooo moooo mo. Mooooo mooooo mooooooo, mo moooooo

cries, as some king's ghost in supernatural distress. Through its
moooo, mo mooo mooo'm moooo mo mooooooooooo mooooooo. Moooooo moo

inexpressible, strange eyes, methought I peeped to secrets which took
moooooooooooo, moooooo mooo, moooooooo M mooooo mo moooooo moooo mooo

hold of God. As Abraham before the angels, I bowed myself; the white
mooo mo Moo. Mo Moooooo mooooo moo mooooo, M moooo mooooo; moo moooo

thing was so white, its wings so wide, and in those for ever exiled
moooo moo mo moooo, moo moooo mo mooo, moo mo moooo moo mooo mooooo

waters, I had lost the miserable warping memories of traditions and of
mooooo, M moo mooo moo moooooooo moooooo mooooooo mo mooooooooo moo mo

towns. Long I gazed at that prodigy of plumage. I cannot tell, can only
moooo. Mooo M moooo mo mooo moooooo mo moooooo. M mooooo mooo, moo mooo

hint, the things that darted through me then. But at last I awoke; and
mooo, moo mooooo mooo mooooo moooooo mo mooo. Moo mo mooo M moooo; moo

turning, asked a sailor what bird was this. A goney, he replied. Goney!
moooooo, moooo m mooooo mooo mooo moo mooo. M moooo, mo moooooo. Moooo!

never had heard that name before; is it conceivable that this glorious
moooo moo moooo mooo mooo mooooo; mo mo moooooooooo mooo mooo mooooooo

thing is utterly unknown to men ashore! never! But some time after, I
moooo mo moooooo moooooo mo moo mooooo! moooo! Moo mooo mooo moooo, M

learned that goney was some seaman's name for albatross. So that by no
moooooo mooo moooo moo mooo mooooo'm mooo moo moooooooo. Mo mooo mo mo

possibility could Coleridge's wild Rhyme have had aught to do with those
moooooooooo moooo Moooooooo'm mooo Moooo mooo moo moooo mo mo mooo moooo

mystical impressions which were mine, when I saw that bird upon our
mooooooo moooooooooo moooo mooo mooo, mooo M moo mooo mooo mooo moo

deck. For neither had I then read the Rhyme, nor knew the bird to be
mooo. Moo moooooo moo M mooo mooo moo Moooo, moo mooo moo mooo mo mo

an albatross. Yet, in saying this, I do but indirectly burnish a little
mo moooooooo. Moo, mo mooooo mooo, M mo moo mooooooooo moooooo m mooooo

brighter the noble merit of the poem and the poet.
mooooooo moo moooo moooo mo moo mooo moo moo mooo.




I assert, then, that in the wondrous bodily whiteness of the bird
M mooooo, mooo, mooo mo moo mooooooo mooooo moooooooo mo moo mooo

chiefly lurks the secret of the spell; a truth the more evinced in this,
moooooo moooo moo mooooo mo moo moooo; m moooo moo mooo moooooo mo mooo,

that by a solecism of terms there are birds called grey albatrosses;
mooo mo m mooooooo mo moooo moooo moo moooo mooooo mooo moooooooooo;

and these I have frequently seen, but never with such emotions as when I
moo moooo M mooo mooooooooo mooo, moo moooo mooo mooo mooooooo mo mooo M

beheld the Antarctic fowl.
mooooo moo Moooooooo mooo.




But how had the mystic thing been caught? Whisper it not, and I will
Moo moo moo moo mooooo moooo mooo mooooo? Moooooo mo moo, moo M mooo

tell; with a treacherous hook and line, as the fowl floated on the sea.
mooo; mooo m moooooooooo mooo moo mooo, mo moo mooo moooooo mo moo moo.

At last the Captain made a postman of it; tying a lettered, leathern
Mo mooo moo Moooooo mooo m moooooo mo mo; moooo m mooooooo, mooooooo

tally round its neck, with the ship's time and place; and then letting
moooo moooo moo mooo, mooo moo mooo'm mooo moo moooo; moo mooo moooooo

it escape. But I doubt not, that leathern tally, meant for man, was
mo mooooo. Moo M moooo moo, mooo mooooooo moooo, moooo moo moo, moo

taken off in Heaven, when the white fowl flew to join the wing-folding,
moooo moo mo Mooooo, mooo moo moooo mooo mooo mo mooo moo mooo-moooooo,

the invoking, and adoring cherubim!
moo mooooooo, moo moooooo mooooooo!







Most famous in our Western annals and Indian traditions is that of
Mooo mooooo mo moo Moooooo mooooo moo Mooooo mooooooooo mo mooo mo

the White Steed of the Prairies; a magnificent milk-white charger,
moo Moooo Moooo mo moo Mooooooo; m moooooooooo mooo-moooo moooooo,

large-eyed, small-headed, bluff-chested, and with the dignity of a
moooo-mooo, moooo-mooooo, moooo-moooooo, moo mooo moo moooooo mo m

thousand monarchs in his lofty, overscorning carriage. He was the
mooooooo mooooooo mo moo moooo, mooooooooooo mooooooo. Mo moo moo

elected Xerxes of vast herds of wild horses, whose pastures in those
moooooo Mooooo mo mooo moooo mo mooo mooooo, moooo mooooooo mo moooo

days were only fenced by the Rocky Mountains and the Alleghanies. At
mooo mooo mooo mooooo mo moo Moooo Moooooooo moo moo Moooooooooo. Mo

their flaming head he westward trooped it like that chosen star which
moooo moooooo mooo mo mooooooo moooooo mo mooo mooo mooooo mooo moooo

every evening leads on the hosts of light. The flashing cascade of his
moooo moooooo moooo mo moo moooo mo moooo. Moo mooooooo moooooo mo moo

mane, the curving comet of his tail, invested him with housings more
mooo, moo moooooo moooo mo moo mooo, mooooooo moo mooo mooooooo mooo

resplendent than gold and silver-beaters could have furnished him. A
moooooooooo mooo mooo moo mooooo-moooooo moooo mooo moooooooo moo. M

most imperial and archangelical apparition of that unfallen, western
mooo mooooooo moo moooooooooooo mooooooooo mo mooo mooooooo, moooooo

world, which to the eyes of the old trappers and hunters revived the
moooo, moooo mo moo mooo mo moo moo mooooooo moo moooooo moooooo moo

glories of those primeval times when Adam walked majestic as a god,
moooooo mo moooo mooooooo moooo mooo Mooo mooooo mooooooo mo m moo,

bluff-browed and fearless as this mighty steed. Whether marching amid
moooo-mooooo moo mooooooo mo mooo mooooo moooo. Moooooo mooooooo mooo

his aides and marshals in the van of countless cohorts that endlessly
moo moooo moo mooooooo mo moo moo mo moooooooo moooooo mooo moooooooo

streamed it over the plains, like an Ohio; or whether with his
mooooooo mo mooo moo mooooo, mooo mo Mooo; mo moooooo mooo moo

circumambient subjects browsing all around at the horizon, the White
moooooooooooo mooooooo mooooooo moo mooooo mo moo moooooo, moo Moooo

Steed gallopingly reviewed them with warm nostrils reddening through his
Moooo moooooooooo mooooooo mooo mooo mooo mooooooo moooooooo moooooo moo

cool milkiness; in whatever aspect he presented himself, always to the
mooo moooooooo; mo mooooooo mooooo mo moooooooo moooooo, mooooo mo moo

bravest Indians he was the object of trembling reverence and awe. Nor
moooooo Moooooo mo moo moo mooooo mo moooooooo moooooooo moo moo. Moo

can it be questioned from what stands on legendary record of this noble
moo mo mo mooooooooo mooo mooo mooooo mo moooooooo mooooo mo mooo moooo

horse, that it was his spiritual whiteness chiefly, which so clothed him
moooo, mooo mo moo moo moooooooo moooooooo moooooo, moooo mo moooooo moo

with divineness; and that this divineness had that in it which, though
mooo mooooooooo; moo mooo mooo mooooooooo moo mooo mo mo moooo, mooooo

commanding worship, at the same time enforced a certain nameless terror.
mooooooooo moooooo, mo moo mooo mooo mooooooo m moooooo mooooooo mooooo.




But there are other instances where this whiteness loses all that
Moo moooo moo moooo moooooooo moooo mooo moooooooo moooo moo mooo

accessory and strange glory which invests it in the White Steed and
moooooooo moo moooooo moooo moooo moooooo mo mo moo Moooo Moooo moo

Albatross.
Moooooooo.




What is it that in the Albino man so peculiarly repels and often shocks
Mooo mo mo mooo mo moo Mooooo moo mo mooooooooo mooooo moo moooo mooooo

the eye, as that sometimes he is loathed by his own kith and kin! It
moo moo, mo mooo moooooooo mo mo moooooo mo moo moo mooo moo moo! Mo

is that whiteness which invests him, a thing expressed by the name
mo mooo moooooooo moooo moooooo moo, m moooo moooooooo mo moo mooo

he bears. The Albino is as well made as other men--has no substantive
mo moooo. Moo Mooooo mo mo mooo mooo mo moooo moo--moo mo moooooooooo

deformity--and yet this mere aspect of all-pervading whiteness makes him
moooooooo--moo moo mooo mooo mooooo mo moo-moooooooo moooooooo moooo moo

more strangely hideous than the ugliest abortion. Why should this be so?
mooo moooooooo moooooo mooo moo moooooo mooooooo. Moo mooooo mooo mo mo?




Nor, in quite other aspects, does Nature in her least palpable but
Moo, mo moooo moooo moooooo, mooo Mooooo mo moo moooo mooooooo moo

not the less malicious agencies, fail to enlist among her forces
moo moo mooo moooooooo mooooooo, mooo mo mooooo moooo moo mooooo

this crowning attribute of the terrible. From its snowy aspect, the
mooo mooooooo moooooooo mo moo mooooooo. Mooo moo moooo mooooo, moo

gauntleted ghost of the Southern Seas has been denominated the White
mooooooooo moooo mo moo Mooooooo Mooo moo mooo moooooooooo moo Moooo

Squall. Nor, in some historic instances, has the art of human malice
Mooooo. Moo, mo mooo mooooooo moooooooo, moo moo moo mo moooo mooooo

omitted so potent an auxiliary. How wildly it heightens the effect of
moooooo mo mooooo mo moooooooo. Moo mooooo mo moooooooo moo mooooo mo

that passage in Froissart, when, masked in the snowy symbol of their
mooo moooooo mo Moooooooo, mooo, mooooo mo moo moooo mooooo mo moooo

faction, the desperate White Hoods of Ghent murder their bailiff in the
moooooo, moo moooooooo Moooo Moooo mo Moooo mooooo moooo moooooo mo moo

market-place!
mooooo-moooo!




Nor, in some things, does the common, hereditary experience of all
Moo, mo mooo mooooo, mooo moo mooooo, mooooooooo mooooooooo mo moo

mankind fail to bear witness to the supernaturalism of this hue. It
moooooo mooo mo mooo moooooo mo moo moooooooooooooo mo mooo moo. Mo

cannot well be doubted, that the one visible quality in the aspect of
mooooo mooo mo moooooo, mooo moo moo moooooo moooooo mo moo mooooo mo

the dead which most appals the gazer, is the marble pallor lingering
moo mooo moooo mooo mooooo moo moooo, mo moo mooooo mooooo moooooooo

there; as if indeed that pallor were as much like the badge of
moooo; mo mo mooooo mooo mooooo mooo mo mooo mooo moo moooo mo

consternation in the other world, as of mortal trepidation here. And
moooooooooooo mo moo moooo moooo, mo mo mooooo moooooooooo mooo. Moo

from that pallor of the dead, we borrow the expressive hue of the shroud
mooo mooo mooooo mo moo mooo, mo mooooo moo mooooooooo moo mo moo mooooo

in which we wrap them. Nor even in our superstitions do we fail to
mo moooo mo mooo mooo. Moo mooo mo moo moooooooooooo mo mo mooo mo

throw the same snowy mantle round our phantoms; all ghosts rising in a
moooo moo mooo moooo mooooo moooo moo mooooooo; moo mooooo mooooo mo m

milk-white fog--Yea, while these terrors seize us, let us add, that even
mooo-moooo moo--Moo, moooo moooo moooooo moooo mo, moo mo moo, mooo mooo

the king of terrors, when personified by the evangelist, rides on his
moo mooo mo moooooo, mooo moooooooooo mo moo mooooooooo, moooo mo moo

pallid horse.
mooooo moooo.




Therefore, in his other moods, symbolize whatever grand or gracious
Moooooooo, mo moo moooo moooo, moooooooo mooooooo moooo mo mooooooo

thing he will by whiteness, no man can deny that in its profoundest
moooo mo mooo mo moooooooo, mo moo moo mooo mooo mo moo moooooooooo

idealized significance it calls up a peculiar apparition to the soul.
moooooooo mooooooooooo mo moooo mo m mooooooo mooooooooo mo moo mooo.




But though without dissent this point be fixed, how is mortal man to
Moo mooooo moooooo moooooo mooo moooo mo moooo, moo mo mooooo moo mo

account for it? To analyse it, would seem impossible. Can we, then,
moooooo moo mo? Mo moooooo mo, moooo mooo mooooooooo. Moo mo, mooo,

by the citation of some of those instances wherein this thing of
mo moo mooooooo mo mooo mo moooo moooooooo moooooo mooo moooo mo

whiteness--though for the time either wholly or in great part stripped
moooooooo--mooooo moo moo mooo mooooo mooooo mo mo moooo mooo mooooooo

of all direct associations calculated to impart to it aught fearful,
mo moo mooooo mooooooooooo mooooooooo mo mooooo mo mo moooo moooooo,

but nevertheless, is found to exert over us the same sorcery, however
moo mooooooooooo, mo moooo mo moooo mooo mo moo mooo moooooo, moooooo

modified;--can we thus hope to light upon some chance clue to conduct us
mooooooo;--moo mo mooo mooo mo moooo mooo mooo mooooo mooo mo moooooo mo

to the hidden cause we seek?
mo moo mooooo moooo mo mooo?




Let us try. But in a matter like this, subtlety appeals to subtlety,
Moo mo moo. Moo mo m mooooo mooo mooo, mooooooo moooooo mo mooooooo,

and without imagination no man can follow another into these halls. And
moo moooooo moooooooooo mo moo moo mooooo moooooo mooo moooo moooo. Moo

though, doubtless, some at least of the imaginative impressions about
mooooo, moooooooo, mooo mo moooo mo moo moooooooooo moooooooooo moooo

to be presented may have been shared by most men, yet few perhaps were
mo mo moooooooo moo mooo mooo mooooo mo mooo moo, moo moo moooooo mooo

entirely conscious of them at the time, and therefore may not be able to
mooooooo moooooooo mo mooo mo moo mooo, moo moooooooo moo moo mo mooo mo

recall them now.
mooooo mooo moo.




Why to the man of untutored ideality, who happens to be but loosely
Moo mo moo moo mo moooooooo mooooooo, moo moooooo mo mo moo moooooo

acquainted with the peculiar character of the day, does the bare mention
mooooooooo mooo moo mooooooo moooooooo mo moo moo, mooo moo mooo moooooo

of Whitsuntide marshal in the fancy such long, dreary, speechless
mo Moooooooooo moooooo mo moo moooo mooo mooo, mooooo, mooooooooo

processions of slow-pacing pilgrims, down-cast and hooded with
moooooooooo mo mooo-mooooo mooooooo, mooo-mooo moo mooooo mooo

new-fallen snow? Or, to the unread, unsophisticated Protestant of the
moo-mooooo mooo? Mo, mo moo mooooo, moooooooooooooo Mooooooooo mo moo

Middle American States, why does the passing mention of a White Friar or
Mooooo Mooooooo Mooooo, moo mooo moo moooooo moooooo mo m Moooo Moooo mo

a White Nun, evoke such an eyeless statue in the soul?
m Moooo Moo, moooo mooo mo moooooo mooooo mo moo mooo?




Or what is there apart from the traditions of dungeoned warriors and
Mo mooo mo moooo moooo mooo moo mooooooooo mo moooooooo mooooooo moo

kings (which will not wholly account for it) that makes the White
moooo (moooo mooo moo mooooo moooooo moo mo) mooo moooo moo Moooo

Tower of London tell so much more strongly on the imagination of
Moooo mo Mooooo mooo mo mooo mooo mooooooo mo moo moooooooooo mo

an untravelled American, than those other storied structures, its
mo moooooooooo Mooooooo, mooo moooo moooo moooooo mooooooooo, moo

neighbors--the Byward Tower, or even the Bloody? And those sublimer
moooooooo--moo Mooooo Moooo, mo mooo moo Mooooo? Moo moooo mooooooo

towers, the White Mountains of New Hampshire, whence, in peculiar moods,
mooooo, moo Moooo Moooooooo mo Moo Moooooooo, mooooo, mo mooooooo moooo,

comes that gigantic ghostliness over the soul at the bare mention of
moooo mooo mooooooo moooooooooo mooo moo mooo mo moo mooo moooooo mo

that name, while the thought of Virginia's Blue Ridge is full of a soft,
mooo mooo, moooo moo moooooo mo Mooooooo'm Mooo Moooo mo mooo mo m mooo,

dewy, distant dreaminess? Or why, irrespective of all latitudes and
mooo, moooooo mooooooooo? Mo moo, mooooooooooo mo moo moooooooo moo

longitudes, does the name of the White Sea exert such a spectralness
mooooooooo, mooo moo mooo mo moo Moooo Moo moooo mooo m mooooooooooo

over the fancy, while that of the Yellow Sea lulls us with mortal
mooo moo moooo, moooo mooo mo moo Mooooo Moo moooo mo mooo mooooo

thoughts of long lacquered mild afternoons on the waves, followed by
mooooooo mo mooo moooooooo mooo mooooooooo mo moo moooo, mooooooo mo

the gaudiest and yet sleepiest of sunsets? Or, to choose a wholly
moo mooooooo moo moo moooooooo mo moooooo? Mo, mo mooooo m mooooo

unsubstantial instance, purely addressed to the fancy, why, in reading
moooooooooooo mooooooo, mooooo moooooooo mo moo moooo, moo, mo moooooo

the old fairy tales of Central Europe, does "the tall pale man" of the
moo moo moooo moooo mo Moooooo Mooooo, mooo "moo mooo mooo moo" mo moo

Hartz forests, whose changeless pallor unrustlingly glides through the
Moooo moooooo, moooo mooooooooo mooooo mooooooooooo mooooo moooooo moo

green of the groves--why is this phantom more terrible than all the
moooo mo moo mooooo--moo mo mooo moooooo mooo mooooooo mooo moo moo

whooping imps of the Blocksburg?
mooooooo mooo mo moo Mooooooooo?




Nor is it, altogether, the remembrance of her cathedral-toppling
Moo mo mo, mooooooooo, moo moooooooooo mo moo moooooooo-mooooooo

earthquakes; nor the stampedoes of her frantic seas; nor the
moooooooooo; moo moo mooooooooo mo moo moooooo mooo; moo moo

tearlessness of arid skies that never rain; nor the sight of her wide
mooooooooooo mo mooo moooo mooo moooo mooo; moo moo moooo mo moo mooo

field of leaning spires, wrenched cope-stones, and crosses all adroop
moooo mo moooooo mooooo, mooooooo mooo-mooooo, moo moooooo moo mooooo

(like canted yards of anchored fleets); and her suburban avenues of
(mooo mooooo moooo mo mooooooo mooooo); moo moo mooooooo moooooo mo

house-walls lying over upon each other, as a tossed pack of cards;--it
moooo-moooo moooo mooo mooo mooo moooo, mo m mooooo mooo mo moooo;--mo

is not these things alone which make tearless Lima, the strangest,
mo moo moooo mooooo moooo moooo mooo mooooooo Mooo, moo moooooooo,

saddest city thou can'st see. For Lima has taken the white veil; and
moooooo mooo mooo moo'mo moo. Moo Mooo moo moooo moo moooo mooo; moo

there is a higher horror in this whiteness of her woe. Old as Pizarro,
moooo mo m mooooo mooooo mo mooo moooooooo mo moo moo. Moo mo Moooooo,

this whiteness keeps her ruins for ever new; admits not the cheerful
mooo moooooooo moooo moo moooo moo mooo moo; mooooo moo moo mooooooo

greenness of complete decay; spreads over her broken ramparts the rigid
moooooooo mo mooooooo moooo; moooooo mooo moo mooooo mooooooo moo moooo

pallor of an apoplexy that fixes its own distortions.
mooooo mo mo mooooooo mooo moooo moo moo moooooooooo.




I know that, to the common apprehension, this phenomenon of whiteness
M mooo mooo, mo moo mooooo mooooooooooo, mooo mooooooooo mo moooooooo

is not confessed to be the prime agent in exaggerating the terror of
mo moo moooooooo mo mo moo moooo moooo mo mooooooooooo moo mooooo mo

objects otherwise terrible; nor to the unimaginative mind is there aught
moooooo moooooooo mooooooo; moo mo moo moooooooooooo mooo mo moooo moooo

of terror in those appearances whose awfulness to another mind almost
mo mooooo mo moooo moooooooooo moooo moooooooo mo moooooo mooo mooooo

solely consists in this one phenomenon, especially when exhibited under
mooooo mooooooo mo mooo moo mooooooooo, mooooooooo mooo moooooooo moooo

any form at all approaching to muteness or universality. What I mean
moo mooo mo moo moooooooooo mo mooooooo mo mooooooooooo. Mooo M mooo

by these two statements may perhaps be respectively elucidated by the
mo moooo moo mooooooooo moo moooooo mo mooooooooooo mooooooooo mo moo

following examples.
moooooooo mooooooo.




First: The mariner, when drawing nigh the coasts of foreign lands, if by
Moooo: Moo moooooo, mooo moooooo mooo moo mooooo mo moooooo moooo, mo mo

night he hear the roar of breakers, starts to vigilance, and feels just
moooo mo mooo moo mooo mo mooooooo, mooooo mo moooooooo, moo moooo mooo

enough of trepidation to sharpen all his faculties; but under precisely
mooooo mo moooooooooo mo moooooo moo moo moooooooo; moo moooo moooooooo

similar circumstances, let him be called from his hammock to view his
moooooo moooooooooooo, moo moo mo mooooo mooo moo moooooo mo mooo moo

ship sailing through a midnight sea of milky whiteness--as if from
mooo moooooo moooooo m mooooooo moo mo moooo moooooooo--mo mo mooo

encircling headlands shoals of combed white bears were swimming round
mooooooooo moooooooo mooooo mo mooooo moooo moooo mooo mooooooo moooo

him, then he feels a silent, superstitious dread; the shrouded phantom
moo, mooo mo moooo m mooooo, moooooooooooo moooo; moo mooooooo moooooo

of the whitened waters is horrible to him as a real ghost; in vain the
mo moo mooooooo mooooo mo mooooooo mo moo mo m mooo moooo; mo mooo moo

lead assures him he is still off soundings; heart and helm they both go
mooo moooooo moo mo mo moooo moo moooooooo; moooo moo mooo mooo mooo mo

down; he never rests till blue water is under him again. Yet where is
mooo; mo moooo moooo mooo mooo moooo mo moooo moo moooo. Moo moooo mo

the mariner who will tell thee, "Sir, it was not so much the fear of
moo moooooo moo mooo mooo mooo, "Moo, mo moo moo mo mooo moo mooo mo

striking hidden rocks, as the fear of that hideous whiteness that so
mooooooo mooooo moooo, mo moo mooo mo mooo moooooo moooooooo mooo mo

stirred me?"
moooooo mo?"




Second: To the native Indian of Peru, the continual sight of the
Mooooo: Mo moo mooooo Mooooo mo Mooo, moo moooooooo moooo mo moo

snowhowdahed Andes conveys naught of dread, except, perhaps, in the
mooooooooooo Moooo moooooo mooooo mo moooo, mooooo, moooooo, mo moo

mere fancying of the eternal frosted desolateness reigning at such vast
mooo mooooooo mo moo moooooo moooooo mooooooooooo mooooooo mo mooo mooo

altitudes, and the natural conceit of what a fearfulness it would be
moooooooo, moo moo moooooo moooooo mo mooo m moooooooooo mo moooo mo

to lose oneself in such inhuman solitudes. Much the same is it with the
mo mooo moooooo mo mooo moooooo moooooooo. Mooo moo mooo mo mo mooo moo

backwoodsman of the West, who with comparative indifference views an
mooooooooooo mo moo Mooo, moo mooo moooooooooo mooooooooooo moooo mo

unbounded prairie sheeted with driven snow, no shadow of tree or twig
moooooooo moooooo moooooo mooo mooooo mooo, mo mooooo mo mooo mo mooo

to break the fixed trance of whiteness. Not so the sailor, beholding the
mo moooo moo moooo mooooo mo moooooooo. Moo mo moo mooooo, moooooooo moo

scenery of the Antarctic seas; where at times, by some infernal trick
moooooo mo moo Moooooooo mooo; moooo mo moooo, mo mooo mooooooo moooo

of legerdemain in the powers of frost and air, he, shivering and half
mo moooooooooo mo moo mooooo mo moooo moo moo, mo, moooooooo moo mooo

shipwrecked, instead of rainbows speaking hope and solace to his misery,
moooooooooo, moooooo mo mooooooo mooooooo mooo moo mooooo mo moo mooooo,

views what seems a boundless churchyard grinning upon him with its lean
moooo mooo moooo m moooooooo mooooooooo mooooooo mooo moo mooo moo mooo

ice monuments and splintered crosses.
moo moooooooo moo mooooooooo moooooo.




But thou sayest, methinks that white-lead chapter about whiteness is but
Moo mooo mooooo, mooooooo mooo moooo-mooo moooooo moooo moooooooo mo moo

a white flag hung out from a craven soul; thou surrenderest to a hypo,
m moooo mooo mooo moo mooo m mooooo mooo; mooo mooooooooooo mo m mooo,

Ishmael.
Moooooo.




Tell me, why this strong young colt, foaled in some peaceful valley of
Mooo mo, moo mooo mooooo moooo mooo, mooooo mo mooo mooooooo mooooo mo

Vermont, far removed from all beasts of prey--why is it that upon the
Moooooo, moo moooooo mooo moo mooooo mo mooo--moo mo mo mooo mooo moo

sunniest day, if you but shake a fresh buffalo robe behind him, so that
mooooooo moo, mo moo moo moooo m moooo moooooo mooo mooooo moo, mo mooo

he cannot even see it, but only smells its wild animal muskiness--why
mo mooooo mooo moo mo, moo mooo mooooo moo mooo mooooo moooooooo--moo

will he start, snort, and with bursting eyes paw the ground in phrensies
mooo mo moooo, moooo, moo mooo mooooooo mooo moo moo mooooo mo moooooooo

of affright? There is no remembrance in him of any gorings of wild
mo mooooooo? Moooo mo mo moooooooooo mo moo mo moo moooooo mo mooo

creatures in his green northern home, so that the strange muskiness he
moooooooo mo moo moooo mooooooo mooo, mo mooo moo moooooo moooooooo mo

smells cannot recall to him anything associated with the experience of
mooooo mooooo mooooo mo moo mooooooo mooooooooo mooo moo mooooooooo mo

former perils; for what knows he, this New England colt, of the black
mooooo mooooo; moo mooo moooo mo, mooo Moo Moooooo mooo, mo moo moooo

bisons of distant Oregon?
mooooo mo moooooo Mooooo?




No; but here thou beholdest even in a dumb brute, the instinct of the
Mo; moo mooo mooo moooooooo mooo mo m mooo moooo, moo mooooooo mo moo

knowledge of the demonism in the world. Though thousands of miles from
moooooooo mo moo mooooooo mo moo moooo. Mooooo moooooooo mo moooo mooo

Oregon, still when he smells that savage musk, the rending, goring bison
Mooooo, moooo mooo mo mooooo mooo mooooo mooo, moo moooooo, mooooo moooo

herds are as present as to the deserted wild foal of the prairies, which
moooo moo mo moooooo mo mo moo mooooooo mooo mooo mo moo mooooooo, moooo

this instant they may be trampling into dust.
mooo moooooo mooo moo mo moooooooo mooo mooo.




Thus, then, the muffled rollings of a milky sea; the bleak rustlings
Mooo, mooo, moo moooooo mooooooo mo m moooo moo; moo moooo moooooooo

of the festooned frosts of mountains; the desolate shiftings of the
mo moo moooooooo mooooo mo moooooooo; moo mooooooo moooooooo mo moo

windrowed snows of prairies; all these, to Ishmael, are as the shaking
moooooooo moooo mo mooooooo; moo moooo, mo Moooooo, moo mo moo moooooo

of that buffalo robe to the frightened colt!
mo mooo moooooo mooo mo moo mooooooooo mooo!




Though neither knows where lie the nameless things of which the mystic
Mooooo moooooo moooo moooo moo moo mooooooo mooooo mo moooo moo mooooo

sign gives forth such hints; yet with me, as with the colt, somewhere
mooo moooo moooo mooo moooo; moo mooo mo, mo mooo moo mooo, moooooooo

those things must exist. Though in many of its aspects this visible
moooo mooooo mooo moooo. Mooooo mo mooo mo moo moooooo mooo moooooo

world seems formed in love, the invisible spheres were formed in fright.
moooo moooo mooooo mo mooo, moo moooooooo moooooo mooo mooooo mo mooooo.




But not yet have we solved the incantation of this whiteness, and
Moo moo moo mooo mo mooooo moo moooooooooo mo mooo moooooooo, moo

learned why it appeals with such power to the soul; and more strange
moooooo moo mo moooooo mooo mooo moooo mo moo mooo; moo mooo moooooo

and far more portentous--why, as we have seen, it is at once the
moo moo mooo mooooooooo--moo, mo mo mooo mooo, mo mo mo mooo moo

most meaning symbol of spiritual things, nay, the very veil of the
mooo moooooo mooooo mo moooooooo mooooo, moo, moo mooo mooo mo moo

Christian's Deity; and yet should be as it is, the intensifying agent in
Moooooooo'm Moooo; moo moo mooooo mo mo mo mo, moo mooooooooooo moooo mo

things the most appalling to mankind.
mooooo moo mooo moooooooo mo moooooo.




Is it that by its indefiniteness it shadows forth the heartless voids
Mo mo mooo mo moo mooooooooooooo mo moooooo moooo moo moooooooo moooo

and immensities of the universe, and thus stabs us from behind with the
moo moooooooooo mo moo mooooooo, moo mooo moooo mo mooo mooooo mooo moo

thought of annihilation, when beholding the white depths of the milky
moooooo mo mooooooooooo, mooo moooooooo moo moooo mooooo mo moo moooo

way? Or is it, that as in essence whiteness is not so much a colour as
moo? Mo mo mo, mooo mo mo moooooo moooooooo mo moo mo mooo m mooooo mo

the visible absence of colour; and at the same time the concrete of all
moo moooooo moooooo mo mooooo; moo mo moo mooo mooo moo mooooooo mo moo

colours; is it for these reasons that there is such a dumb blankness,
moooooo; mo mo moo moooo moooooo mooo moooo mo mooo m mooo moooooooo,

full of meaning, in a wide landscape of snows--a colourless, all-colour
mooo mo moooooo, mo m mooo moooooooo mo moooo--m mooooooooo, moo-mooooo

of atheism from which we shrink? And when we consider that other theory
mo moooooo mooo moooo mo mooooo? Moo mooo mo mooooooo mooo moooo mooooo

of the natural philosophers, that all other earthly hues--every stately
mo moo moooooo mooooooooooo, mooo moo moooo moooooo mooo--moooo moooooo

or lovely emblazoning--the sweet tinges of sunset skies and woods; yea,
mo mooooo moooooooooo--moo moooo mooooo mo mooooo moooo moo moooo; moo,

and the gilded velvets of butterflies, and the butterfly cheeks of
moo moo mooooo moooooo mo moooooooooo, moo moo moooooooo mooooo mo

young girls; all these are but subtile deceits, not actually inherent
moooo moooo; moo moooo moo moo moooooo moooooo, moo mooooooo mooooooo

in substances, but only laid on from without; so that all deified Nature
mo mooooooooo, moo mooo mooo mo mooo moooooo; mo mooo moo moooooo Mooooo

absolutely paints like the harlot, whose allurements cover nothing but
mooooooooo mooooo mooo moo mooooo, moooo moooooooooo moooo moooooo moo

the charnel-house within; and when we proceed further, and consider that
moo moooooo-moooo mooooo; moo mooo mo moooooo moooooo, moo mooooooo mooo

the mystical cosmetic which produces every one of her hues, the great
moo mooooooo mooooooo moooo mooooooo moooo moo mo moo mooo, moo moooo

principle of light, for ever remains white or colourless in itself, and
moooooooo mo moooo, moo mooo moooooo moooo mo mooooooooo mo mooooo, moo

if operating without medium upon matter, would touch all objects, even
mo moooooooo moooooo mooooo mooo mooooo, moooo moooo moo moooooo, mooo

tulips and roses, with its own blank tinge--pondering all this, the
mooooo moo moooo, mooo moo moo moooo moooo--moooooooo moo mooo, moo

palsied universe lies before us a leper; and like wilful travellers in
moooooo mooooooo mooo mooooo mo m moooo; moo mooo mooooo mooooooooo mo

Lapland, who refuse to wear coloured and colouring glasses upon their
Moooooo, moo mooooo mo mooo mooooooo moo moooooooo moooooo mooo moooo

eyes, so the wretched infidel gazes himself blind at the monumental
mooo, mo moo mooooooo moooooo moooo moooooo moooo mo moo mooooooooo

white shroud that wraps all the prospect around him. And of all these
moooo mooooo mooo moooo moo moo mooooooo mooooo moo. Moo mo moo moooo

things the Albino whale was the symbol. Wonder ye then at the fiery
mooooo moo Mooooo moooo moo moo mooooo. Mooooo mo mooo mo moo moooo

hunt?
mooo?










CHAPTER 43. Hark!
MOOOOOO mo. Mooo!







"HIST! Did you hear that noise, Cabaco?"
"MOOO! Moo moo mooo mooo moooo, Mooooo?"




It was the middle-watch; a fair moonlight; the seamen were standing in a
Mo moo moo mooooo-moooo; m mooo moooooooo; moo mooooo mooo mooooooo mo m

cordon, extending from one of the fresh-water butts in the waist, to the
mooooo, moooooooo mooo moo mo moo moooo-moooo moooo mo moo moooo, mo moo

scuttle-butt near the taffrail. In this manner, they passed the buckets
moooooo-mooo mooo moo mooooooo. Mo mooo mooooo, mooo mooooo moo moooooo

to fill the scuttle-butt. Standing, for the most part, on the hallowed
mo mooo moo moooooo-mooo. Mooooooo, moo moo mooo mooo, mo moo mooooooo

precincts of the quarter-deck, they were careful not to speak or rustle
moooooooo mo moo moooooo-mooo, mooo mooo moooooo moo mo moooo mo mooooo

their feet. From hand to hand, the buckets went in the deepest silence,
moooo mooo. Mooo mooo mo mooo, moo moooooo mooo mo moo moooooo moooooo,

only broken by the occasional flap of a sail, and the steady hum of the
mooo mooooo mo moo mooooooooo mooo mo m mooo, moo moo mooooo moo mo moo

unceasingly advancing keel.
moooooooooo moooooooo mooo.




It was in the midst of this repose, that Archy, one of the cordon, whose
Mo moo mo moo moooo mo mooo mooooo, mooo Moooo, moo mo moo mooooo, moooo

post was near the after-hatches, whispered to his neighbor, a Cholo, the
mooo moo mooo moo moooo-moooooo, moooooooo mo moo mooooooo, m Moooo, moo

words above.
moooo moooo.




"Hist! did you hear that noise, Cabaco?"
"Mooo! moo moo mooo mooo moooo, Mooooo?"




"Take the bucket, will ye, Archy? what noise d'ye mean?"
"Mooo moo mooooo, mooo mo, Moooo? mooo moooo m'mo mooo?"




"There it is again--under the hatches--don't you hear it--a cough--it
"Moooo mo mo moooo--moooo moo moooooo--moo'm moo mooo mo--m moooo--mo

sounded like a cough."
moooooo mooo m moooo."




"Cough be damned! Pass along that return bucket."
"Moooo mo mooooo! Mooo moooo mooo mooooo mooooo."




"There again--there it is!--it sounds like two or three sleepers turning
"Moooo moooo--moooo mo mo!--mo mooooo mooo moo mo moooo mooooooo moooooo

over, now!"
mooo, moo!"




"Caramba! have done, shipmate, will ye? It's the three soaked biscuits
"Moooooo! mooo mooo, mooooooo, mooo mo? Mo'm moo moooo mooooo mooooooo

ye eat for supper turning over inside of ye--nothing else. Look to the
mo moo moo mooooo moooooo mooo mooooo mo mo--moooooo mooo. Mooo mo moo

bucket!"
mooooo!"




"Say what ye will, shipmate; I've sharp ears."
"Moo mooo mo mooo, mooooooo; M'mo moooo mooo."




"Aye, you are the chap, ain't ye, that heard the hum of the old
"Moo, moo moo moo mooo, moo'm mo, mooo moooo moo moo mo moo moo

Quakeress's knitting-needles fifty miles at sea from Nantucket; you're
Moooooooo'm mooooooo-moooooo moooo moooo mo moo mooo Moooooooo; moo'mo

the chap."
moo mooo."




"Grin away; we'll see what turns up. Hark ye, Cabaco, there is somebody
"Mooo mooo; mo'mo moo mooo moooo mo. Mooo mo, Mooooo, moooo mo mooooooo

down in the after-hold that has not yet been seen on deck; and I suspect
mooo mo moo moooo-mooo mooo moo moo moo mooo mooo mo mooo; moo M moooooo

our old Mogul knows something of it too. I heard Stubb tell Flask, one
moo moo Moooo moooo moooooooo mo mo moo. M moooo Moooo mooo Moooo, moo

morning watch, that there was something of that sort in the wind."
moooooo moooo, mooo moooo moo moooooooo mo mooo mooo mo moo mooo."




"Tish! the bucket!"
"Mooo! moo mooooo!"










CHAPTER 44. The Chart.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Moooo.







Had you followed Captain Ahab down into his cabin after the squall that
Moo moo mooooooo Moooooo Mooo mooo mooo moo moooo moooo moo mooooo mooo

took place on the night succeeding that wild ratification of his purpose
mooo moooo mo moo moooo mooooooooo mooo mooo mooooooooooo mo moo moooooo

with his crew, you would have seen him go to a locker in the transom,
mooo moo mooo, moo moooo mooo mooo moo mo mo m mooooo mo moo moooooo,

and bringing out a large wrinkled roll of yellowish sea charts, spread
moo mooooooo moo m moooo mooooooo mooo mo moooooooo moo mooooo, mooooo

them before him on his screwed-down table. Then seating himself before
mooo mooooo moo mo moo moooooo-mooo moooo. Mooo moooooo moooooo mooooo

it, you would have seen him intently study the various lines and
mo, moo moooo mooo mooo moo mooooooo moooo moo moooooo moooo moo

shadings which there met his eye; and with slow but steady pencil trace
mooooooo moooo moooo moo moo moo; moo mooo mooo moo mooooo mooooo moooo

additional courses over spaces that before were blank. At intervals, he
mooooooooo moooooo mooo mooooo mooo mooooo mooo moooo. Mo moooooooo, mo

would refer to piles of old log-books beside him, wherein were set down
moooo moooo mo moooo mo moo moo-moooo mooooo moo, moooooo mooo moo mooo

the seasons and places in which, on various former voyages of various
moo moooooo moo mooooo mo moooo, mo moooooo mooooo moooooo mo moooooo

ships, sperm whales had been captured or seen.
moooo, moooo mooooo moo mooo mooooooo mo mooo.




While thus employed, the heavy pewter lamp suspended in chains over his
Moooo mooo mooooooo, moo moooo mooooo mooo moooooooo mo mooooo mooo moo

head, continually rocked with the motion of the ship, and for ever threw
mooo, moooooooooo mooooo mooo moo mooooo mo moo mooo, moo moo mooo moooo

shifting gleams and shadows of lines upon his wrinkled brow, till it
mooooooo mooooo moo moooooo mo moooo mooo moo mooooooo mooo, mooo mo

almost seemed that while he himself was marking out lines and courses
mooooo mooooo mooo moooo mo moooooo moo moooooo moo moooo moo moooooo

on the wrinkled charts, some invisible pencil was also tracing lines and
mo moo mooooooo mooooo, mooo moooooooo mooooo moo mooo moooooo moooo moo

courses upon the deeply marked chart of his forehead.
moooooo mooo moo mooooo mooooo moooo mo moo mooooooo.




But it was not this night in particular that, in the solitude of his
Moo mo moo moo mooo moooo mo mooooooooo mooo, mo moo mooooooo mo moo

cabin, Ahab thus pondered over his charts. Almost every night they were
moooo, Mooo mooo mooooooo mooo moo mooooo. Mooooo moooo moooo mooo mooo

brought out; almost every night some pencil marks were effaced, and
moooooo moo; mooooo moooo moooo mooo mooooo moooo mooo moooooo, moo

others were substituted. For with the charts of all four oceans before
mooooo mooo moooooooooo. Moo mooo moo mooooo mo moo mooo mooooo mooooo

him, Ahab was threading a maze of currents and eddies, with a view to
moo, Mooo moo moooooooo m mooo mo mooooooo moo mooooo, mooo m mooo mo

the more certain accomplishment of that monomaniac thought of his soul.
moo mooo moooooo mooooooooooooo mo mooo mooooooooo moooooo mo moo mooo.




Now, to any one not fully acquainted with the ways of the leviathans,
Moo, mo moo moo moo moooo mooooooooo mooo moo mooo mo moo mooooooooo,

it might seem an absurdly hopeless task thus to seek out one solitary
mo moooo mooo mo mooooooo mooooooo mooo mooo mo mooo moo moo mooooooo

creature in the unhooped oceans of this planet. But not so did it
mooooooo mo moo mooooooo mooooo mo mooo mooooo. Moo moo mo moo mo

seem to Ahab, who knew the sets of all tides and currents; and thereby
mooo mo Mooo, moo mooo moo mooo mo moo moooo moo mooooooo; moo moooooo

calculating the driftings of the sperm whale's food; and, also, calling
moooooooooo moo moooooooo mo moo moooo moooo'm mooo; moo, mooo, moooooo

to mind the regular, ascertained seasons for hunting him in particular
mo mooo moo moooooo, moooooooooo moooooo moo moooooo moo mo mooooooooo

latitudes; could arrive at reasonable surmises, almost approaching to
moooooooo; moooo mooooo mo mooooooooo mooooooo, mooooo moooooooooo mo

certainties, concerning the timeliest day to be upon this or that ground
moooooooooo, mooooooooo moo moooooooo moo mo mo mooo mooo mo mooo mooooo

in search of his prey.
mo mooooo mo moo mooo.




So assured, indeed, is the fact concerning the periodicalness of the
Mo moooooo, mooooo, mo moo mooo mooooooooo moo mooooooooooooo mo moo

sperm whale's resorting to given waters, that many hunters believe that,
moooo moooo'm moooooooo mo moooo mooooo, mooo mooo moooooo moooooo mooo,

could he be closely observed and studied throughout the world; were the
moooo mo mo moooooo mooooooo moo moooooo mooooooooo moo moooo; mooo moo

logs for one voyage of the entire whale fleet carefully collated,
mooo moo moo mooooo mo moo mooooo moooo moooo moooooooo mooooooo,

then the migrations of the sperm whale would be found to correspond in
mooo moo mooooooooo mo moo moooo moooo moooo mo moooo mo mooooooooo mo

invariability to those of the herring-shoals or the flights of swallows.
moooooooooooo mo moooo mo moo moooooo-mooooo mo moo moooooo mo mooooooo.

On this hint, attempts have been made to construct elaborate migratory
Mo mooo mooo, mooooooo mooo mooo mooo mo moooooooo moooooooo moooooooo

charts of the sperm whale.*
mooooo mo moo moooo moooo.*




     *Since the above was written, the statement is happily borne
     *Moooo moo moooo moo moooooo, moo moooooooo mo moooooo moooo

     out by an official circular, issued by Lieutenant Maury, of
     moo mo mo mooooooo mooooooo, mooooo mo Mooooooooo Moooo, mo

     the National Observatory, Washington, April 16th, 1851. By
     moo Mooooooo Moooooooooo, Mooooooooo, Moooo mooo, mooo. Mo

     that circular, it appears that precisely such a chart is in
     mooo mooooooo, mo moooooo mooo moooooooo mooo m moooo mo mo

     course of completion; and portions of it are presented in
     mooooo mo mooooooooo; moo mooooooo mo mo moo moooooooo mo

     the circular. "This chart divides the ocean into districts
     moo mooooooo. "Mooo moooo moooooo moo moooo mooo moooooooo

     of five degrees of latitude by five degrees of longitude;
     mo mooo moooooo mo mooooooo mo mooo moooooo mo moooooooo;

     perpendicularly through each of which districts are twelve
     moooooooooooooo moooooo mooo mo moooo moooooooo moo mooooo

     columns for the twelve months; and horizontally through each
     moooooo moo moo mooooo mooooo; moo mooooooooooo moooooo mooo

     of which districts are three lines; one to show the number
     mo moooo moooooooo moo moooo moooo; moo mo mooo moo mooooo

     of days that have been spent in each month in every
     mo mooo mooo mooo mooo moooo mo mooo moooo mo moooo

     district, and the two others to show the number of days in
     mooooooo, moo moo moo mooooo mo mooo moo mooooo mo mooo mo

     which whales, sperm or right, have been seen."
     moooo mooooo, moooo mo moooo, mooo mooo mooo."




Besides, when making a passage from one feeding-ground to another, the
Moooooo, mooo mooooo m moooooo mooo moo moooooo-mooooo mo moooooo, moo

sperm whales, guided by some infallible instinct--say, rather, secret
moooo mooooo, mooooo mo mooo mooooooooo mooooooo--moo, mooooo, mooooo

intelligence from the Deity--mostly swim in VEINS, as they are called;
mooooooooooo mooo moo Moooo--mooooo mooo mo MOOOO, mo mooo moo mooooo;

continuing their way along a given ocean-line with such undeviating
mooooooooo moooo moo moooo m moooo moooo-mooo mooo mooo moooooooooo

exactitude, that no ship ever sailed her course, by any chart, with
mooooooooo, mooo mo mooo mooo mooooo moo mooooo, mo moo moooo, mooo

one tithe of such marvellous precision. Though, in these cases, the
moo moooo mo mooo mooooooooo moooooooo. Mooooo, mo moooo moooo, moo

direction taken by any one whale be straight as a surveyor's parallel,
moooooooo moooo mo moo moo moooo mo mooooooo mo m mooooooo'm mooooooo,

and though the line of advance be strictly confined to its own
moo mooooo moo mooo mo moooooo mo mooooooo mooooooo mo moo moo

unavoidable, straight wake, yet the arbitrary VEIN in which at these
moooooooooo, mooooooo mooo, moo moo moooooooo MOOO mo moooo mo moooo

times he is said to swim, generally embraces some few miles in width
moooo mo mo mooo mo mooo, moooooooo mooooooo mooo moo moooo mo moooo

(more or less, as the vein is presumed to expand or contract); but
(mooo mo mooo, mo moo mooo mo mooooooo mo mooooo mo mooooooo); moo

never exceeds the visual sweep from the whale-ship's mast-heads,
moooo moooooo moo mooooo moooo mooo moo moooo-mooo'm mooo-moooo,

when circumspectly gliding along this magic zone. The sum is, that at
mooo moooooooooooo moooooo moooo mooo moooo mooo. Moo moo mo, mooo mo

particular seasons within that breadth and along that path, migrating
mooooooooo moooooo mooooo mooo moooooo moo moooo mooo mooo, moooooooo

whales may with great confidence be looked for.
mooooo moo mooo moooo mooooooooo mo mooooo moo.




And hence not only at substantiated times, upon well known separate
Moo moooo moo mooo mo moooooooooooo moooo, mooo mooo moooo mooooooo

feeding-grounds, could Ahab hope to encounter his prey; but in crossing
moooooo-moooooo, moooo Mooo mooo mo moooooooo moo mooo; moo mo mooooooo

the widest expanses of water between those grounds he could, by his
moo mooooo mooooooo mo moooo moooooo moooo moooooo mo moooo, mo moo

art, so place and time himself on his way, as even then not to be wholly
moo, mo moooo moo mooo moooooo mo moo moo, mo mooo mooo moo mo mo mooooo

without prospect of a meeting.
moooooo mooooooo mo m moooooo.




There was a circumstance which at first sight seemed to entangle his
Moooo moo m mooooooooooo moooo mo moooo moooo mooooo mo mooooooo moo

delirious but still methodical scheme. But not so in the reality,
moooooooo moo moooo mooooooooo mooooo. Moo moo mo mo moo moooooo,

perhaps. Though the gregarious sperm whales have their regular seasons
moooooo. Mooooo moo mooooooooo moooo mooooo mooo moooo moooooo moooooo

for particular grounds, yet in general you cannot conclude that the
moo mooooooooo moooooo, moo mo moooooo moo mooooo mooooooo mooo moo

herds which haunted such and such a latitude or longitude this year,
moooo moooo moooooo mooo moo mooo m mooooooo mo moooooooo mooo mooo,

say, will turn out to be identically the same with those that were found
moo, mooo mooo moo mo mo moooooooooo moo mooo mooo moooo mooo mooo moooo

there the preceding season; though there are peculiar and unquestionable
moooo moo moooooooo mooooo; mooooo moooo moo mooooooo moo mooooooooooooo

instances where the contrary of this has proved true. In general, the
moooooooo moooo moo mooooooo mo mooo moo mooooo mooo. Mo moooooo, moo

same remark, only within a less wide limit, applies to the solitaries
mooo mooooo, mooo mooooo m mooo mooo moooo, moooooo mo moo mooooooooo

and hermits among the matured, aged sperm whales. So that though Moby
moo moooooo moooo moo moooooo, mooo moooo mooooo. Mo mooo mooooo Mooo

Dick had in a former year been seen, for example, on what is called the
Mooo moo mo m mooooo mooo mooo mooo, moo moooooo, mo mooo mo mooooo moo

Seychelle ground in the Indian ocean, or Volcano Bay on the Japanese
Moooooooo mooooo mo moo Mooooo moooo, mo Moooooo Moo mo moo Mooooooo

Coast; yet it did not follow, that were the Pequod to visit either of
Moooo; moo mo moo moo mooooo, mooo mooo moo Mooooo mo moooo mooooo mo

those spots at any subsequent corresponding season, she would infallibly
moooo moooo mo moo mooooooooo moooooooooooo mooooo, moo moooo mooooooooo

encounter him there. So, too, with some other feeding grounds, where
moooooooo moo moooo. Mo, moo, mooo mooo moooo moooooo moooooo, moooo

he had at times revealed himself. But all these seemed only his casual
mo moo mo moooo mooooooo moooooo. Moo moo moooo mooooo mooo moo mooooo

stopping-places and ocean-inns, so to speak, not his places of prolonged
mooooooo-mooooo moo moooo-mooo, mo mo moooo, moo moo mooooo mo moooooooo

abode. And where Ahab's chances of accomplishing his object have
moooo. Moo moooo Mooo'm moooooo mo moooooooooooo moo mooooo mooo

hitherto been spoken of, allusion has only been made to whatever
mooooooo mooo mooooo mo, mooooooo moo mooo mooo mooo mo mooooooo

way-side, antecedent, extra prospects were his, ere a particular
moo-mooo, mooooooooo, moooo moooooooo mooo moo, moo m mooooooooo

set time or place were attained, when all possibilities would become
moo mooo mo moooo mooo mooooooo, mooo moo moooooooooooo moooo mooooo

probabilities, and, as Ahab fondly thought, every possibility the next
moooooooooooo, moo, mo Mooo mooooo moooooo, moooo moooooooooo moo mooo

thing to a certainty. That particular set time and place were conjoined
moooo mo m moooooooo. Mooo mooooooooo moo mooo moo moooo mooo moooooooo

in the one technical phrase--the Season-on-the-Line. For there and then,
mo moo moo moooooooo mooooo--moo Mooooo-mo-moo-Mooo. Moo moooo moo mooo,

for several consecutive years, Moby Dick had been periodically descried,
moo moooooo moooooooooo moooo, Mooo Mooo moo mooo mooooooooooo mooooooo,

lingering in those waters for awhile, as the sun, in its annual round,
moooooooo mo moooo mooooo moo mooooo, mo moo moo, mo moo mooooo moooo,

loiters for a predicted interval in any one sign of the Zodiac. There
moooooo moo m moooooooo mooooooo mo moo moo mooo mo moo Mooooo. Moooo

it was, too, that most of the deadly encounters with the white whale had
mo moo, moo, mooo mooo mo moo mooooo mooooooooo mooo moo moooo moooo moo

taken place; there the waves were storied with his deeds; there also was
moooo moooo; moooo moo moooo mooo moooooo mooo moo moooo; moooo mooo moo

that tragic spot where the monomaniac old man had found the awful motive
mooo mooooo mooo moooo moo mooooooooo moo moo moo moooo moo moooo mooooo

to his vengeance. But in the cautious comprehensiveness and unloitering
mo moo moooooooo. Moo mo moo mooooooo moooooooooooooooo moo moooooooooo

vigilance with which Ahab threw his brooding soul into this unfaltering
moooooooo mooo moooo Mooo moooo moo mooooooo mooo mooo mooo moooooooooo

hunt, he would not permit himself to rest all his hopes upon the one
mooo, mo moooo moo mooooo moooooo mo mooo moo moo moooo mooo moo moo

crowning fact above mentioned, however flattering it might be to those
mooooooo mooo moooo moooooooo, moooooo mooooooooo mo moooo mo mo moooo

hopes; nor in the sleeplessness of his vow could he so tranquillize his
moooo; moo mo moo moooooooooooo mo moo moo moooo mo mo mooooooooooo moo

unquiet heart as to postpone all intervening quest.
moooooo moooo mo mo mooooooo moo moooooooooo moooo.




Now, the Pequod had sailed from Nantucket at the very beginning of the
Moo, moo Mooooo moo mooooo mooo Moooooooo mo moo mooo moooooooo mo moo

Season-on-the-Line. No possible endeavor then could enable her commander
Mooooo-mo-moo-Mooo. Mo mooooooo mooooooo mooo moooo mooooo moo moooooooo

to make the great passage southwards, double Cape Horn, and then running
mo mooo moo moooo moooooo mooooooooo, mooooo Mooo Mooo, moo mooo moooooo

down sixty degrees of latitude arrive in the equatorial Pacific in time
mooo moooo moooooo mo mooooooo mooooo mo moo mooooooooo Moooooo mo mooo

to cruise there. Therefore, he must wait for the next ensuing season.
mo mooooo moooo. Moooooooo, mo mooo mooo moo moo mooo moooooo mooooo.

Yet the premature hour of the Pequod's sailing had, perhaps, been
Moo moo moooooooo mooo mo moo Mooooo'm moooooo moo, moooooo, mooo

correctly selected by Ahab, with a view to this very complexion of
moooooooo mooooooo mo Mooo, mooo m mooo mo mooo mooo mooooooooo mo

things. Because, an interval of three hundred and sixty-five days
mooooo. Moooooo, mo mooooooo mo moooo moooooo moo moooo-mooo mooo

and nights was before him; an interval which, instead of impatiently
moo mooooo moo mooooo moo; mo mooooooo moooo, moooooo mo moooooooooo

enduring ashore, he would spend in a miscellaneous hunt; if by chance
mooooooo mooooo, mo moooo moooo mo m moooooooooooo mooo; mo mo mooooo

the White Whale, spending his vacation in seas far remote from his
moo Moooo Moooo, mooooooo moo mooooooo mo mooo moo mooooo mooo moo

periodical feeding-grounds, should turn up his wrinkled brow off the
mooooooooo moooooo-moooooo, mooooo mooo mo moo mooooooo mooo moo moo

Persian Gulf, or in the Bengal Bay, or China Seas, or in any other
Moooooo Mooo, mo mo moo Mooooo Moo, mo Moooo Mooo, mo mo moo moooo

waters haunted by his race. So that Monsoons, Pampas, Nor'-Westers,
mooooo moooooo mo moo mooo. Mo mooo Mooooooo, Mooooo, Moo'-Moooooo,

Harmattans, Trades; any wind but the Levanter and Simoon, might
Mooooooooo, Mooooo; moo mooo moo moo Mooooooo moo Mooooo, moooo

blow Moby Dick into the devious zig-zag world-circle of the Pequod's
mooo Mooo Mooo mooo moo moooooo moo-moo moooo-mooooo mo moo Mooooo'm

circumnavigating wake.
mooooooooooooooo mooo.




But granting all this; yet, regarded discreetly and coolly, seems it not
Moo mooooooo moo mooo; moo, mooooooo mooooooooo moo mooooo, moooo mo moo

but a mad idea, this; that in the broad boundless ocean, one solitary
moo m moo mooo, mooo; mooo mo moo moooo moooooooo moooo, moo mooooooo

whale, even if encountered, should be thought capable of individual
moooo, mooo mo moooooooooo, mooooo mo moooooo moooooo mo mooooooooo

recognition from his hunter, even as a white-bearded Mufti in the
moooooooooo mooo moo mooooo, mooo mo m moooo-moooooo Moooo mo moo

thronged thoroughfares of Constantinople? Yes. For the peculiar
mooooooo moooooooooooo mo Mooooooooooooo? Moo. Moo moo mooooooo

snow-white brow of Moby Dick, and his snow-white hump, could not but
mooo-moooo mooo mo Mooo Mooo, moo moo mooo-moooo mooo, moooo moo moo

be unmistakable. And have I not tallied the whale, Ahab would mutter
mo mooooooooooo. Moo mooo M moo moooooo moo moooo, Mooo moooo mooooo

to himself, as after poring over his charts till long after midnight he
mo moooooo, mo moooo mooooo mooo moo mooooo mooo mooo moooo mooooooo mo

would throw himself back in reveries--tallied him, and shall he escape?
moooo moooo moooooo mooo mo mooooooo--moooooo moo, moo moooo mo mooooo?

His broad fins are bored, and scalloped out like a lost sheep's ear! And
Moo moooo mooo moo moooo, moo moooooooo moo mooo m mooo moooo'm moo! Moo

here, his mad mind would run on in a breathless race; till a weariness
mooo, moo moo mooo moooo moo mo mo m mooooooooo mooo; mooo m moooooooo

and faintness of pondering came over him; and in the open air of the
moo moooooooo mo moooooooo mooo mooo moo; moo mo moo mooo moo mo moo

deck he would seek to recover his strength. Ah, God! what trances
mooo mo moooo mooo mo moooooo moo mooooooo. Mo, Moo! mooo moooooo

of torments does that man endure who is consumed with one unachieved
mo mooooooo mooo mooo moo mooooo moo mo mooooooo mooo moo mooooooooo

revengeful desire. He sleeps with clenched hands; and wakes with his own
mooooooooo mooooo. Mo mooooo mooo mooooooo moooo; moo moooo mooo moo moo

bloody nails in his palms.
mooooo moooo mo moo moooo.




Often, when forced from his hammock by exhausting and intolerably vivid
Moooo, mooo mooooo mooo moo moooooo mo mooooooooo moo moooooooooo moooo

dreams of the night, which, resuming his own intense thoughts through
mooooo mo moo moooo, moooo, mooooooo moo moo moooooo mooooooo moooooo

the day, carried them on amid a clashing of phrensies, and whirled them
moo moo, moooooo mooo mo mooo m mooooooo mo moooooooo, moo moooooo mooo

round and round and round in his blazing brain, till the very throbbing
moooo moo moooo moo moooo mo moo moooooo moooo, mooo moo mooo moooooooo

of his life-spot became insufferable anguish; and when, as was sometimes
mo moo mooo-mooo mooooo mooooooooooo moooooo; moo mooo, mo moo moooooooo

the case, these spiritual throes in him heaved his being up from its
moo mooo, moooo moooooooo mooooo mo moo mooooo moo moooo mo mooo moo

base, and a chasm seemed opening in him, from which forked flames and
mooo, moo m moooo mooooo moooooo mo moo, mooo moooo mooooo mooooo moo

lightnings shot up, and accursed fiends beckoned him to leap down among
mooooooooo mooo mo, moo mooooooo mooooo mooooooo moo mo mooo mooo moooo

them; when this hell in himself yawned beneath him, a wild cry would be
mooo; mooo mooo mooo mo moooooo mooooo moooooo moo, m mooo moo moooo mo

heard through the ship; and with glaring eyes Ahab would burst from his
moooo moooooo moo mooo; moo mooo moooooo mooo Mooo moooo moooo mooo moo

state room, as though escaping from a bed that was on fire. Yet these,
moooo mooo, mo mooooo mooooooo mooo m moo mooo moo mo mooo. Moo moooo,

perhaps, instead of being the unsuppressable symptoms of some latent
moooooo, moooooo mo moooo moo mooooooooooooo mooooooo mo mooo mooooo

weakness, or fright at his own resolve, were but the plainest tokens
mooooooo, mo mooooo mo moo moo moooooo, mooo moo moo mooooooo mooooo

of its intensity. For, at such times, crazy Ahab, the scheming,
mo moo moooooooo. Moo, mo mooo moooo, moooo Mooo, moo mooooooo,

unappeasedly steadfast hunter of the white whale; this Ahab that had
mooooooooooo moooooooo mooooo mo moo moooo moooo; mooo Mooo mooo moo

gone to his hammock, was not the agent that so caused him to burst from
mooo mo moo moooooo, moo moo moo moooo mooo mo mooooo moo mo moooo mooo

it in horror again. The latter was the eternal, living principle or
mo mo mooooo moooo. Moo mooooo moo moo moooooo, mooooo moooooooo mo

soul in him; and in sleep, being for the time dissociated from the
mooo mo moo; moo mo moooo, moooo moo moo mooo moooooooooo mooo moo

characterizing mind, which at other times employed it for its outer
mooooooooooooo mooo, moooo mo moooo moooo mooooooo mo moo moo moooo

vehicle or agent, it spontaneously sought escape from the scorching
moooooo mo moooo, mo moooooooooooo mooooo mooooo mooo moo moooooooo

contiguity of the frantic thing, of which, for the time, it was no
mooooooooo mo moo moooooo moooo, mo moooo, moo moo mooo, mo moo mo

longer an integral. But as the mind does not exist unless leagued with
mooooo mo mooooooo. Moo mo moo mooo mooo moo moooo mooooo moooooo mooo

the soul, therefore it must have been that, in Ahab's case, yielding up
moo mooo, moooooooo mo mooo mooo mooo mooo, mo Mooo'm mooo, mooooooo mo

all his thoughts and fancies to his one supreme purpose; that purpose,
moo moo mooooooo moo moooooo mo moo moo moooooo moooooo; mooo moooooo,

by its own sheer inveteracy of will, forced itself against gods and
mo moo moo moooo mooooooooo mo mooo, mooooo mooooo moooooo mooo moo

devils into a kind of self-assumed, independent being of its own. Nay,
mooooo mooo m mooo mo mooo-moooooo, moooooooooo moooo mo moo moo. Moo,

could grimly live and burn, while the common vitality to which it was
moooo mooooo mooo moo mooo, moooo moo mooooo mooooooo mo moooo mo moo

conjoined, fled horror-stricken from the unbidden and unfathered birth.
moooooooo, mooo mooooo-mooooooo mooo moo mooooooo moo mooooooooo moooo.

Therefore, the tormented spirit that glared out of bodily eyes, when
Moooooooo, moo moooooooo mooooo mooo mooooo moo mo mooooo mooo, mooo

what seemed Ahab rushed from his room, was for the time but a vacated
mooo mooooo Mooo mooooo mooo moo mooo, moo moo moo mooo moo m moooooo

thing, a formless somnambulistic being, a ray of living light, to be
moooo, m mooooooo mooooooooooooo moooo, m moo mo mooooo moooo, mo mo

sure, but without an object to colour, and therefore a blankness in
mooo, moo moooooo mo mooooo mo mooooo, moo moooooooo m moooooooo mo

itself. God help thee, old man, thy thoughts have created a creature
mooooo. Moo mooo mooo, moo moo, moo mooooooo mooo moooooo m mooooooo

in thee; and he whose intense thinking thus makes him a Prometheus; a
mo mooo; moo mo moooo moooooo mooooooo mooo moooo moo m Mooooooooo; m

vulture feeds upon that heart for ever; that vulture the very creature
moooooo moooo mooo mooo moooo moo mooo; mooo moooooo moo mooo mooooooo

he creates.
mo moooooo.










CHAPTER 45. The Affidavit.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Moooooooo.







So far as what there may be of a narrative in this book; and, indeed, as
Mo moo mo mooo moooo moo mo mo m moooooooo mo mooo mooo; moo, mooooo, mo

indirectly touching one or two very interesting and curious particulars
mooooooooo mooooooo moo mo moo mooo moooooooooo moo moooooo moooooooooo

in the habits of sperm whales, the foregoing chapter, in its earlier
mo moo mooooo mo moooo mooooo, moo moooooooo moooooo, mo moo moooooo

part, is as important a one as will be found in this volume; but the
mooo, mo mo moooooooo m moo mo mooo mo moooo mo mooo mooooo; moo moo

leading matter of it requires to be still further and more familiarly
moooooo mooooo mo mo mooooooo mo mo moooo moooooo moo mooo mooooooooo

enlarged upon, in order to be adequately understood, and moreover to
mooooooo mooo, mo moooo mo mo mooooooooo mooooooooo, moo mooooooo mo

take away any incredulity which a profound ignorance of the entire
mooo mooo moo moooooooooo moooo m mooooooo moooooooo mo moo mooooo

subject may induce in some minds, as to the natural verity of the main
moooooo moo mooooo mo mooo moooo, mo mo moo moooooo mooooo mo moo mooo

points of this affair.
mooooo mo mooo mooooo.




I care not to perform this part of my task methodically; but shall
M mooo moo mo moooooo mooo mooo mo mo mooo mooooooooooo; moo moooo

be content to produce the desired impression by separate citations of
mo moooooo mo moooooo moo moooooo mooooooooo mo mooooooo moooooooo mo

items, practically or reliably known to me as a whaleman; and from these
moooo, moooooooooo mo mooooooo moooo mo mo mo m mooooooo; moo mooo moooo

citations, I take it--the conclusion aimed at will naturally follow of
moooooooo, M mooo mo--moo mooooooooo moooo mo mooo moooooooo mooooo mo

itself.
mooooo.




First: I have personally known three instances where a whale, after
Moooo: M mooo mooooooooo moooo moooo moooooooo moooo m moooo, moooo

receiving a harpoon, has effected a complete escape; and, after an
moooooooo m moooooo, moo mooooooo m mooooooo mooooo; moo, moooo mo

interval (in one instance of three years), has been again struck by
mooooooo (mo moo mooooooo mo moooo moooo), moo mooo moooo mooooo mo

the same hand, and slain; when the two irons, both marked by the same
moo mooo mooo, moo moooo; mooo moo moo moooo, mooo mooooo mo moo mooo

private cypher, have been taken from the body. In the instance where
moooooo mooooo, mooo mooo moooo mooo moo mooo. Mo moo mooooooo moooo

three years intervened between the flinging of the two harpoons; and I
moooo moooo mooooooooo moooooo moo mooooooo mo moo moo mooooooo; moo M

think it may have been something more than that; the man who darted
moooo mo moo mooo mooo moooooooo mooo mooo mooo; moo moo moo mooooo

them happening, in the interval, to go in a trading ship on a voyage to
mooo moooooooo, mo moo mooooooo, mo mo mo m moooooo mooo mo m mooooo mo

Africa, went ashore there, joined a discovery party, and penetrated far
Mooooo, mooo mooooo moooo, mooooo m moooooooo moooo, moo mooooooooo moo

into the interior, where he travelled for a period of nearly two years,
mooo moo mooooooo, moooo mo moooooooo moo m mooooo mo mooooo moo moooo,

often endangered by serpents, savages, tigers, poisonous miasmas,
moooo mooooooooo mo mooooooo, moooooo, mooooo, moooooooo moooooo,

with all the other common perils incident to wandering in the heart of
mooo moo moo moooo mooooo mooooo mooooooo mo moooooooo mo moo moooo mo

unknown regions. Meanwhile, the whale he had struck must also have
moooooo moooooo. Moooooooo, moo moooo mo moo mooooo mooo mooo mooo

been on its travels; no doubt it had thrice circumnavigated the globe,
mooo mo moo moooooo; mo moooo mo moo mooooo moooooooooooooo moo moooo,

brushing with its flanks all the coasts of Africa; but to no purpose.
mooooooo mooo moo mooooo moo moo mooooo mo Mooooo; moo mo mo moooooo.

This man and this whale again came together, and the one vanquished the
Mooo moo moo mooo moooo moooo mooo mooooooo, moo moo moo mooooooooo moo

other. I say I, myself, have known three instances similar to this; that
moooo. M moo M, mooooo, mooo moooo moooo moooooooo moooooo mo mooo; mooo

is in two of them I saw the whales struck; and, upon the second attack,
mo mo moo mo mooo M moo moo mooooo mooooo; moo, mooo moo mooooo mooooo,

saw the two irons with the respective marks cut in them, afterwards
moo moo moo moooo mooo moo mooooooooo moooo moo mo mooo, mooooooooo

taken from the dead fish. In the three-year instance, it so fell out
moooo mooo moo mooo mooo. Mo moo moooo-mooo mooooooo, mo mo mooo moo

that I was in the boat both times, first and last, and the last time
mooo M moo mo moo mooo mooo moooo, moooo moo mooo, moo moo mooo mooo

distinctly recognised a peculiar sort of huge mole under the whale's
mooooooooo mooooooooo m mooooooo mooo mo mooo mooo moooo moo moooo'm

eye, which I had observed there three years previous. I say three years,
moo, moooo M moo mooooooo moooo moooo moooo mooooooo. M moo moooo moooo,

but I am pretty sure it was more than that. Here are three instances,
moo M mo mooooo mooo mo moo mooo mooo mooo. Mooo moo moooo moooooooo,

then, which I personally know the truth of; but I have heard of many
mooo, moooo M mooooooooo mooo moo moooo mo; moo M mooo moooo mo mooo

other instances from persons whose veracity in the matter there is no
moooo moooooooo mooo moooooo moooo mooooooo mo moo mooooo moooo mo mo

good ground to impeach.
mooo mooooo mo moooooo.




Secondly: It is well known in the Sperm Whale Fishery, however ignorant
Mooooooo: Mo mo mooo moooo mo moo Moooo Moooo Moooooo, moooooo mooooooo

the world ashore may be of it, that there have been several memorable
moo moooo mooooo moo mo mo mo, mooo moooo mooo mooo moooooo moooooooo

historical instances where a particular whale in the ocean has been at
mooooooooo moooooooo moooo m mooooooooo moooo mo moo moooo moo mooo mo

distant times and places popularly cognisable. Why such a whale became
moooooo moooo moo mooooo moooooooo mooooooooo. Moo mooo m moooo mooooo

thus marked was not altogether and originally owing to his bodily
mooo mooooo moo moo mooooooooo moo mooooooooo moooo mo moo mooooo

peculiarities as distinguished from other whales; for however peculiar
moooooooooooo mo moooooooooooo mooo moooo mooooo; moo moooooo mooooooo

in that respect any chance whale may be, they soon put an end to his
mo mooo moooooo moo mooooo moooo moo mo, mooo mooo moo mo moo mo moo

peculiarities by killing him, and boiling him down into a peculiarly
moooooooooooo mo moooooo moo, moo moooooo moo mooo mooo m mooooooooo

valuable oil. No: the reason was this: that from the fatal experiences
mooooooo moo. Mo: moo mooooo moo mooo: mooo mooo moo moooo moooooooooo

of the fishery there hung a terrible prestige of perilousness about
mo moo moooooo moooo mooo m mooooooo mooooooo mo mooooooooooo moooo

such a whale as there did about Rinaldo Rinaldini, insomuch that
mooo m moooo mo moooo moo moooo Moooooo Moooooooo, mooooooo mooo

most fishermen were content to recognise him by merely touching their
mooo moooooooo mooo moooooo mo moooooooo moo mo mooooo mooooooo moooo

tarpaulins when he would be discovered lounging by them on the sea,
mooooooooo mooo mo moooo mo mooooooooo mooooooo mo mooo mo moo moo,

without seeking to cultivate a more intimate acquaintance. Like some
moooooo moooooo mo moooooooo m mooo mooooooo mooooooooooo. Mooo mooo

poor devils ashore that happen to know an irascible great man, they
mooo mooooo mooooo mooo mooooo mo mooo mo moooooooo moooo moo, mooo

make distant unobtrusive salutations to him in the street, lest if they
mooo moooooo moooooooooo moooooooooo mo moo mo moo mooooo, mooo mo mooo

pursued the acquaintance further, they might receive a summary thump for
moooooo moo mooooooooooo moooooo, mooo moooo moooooo m moooooo moooo moo

their presumption.
moooo moooooooooo.




But not only did each of these famous whales enjoy great individual
Moo moo mooo moo mooo mo moooo mooooo mooooo moooo moooo mooooooooo

celebrity--Nay, you may call it an ocean-wide renown; not only was he
moooooooo--Moo, moo moo mooo mo mo moooo-mooo mooooo; moo mooo moo mo

famous in life and now is immortal in forecastle stories after death,
mooooo mo mooo moo moo mo mooooooo mo mooooooooo moooooo moooo moooo,

but he was admitted into all the rights, privileges, and distinctions of
moo mo moo mooooooo mooo moo moo mooooo, mooooooooo, moo mooooooooooo mo

a name; had as much a name indeed as Cambyses or Caesar. Was it not so,
m mooo; moo mo mooo m mooo mooooo mo Mooooooo mo Mooooo. Moo mo moo mo,

O Timor Tom! thou famed leviathan, scarred like an iceberg, who so long
M Moooo Moo! mooo moooo moooooooo, moooooo mooo mo moooooo, moo mo mooo

did'st lurk in the Oriental straits of that name, whose spout was oft
moo'mo mooo mo moo Mooooooo moooooo mo mooo mooo, moooo moooo moo moo

seen from the palmy beach of Ombay? Was it not so, O New Zealand Jack!
mooo mooo moo moooo moooo mo Moooo? Moo mo moo mo, M Moo Moooooo Mooo!

thou terror of all cruisers that crossed their wakes in the vicinity of
mooo mooooo mo moo mooooooo mooo moooooo moooo moooo mo moo mooooooo mo

the Tattoo Land? Was it not so, O Morquan! King of Japan, whose lofty
moo Mooooo Mooo? Moo mo moo mo, M Moooooo! Mooo mo Moooo, moooo moooo

jet they say at times assumed the semblance of a snow-white cross
moo mooo moo mo moooo moooooo moo moooooooo mo m mooo-moooo moooo

against the sky? Was it not so, O Don Miguel! thou Chilian whale, marked
moooooo moo moo? Moo mo moo mo, M Moo Mooooo! mooo Moooooo moooo, mooooo

like an old tortoise with mystic hieroglyphics upon the back! In plain
mooo mo moo mooooooo mooo mooooo moooooooooooo mooo moo mooo! Mo moooo

prose, here are four whales as well known to the students of Cetacean
moooo, mooo moo mooo mooooo mo mooo moooo mo moo mooooooo mo Mooooooo

History as Marius or Sylla to the classic scholar.
Moooooo mo Mooooo mo Moooo mo moo moooooo moooooo.




But this is not all. New Zealand Tom and Don Miguel, after at various
Moo mooo mo moo moo. Moo Moooooo Moo moo Moo Mooooo, moooo mo moooooo

times creating great havoc among the boats of different vessels, were
moooo mooooooo moooo moooo moooo moo moooo mo moooooooo moooooo, mooo

finally gone in quest of, systematically hunted out, chased and killed
moooooo mooo mo moooo mo, mooooooooooooo mooooo moo, mooooo moo mooooo

by valiant whaling captains, who heaved up their anchors with
mo moooooo moooooo mooooooo, moo mooooo mo moooo moooooo mooo

that express object as much in view, as in setting out through the
mooo moooooo mooooo mo mooo mo mooo, mo mo moooooo moo moooooo moo

Narragansett Woods, Captain Butler of old had it in his mind to capture
Mooooooooooo Moooo, Moooooo Mooooo mo moo moo mo mo moo mooo mo moooooo

that notorious murderous savage Annawon, the headmost warrior of the
mooo moooooooo moooooooo mooooo Moooooo, moo mooooooo moooooo mo moo

Indian King Philip.
Mooooo Mooo Mooooo.




I do not know where I can find a better place than just here, to make
M mo moo mooo moooo M moo mooo m mooooo moooo mooo mooo mooo, mo mooo

mention of one or two other things, which to me seem important, as in
moooooo mo moo mo moo moooo mooooo, moooo mo mo mooo moooooooo, mo mo

printed form establishing in all respects the reasonableness of the
moooooo mooo mooooooooooo mo moo mooooooo moo mooooooooooooo mo moo

whole story of the White Whale, more especially the catastrophe. For
moooo moooo mo moo Moooo Moooo, mooo mooooooooo moo moooooooooo. Moo

this is one of those disheartening instances where truth requires full
mooo mo moo mo moooo moooooooooooo moooooooo moooo moooo mooooooo mooo

as much bolstering as error. So ignorant are most landsmen of some of
mo mooo mooooooooo mo moooo. Mo mooooooo moo mooo mooooooo mo mooo mo

the plainest and most palpable wonders of the world, that without
moo mooooooo moo mooo mooooooo moooooo mo moo moooo, mooo moooooo

some hints touching the plain facts, historical and otherwise, of the
mooo moooo mooooooo moo moooo moooo, mooooooooo moo moooooooo, mo moo

fishery, they might scout at Moby Dick as a monstrous fable, or still
moooooo, mooo moooo moooo mo Mooo Mooo mo m moooooooo moooo, mo moooo

worse and more detestable, a hideous and intolerable allegory.
moooo moo mooo mooooooooo, m moooooo moo moooooooooo mooooooo.




First: Though most men have some vague flitting ideas of the general
Moooo: Mooooo mooo moo mooo mooo moooo mooooooo moooo mo moo moooooo

perils of the grand fishery, yet they have nothing like a fixed, vivid
mooooo mo moo moooo moooooo, moo mooo mooo moooooo mooo m moooo, moooo

conception of those perils, and the frequency with which they recur.
mooooooooo mo moooo mooooo, moo moo moooooooo mooo moooo mooo moooo.

One reason perhaps is, that not one in fifty of the actual disasters and
Moo mooooo moooooo mo, mooo moo moo mo moooo mo moo mooooo moooooooo moo

deaths by casualties in the fishery, ever finds a public record at home,
mooooo mo mooooooooo mo moo moooooo, mooo moooo m mooooo mooooo mo mooo,

however transient and immediately forgotten that record. Do you suppose
moooooo moooooooo moo moooooooooo moooooooo mooo mooooo. Mo moo moooooo

that that poor fellow there, who this moment perhaps caught by the
mooo mooo mooo mooooo moooo, moo mooo mooooo moooooo mooooo mo moo

whale-line off the coast of New Guinea, is being carried down to the
moooo-mooo moo moo moooo mo Moo Mooooo, mo moooo moooooo mooo mo moo

bottom of the sea by the sounding leviathan--do you suppose that that
mooooo mo moo moo mo moo mooooooo moooooooo--mo moo moooooo mooo mooo

poor fellow's name will appear in the newspaper obituary you will read
mooo mooooo'm mooo mooo mooooo mo moo moooooooo mooooooo moo mooo mooo

to-morrow at your breakfast? No: because the mails are very irregular
mo-mooooo mo mooo moooooooo? Mo: moooooo moo moooo moo mooo moooooooo

between here and New Guinea. In fact, did you ever hear what might be
moooooo mooo moo Moo Mooooo. Mo mooo, moo moo mooo mooo mooo moooo mo

called regular news direct or indirect from New Guinea? Yet I tell you
mooooo moooooo mooo mooooo mo mooooooo mooo Moo Mooooo? Moo M mooo moo

that upon one particular voyage which I made to the Pacific, among many
mooo mooo moo mooooooooo mooooo moooo M mooo mo moo Moooooo, moooo mooo

others we spoke thirty different ships, every one of which had had a
mooooo mo moooo mooooo moooooooo moooo, moooo moo mo moooo moo moo m

death by a whale, some of them more than one, and three that had each
moooo mo m moooo, mooo mo mooo mooo mooo moo, moo moooo mooo moo mooo

lost a boat's crew. For God's sake, be economical with your lamps and
mooo m mooo'm mooo. Moo Moo'm mooo, mo mooooooooo mooo mooo moooo moo

candles! not a gallon you burn, but at least one drop of man's blood was
moooooo! moo m mooooo moo mooo, moo mo moooo moo mooo mo moo'm moooo moo

spilled for it.
moooooo moo mo.




Secondly: People ashore have indeed some indefinite idea that a whale is
Mooooooo: Mooooo mooooo mooo mooooo mooo mooooooooo mooo mooo m moooo mo

an enormous creature of enormous power; but I have ever found that when
mo mooooooo mooooooo mo mooooooo moooo; moo M mooo mooo moooo mooo mooo

narrating to them some specific example of this two-fold enormousness,
moooooooo mo mooo mooo mooooooo moooooo mo mooo moo-mooo mooooooooooo,

they have significantly complimented me upon my facetiousness; when, I
mooo mooo moooooooooooo mooooooooooo mo mooo mo moooooooooooo; mooo, M

declare upon my soul, I had no more idea of being facetious than Moses,
moooooo mooo mo mooo, M moo mo mooo mooo mo moooo moooooooo mooo Moooo,

when he wrote the history of the plagues of Egypt.
mooo mo moooo moo moooooo mo moo moooooo mo Moooo.




But fortunately the special point I here seek can be established upon
Moo moooooooooo moo moooooo moooo M mooo mooo moo mo moooooooooo mooo

testimony entirely independent of my own. That point is this: The Sperm
moooooooo mooooooo moooooooooo mo mo moo. Mooo moooo mo mooo: Moo Moooo

Whale is in some cases sufficiently powerful, knowing, and judiciously
Moooo mo mo mooo moooo mooooooooooo mooooooo, moooooo, moo moooooooooo

malicious, as with direct aforethought to stave in, utterly destroy, and
moooooooo, mo mooo mooooo mooooooooooo mo moooo mo, moooooo moooooo, moo

sink a large ship; and what is more, the Sperm Whale HAS done it.
mooo m moooo mooo; moo mooo mo mooo, moo Moooo Moooo MOO mooo mo.




First: In the year 1820 the ship Essex, Captain Pollard, of Nantucket,
Moooo: Mo moo mooo mooo moo mooo Moooo, Moooooo Moooooo, mo Moooooooo,

was cruising in the Pacific Ocean. One day she saw spouts, lowered her
moo mooooooo mo moo Moooooo Moooo. Moo moo moo moo mooooo, moooooo moo

boats, and gave chase to a shoal of sperm whales. Ere long, several of
moooo, moo mooo moooo mo m moooo mo moooo mooooo. Moo mooo, moooooo mo

the whales were wounded; when, suddenly, a very large whale escaping
moo mooooo mooo moooooo; mooo, mooooooo, m mooo moooo moooo mooooooo

from the boats, issued from the shoal, and bore directly down upon the
mooo moo moooo, mooooo mooo moo moooo, moo mooo mooooooo mooo mooo moo

ship. Dashing his forehead against her hull, he so stove her in, that in
mooo. Moooooo moo mooooooo moooooo moo mooo, mo mo moooo moo mo, mooo mo

less than "ten minutes" she settled down and fell over. Not a surviving
mooo mooo "moo moooooo" moo moooooo mooo moo mooo mooo. Moo m moooooooo

plank of her has been seen since. After the severest exposure, part of
moooo mo moo moo mooo mooo moooo. Moooo moo mooooooo mooooooo, mooo mo

the crew reached the land in their boats. Being returned home at last,
moo mooo moooooo moo mooo mo moooo moooo. Moooo mooooooo mooo mo mooo,

Captain Pollard once more sailed for the Pacific in command of another
Moooooo Moooooo mooo mooo mooooo moo moo Moooooo mo moooooo mo moooooo

ship, but the gods shipwrecked him again upon unknown rocks and
mooo, moo moo mooo moooooooooo moo moooo mooo moooooo moooo moo

breakers; for the second time his ship was utterly lost, and forthwith
mooooooo; moo moo mooooo mooo moo mooo moo moooooo mooo, moo moooooooo

forswearing the sea, he has never tempted it since. At this day Captain
moooooooooo moo moo, mo moo moooo moooooo mo moooo. Mo mooo moo Moooooo

Pollard is a resident of Nantucket. I have seen Owen Chace, who was
Moooooo mo m mooooooo mo Moooooooo. M mooo mooo Mooo Moooo, moo moo

chief mate of the Essex at the time of the tragedy; I have read his
moooo mooo mo moo Moooo mo moo mooo mo moo moooooo; M mooo mooo moo

plain and faithful narrative; I have conversed with his son; and all
moooo moo mooooooo moooooooo; M mooo moooooooo mooo moo moo; moo moo

this within a few miles of the scene of the catastrophe.*
mooo mooooo m moo moooo mo moo moooo mo moo moooooooooo.*







*The following are extracts from Chace's narrative: "Every fact seemed
*Moo moooooooo moo mooooooo mooo Moooo'm moooooooo: "Moooo mooo mooooo

to warrant me in concluding that it was anything but chance which
mo moooooo mo mo mooooooooo mooo mo moo mooooooo moo mooooo moooo

directed his operations; he made two several attacks upon the ship, at
mooooooo moo mooooooooo; mo mooo moo moooooo moooooo mooo moo mooo, mo

a short interval between them, both of which, according to their
m moooo mooooooo moooooo mooo, mooo mo moooo, moooooooo mo moooo

direction, were calculated to do us the most injury, by being made
moooooooo, mooo mooooooooo mo mo mo moo mooo mooooo, mo moooo mooo

ahead, and thereby combining the speed of the two objects for the shock;
moooo, moo moooooo moooooooo moo moooo mo moo moo moooooo moo moo moooo;

to effect which, the exact manoeuvres which he made were necessary. His
mo mooooo moooo, moo moooo mooooooooo moooo mo mooo mooo moooooooo. Moo

aspect was most horrible, and such as indicated resentment and fury. He
mooooo moo mooo mooooooo, moo mooo mo moooooooo mooooooooo moo mooo. Mo

came directly from the shoal which we had just before entered, and in
mooo mooooooo mooo moo moooo moooo mo moo mooo mooooo moooooo, moo mo

which we had struck three of his companions, as if fired with revenge
moooo mo moo mooooo moooo mo moo mooooooooo, mo mo moooo mooo moooooo

for their sufferings." Again: "At all events, the whole circumstances
moo moooo mooooooooo." Moooo: "Mo moo mooooo, moo moooo moooooooooooo

taken together, all happening before my own eyes, and producing, at the
moooo mooooooo, moo moooooooo mooooo mo moo mooo, moo moooooooo, mo moo

time, impressions in my mind of decided, calculating mischief, on the
mooo, moooooooooo mo mo mooo mo moooooo, moooooooooo mooooooo, mo moo

part of the whale (many of which impressions I cannot now recall),
mooo mo moo moooo (mooo mo moooo moooooooooo M mooooo moo mooooo),

induce me to be satisfied that I am correct in my opinion."
mooooo mo mo mo moooooooo mooo M mo moooooo mo mo moooooo."




Here are his reflections some time after quitting the ship, during
Mooo moo moo moooooooooo mooo mooo moooo mooooooo moo mooo, mooooo

a black night in an open boat, when almost despairing of reaching any
m moooo moooo mo mo mooo mooo, mooo mooooo mooooooooo mo mooooooo moo

hospitable shore. "The dark ocean and swelling waters were nothing; the
mooooooooo moooo. "Moo mooo moooo moo mooooooo mooooo mooo moooooo; moo

fears of being swallowed up by some dreadful tempest, or dashed
moooo mo moooo moooooooo mo mo mooo mooooooo moooooo, mo mooooo

upon hidden rocks, with all the other ordinary subjects of fearful
mooo mooooo moooo, mooo moo moo moooo mooooooo mooooooo mo moooooo

contemplation, seemed scarcely entitled to a moment's thought; the
moooooooooooo, mooooo mooooooo mooooooo mo m mooooo'm moooooo; moo

dismal looking wreck, and THE HORRID ASPECT AND REVENGE OF THE WHALE,
mooooo moooooo moooo, moo MOO MOOOOO MOOOOO MOO MOOOOOO MO MOO MOOOO,

wholly engrossed my reflections, until day again made its appearance."
mooooo moooooooo mo moooooooooo, moooo moo moooo mooo moo mooooooooo."




In another place--p. 45,--he speaks of "THE MYSTERIOUS AND MORTAL ATTACK
Mo moooooo moooo--m. mo,--mo mooooo mo "MOO MOOOOOOOOO MOO MOOOOO MOOOOO

OF THE ANIMAL."
MO MOO MOOOOO."







Secondly: The ship Union, also of Nantucket, was in the year 1807
Mooooooo: Moo mooo Moooo, mooo mo Moooooooo, moo mo moo mooo mooo

totally lost off the Azores by a similar onset, but the authentic
moooooo mooo moo moo Mooooo mo m moooooo moooo, moo moo moooooooo

particulars of this catastrophe I have never chanced to encounter,
moooooooooo mo mooo moooooooooo M mooo moooo moooooo mo moooooooo,

though from the whale hunters I have now and then heard casual allusions
mooooo mooo moo moooo moooooo M mooo moo moo mooo moooo mooooo moooooooo

to it.
mo mo.




Thirdly: Some eighteen or twenty years ago Commodore J---, then
Moooooo: Mooo mooooooo mo mooooo moooo moo Moooooooo M---, mooo

commanding an American sloop-of-war of the first class, happened to be
mooooooooo mo Mooooooo moooo-mo-moo mo moo moooo moooo, mooooooo mo mo

dining with a party of whaling captains, on board a Nantucket ship in
mooooo mooo m moooo mo moooooo mooooooo, mo moooo m Moooooooo mooo mo

the harbor of Oahu, Sandwich Islands. Conversation turning upon whales,
moo mooooo mo Mooo, Mooooooo Moooooo. Mooooooooooo moooooo mooo mooooo,

the Commodore was pleased to be sceptical touching the amazing strength
moo Moooooooo moo moooooo mo mo moooooooo mooooooo moo moooooo mooooooo

ascribed to them by the professional gentlemen present. He peremptorily
mooooooo mo mooo mo moo mooooooooooo moooooooo moooooo. Mo mooooooooooo

denied for example, that any whale could so smite his stout sloop-of-war
mooooo moo moooooo, mooo moo moooo moooo mo moooo moo moooo moooo-mo-moo

as to cause her to leak so much as a thimbleful. Very good; but there
mo mo moooo moo mo mooo mo mooo mo m mooooooooo. Mooo mooo; moo moooo

is more coming. Some weeks after, the Commodore set sail in this
mo mooo mooooo. Mooo moooo moooo, moo Moooooooo moo mooo mo mooo

impregnable craft for Valparaiso. But he was stopped on the way by a
moooooooooo moooo moo Mooooooooo. Moo mo moo moooooo mo moo moo mo m

portly sperm whale, that begged a few moments' confidential business
mooooo moooo moooo, mooo mooooo m moo moooooo' mooooooooooo mooooooo

with him. That business consisted in fetching the Commodore's craft such
mooo moo. Mooo mooooooo moooooooo mo mooooooo moo Moooooooo'm moooo mooo

a thwack, that with all his pumps going he made straight for the nearest
m mooooo, mooo mooo moo moo moooo moooo mo mooo mooooooo moo moo moooooo

port to heave down and repair. I am not superstitious, but I consider
mooo mo moooo mooo moo mooooo. M mo moo moooooooooooo, moo M mooooooo

the Commodore's interview with that whale as providential. Was not Saul
moo Moooooooo'm moooooooo mooo mooo moooo mo mooooooooooo. Moo moo Mooo

of Tarsus converted from unbelief by a similar fright? I tell you, the
mo Mooooo moooooooo mooo mooooooo mo m moooooo mooooo? M mooo moo, moo

sperm whale will stand no nonsense.
moooo moooo mooo moooo mo mooooooo.




I will now refer you to Langsdorff's Voyages for a little circumstance
M mooo moo moooo moo mo Mooooooooo'm Moooooo moo m mooooo mooooooooooo

in point, peculiarly interesting to the writer hereof. Langsdorff, you
mo moooo, mooooooooo moooooooooo mo moo mooooo mooooo. Mooooooooo, moo

must know by the way, was attached to the Russian Admiral Krusenstern's
mooo mooo mo moo moo, moo mooooooo mo moo Moooooo Moooooo Moooooooooo'm

famous Discovery Expedition in the beginning of the present century.
mooooo Moooooooo Mooooooooo mo moo moooooooo mo moo moooooo moooooo.

Captain Langsdorff thus begins his seventeenth chapter:
Moooooo Mooooooooo mooo mooooo moo moooooooooo moooooo:




"By the thirteenth of May our ship was ready to sail, and the next day
"Mo moo mooooooooo mo Moo moo mooo moo moooo mo mooo, moo moo mooo moo

we were out in the open sea, on our way to Ochotsh. The weather was very
mo mooo moo mo moo mooo moo, mo moo moo mo Moooooo. Moo moooooo moo mooo

clear and fine, but so intolerably cold that we were obliged to keep on
moooo moo mooo, moo mo moooooooooo mooo mooo mo mooo moooooo mo mooo mo

our fur clothing. For some days we had very little wind; it was not
moo moo mooooooo. Moo mooo mooo mo moo mooo mooooo mooo; mo moo moo

till the nineteenth that a brisk gale from the northwest sprang up. An
mooo moo mooooooooo mooo m moooo mooo mooo moo moooooooo mooooo mo. Mo

uncommon large whale, the body of which was larger than the ship itself,
mooooooo moooo moooo, moo mooo mo moooo moo mooooo mooo moo mooo mooooo,

lay almost at the surface of the water, but was not perceived by any
moo mooooo mo moo moooooo mo moo moooo, moo moo moo moooooooo mo moo

one on board till the moment when the ship, which was in full sail,
moo mo moooo mooo moo mooooo mooo moo mooo, moooo moo mo mooo mooo,

was almost upon him, so that it was impossible to prevent its striking
moo mooooo mooo moo, mo mooo mo moo mooooooooo mo moooooo moo mooooooo

against him. We were thus placed in the most imminent danger, as this
moooooo moo. Mo mooo mooo mooooo mo moo mooo mooooooo mooooo, mo mooo

gigantic creature, setting up its back, raised the ship three feet at
mooooooo mooooooo, moooooo mo moo mooo, mooooo moo mooo moooo mooo mo

least out of the water. The masts reeled, and the sails fell altogether,
moooo moo mo moo moooo. Moo moooo mooooo, moo moo moooo mooo mooooooooo,

while we who were below all sprang instantly upon the deck, concluding
moooo mo moo mooo moooo moo mooooo moooooooo mooo moo mooo, mooooooooo

that we had struck upon some rock; instead of this we saw the monster
mooo mo moo mooooo mooo mooo mooo; moooooo mo mooo mo moo moo moooooo

sailing off with the utmost gravity and solemnity. Captain D'Wolf
moooooo moo mooo moo mooooo moooooo moo moooooooo. Moooooo M'Mooo

applied immediately to the pumps to examine whether or not the vessel
moooooo moooooooooo mo moo moooo mo moooooo moooooo mo moo moo mooooo

had received any damage from the shock, but we found that very happily
moo mooooooo moo mooooo mooo moo moooo, moo mo moooo mooo mooo moooooo

it had escaped entirely uninjured."
mo moo moooooo mooooooo moooooooo."




Now, the Captain D'Wolf here alluded to as commanding the ship in
Moo, moo Moooooo M'Mooo mooo moooooo mo mo mooooooooo moo mooo mo

question, is a New Englander, who, after a long life of unusual
mooooooo, mo m Moo Moooooooo, moo, moooo m mooo mooo mo moooooo

adventures as a sea-captain, this day resides in the village of
mooooooooo mo m moo-moooooo, mooo moo moooooo mo moo moooooo mo

Dorchester near Boston. I have the honour of being a nephew of his. I
Mooooooooo mooo Mooooo. M mooo moo mooooo mo moooo m mooooo mo moo. M

have particularly questioned him concerning this passage in Langsdorff.
mooo mooooooooooo mooooooooo moo mooooooooo mooo moooooo mo Mooooooooo.

He substantiates every word. The ship, however, was by no means a large
Mo moooooooooooo moooo mooo. Moo mooo, moooooo, moo mo mo moooo m moooo

one: a Russian craft built on the Siberian coast, and purchased by my
moo: m Moooooo moooo moooo mo moo Mooooooo moooo, moo moooooooo mo mo

uncle after bartering away the vessel in which he sailed from home.
moooo moooo moooooooo mooo moo mooooo mo moooo mo mooooo mooo mooo.




In that up and down manly book of old-fashioned adventure, so full, too,
Mo mooo mo moo mooo moooo mooo mo moo-moooooooo moooooooo, mo mooo, moo,

of honest wonders--the voyage of Lionel Wafer, one of ancient Dampier's
mo mooooo moooooo--moo mooooo mo Mooooo Moooo, moo mo moooooo Moooooo'm

old chums--I found a little matter set down so like that just quoted
moo moooo--M moooo m mooooo mooooo moo mooo mo mooo mooo mooo mooooo

from Langsdorff, that I cannot forbear inserting it here for a
mooo Mooooooooo, mooo M mooooo moooooo moooooooo mo mooo moo m

corroborative example, if such be needed.
moooooooooooo moooooo, mo mooo mo mooooo.




Lionel, it seems, was on his way to "John Ferdinando," as he calls
Mooooo, mo moooo, moo mo moo moo mo "Mooo Mooooooooo," mo mo moooo

the modern Juan Fernandes. "In our way thither," he says, "about four
moo mooooo Mooo Moooooooo. "Mo moo moo moooooo," mo mooo, "moooo mooo

o'clock in the morning, when we were about one hundred and fifty leagues
m'moooo mo moo moooooo, mooo mo mooo moooo moo moooooo moo moooo moooooo

from the Main of America, our ship felt a terrible shock, which put our
mooo moo Mooo mo Moooooo, moo mooo mooo m mooooooo moooo, moooo moo moo

men in such consternation that they could hardly tell where they were
moo mo mooo moooooooooooo mooo mooo moooo mooooo mooo moooo mooo mooo

or what to think; but every one began to prepare for death. And, indeed,
mo mooo mo moooo; moo moooo moo moooo mo moooooo moo moooo. Moo, mooooo,

the shock was so sudden and violent, that we took it for granted the
moo moooo moo mo mooooo moo moooooo, mooo mo mooo mo moo moooooo moo

ship had struck against a rock; but when the amazement was a little
mooo moo mooooo moooooo m mooo; moo mooo moo moooooooo moo m mooooo

over, we cast the lead, and sounded, but found no ground..... The
mooo, mo mooo moo mooo, moo moooooo, moo moooo mo mooooo..... Moo

suddenness of the shock made the guns leap in their carriages, and
mooooooooo mo moo moooo mooo moo mooo mooo mo moooo moooooooo, moo

several of the men were shaken out of their hammocks. Captain Davis, who
moooooo mo moo moo mooo mooooo moo mo moooo mooooooo. Moooooo Moooo, moo

lay with his head on a gun, was thrown out of his cabin!" Lionel then
moo mooo moo mooo mo m moo, moo mooooo moo mo moo moooo!" Mooooo mooo

goes on to impute the shock to an earthquake, and seems to substantiate
mooo mo mo mooooo moo moooo mo mo mooooooooo, moo moooo mo mooooooooooo

the imputation by stating that a great earthquake, somewhere about
moo mooooooooo mo moooooo mooo m moooo mooooooooo, moooooooo moooo

that time, did actually do great mischief along the Spanish land. But
mooo mooo, moo mooooooo mo moooo mooooooo moooo moo Moooooo mooo. Moo

I should not much wonder if, in the darkness of that early hour of the
M mooooo moo mooo mooooo mo, mo moo mooooooo mo mooo moooo mooo mo moo

morning, the shock was after all caused by an unseen whale vertically
moooooo, moo moooo moo moooo moo mooooo mo mo mooooo moooo mooooooooo

bumping the hull from beneath.
moooooo moo mooo mooo moooooo.




I might proceed with several more examples, one way or another known to
M moooo moooooo mooo moooooo mooo mooooooo, moo moo mo moooooo moooo mo

me, of the great power and malice at times of the sperm whale. In more
mo, mo moo moooo moooo moo mooooo mo moooo mo moo moooo moooo. Mo mooo

than one instance, he has been known, not only to chase the assailing
mooo moo mooooooo, mo moo mooo moooo, moo mooo mo moooo moo moooooooo

boats back to their ships, but to pursue the ship itself, and long
moooo mooo mo moooo moooo, moo mo mooooo moo mooo mooooo, moo mooo

withstand all the lances hurled at him from its decks. The English ship
moooooooo moo moo mooooo mooooo mo moo mooo moo moooo. Moo Moooooo mooo

Pusie Hall can tell a story on that head; and, as for his strength,
Moooo Mooo moo mooo m moooo mo mooo mooo; moo, mo moo moo mooooooo,

let me say, that there have been examples where the lines attached to a
moo mo moo, mooo moooo mooo mooo mooooooo moooo moo moooo mooooooo mo m

running sperm whale have, in a calm, been transferred to the ship, and
moooooo moooo moooo mooo, mo m mooo, mooo moooooooooo mo moo mooo, moo

secured there; the whale towing her great hull through the water, as a
moooooo moooo; moo moooo mooooo moo moooo mooo moooooo moo moooo, mo m

horse walks off with a cart. Again, it is very often observed that, if
moooo moooo moo mooo m mooo. Moooo, mo mo mooo moooo mooooooo mooo, mo

the sperm whale, once struck, is allowed time to rally, he then acts,
moo moooo moooo, mooo mooooo, mo moooooo mooo mo moooo, mo mooo mooo,

not so often with blind rage, as with wilful, deliberate designs of
moo mo moooo mooo moooo mooo, mo mooo mooooo, mooooooooo moooooo mo

destruction to his pursuers; nor is it without conveying some eloquent
moooooooooo mo moo mooooooo; moo mo mo moooooo moooooooo mooo mooooooo

indication of his character, that upon being attacked he will frequently
mooooooooo mo moo moooooooo, mooo mooo moooo mooooooo mo mooo mooooooooo

open his mouth, and retain it in that dread expansion for several
mooo moo moooo, moo mooooo mo mo mooo moooo moooooooo moo moooooo

consecutive minutes. But I must be content with only one more and a
moooooooooo moooooo. Moo M mooo mo moooooo mooo mooo moo mooo moo m

concluding illustration; a remarkable and most significant one, by which
mooooooooo mooooooooooo; m mooooooooo moo mooo moooooooooo moo, mo moooo

you will not fail to see, that not only is the most marvellous event in
moo mooo moo mooo mo moo, mooo moo mooo mo moo mooo mooooooooo moooo mo

this book corroborated by plain facts of the present day, but that these
mooo mooo mooooooooooo mo moooo moooo mo moo moooooo moo, moo mooo moooo

marvels (like all marvels) are mere repetitions of the ages; so that for
moooooo (mooo moo moooooo) moo mooo moooooooooo mo moo mooo; mo mooo moo

the millionth time we say amen with Solomon--Verily there is nothing new
moo moooooooo mooo mo moo mooo mooo Moooooo--Mooooo moooo mo moooooo moo

under the sun.
moooo moo moo.




In the sixth Christian century lived Procopius, a Christian magistrate
Mo moo moooo Moooooooo moooooo moooo Moooooooo, m Moooooooo mooooooooo

of Constantinople, in the days when Justinian was Emperor and Belisarius
mo Mooooooooooooo, mo moo mooo mooo Moooooooo moo Moooooo moo Mooooooooo

general. As many know, he wrote the history of his own times, a work
moooooo. Mo mooo mooo, mo moooo moo moooooo mo moo moo moooo, m mooo

every way of uncommon value. By the best authorities, he has always been
moooo moo mo mooooooo moooo. Mo moo mooo moooooooooo, mo moo mooooo mooo

considered a most trustworthy and unexaggerating historian, except in
mooooooooo m mooo moooooooooo moo mooooooooooooo moooooooo, mooooo mo

some one or two particulars, not at all affecting the matter presently
mooo moo mo moo moooooooooo, moo mo moo moooooooo moo mooooo moooooooo

to be mentioned.
mo mo moooooooo.




Now, in this history of his, Procopius mentions that, during the term
Moo, mo mooo moooooo mo moo, Moooooooo mooooooo mooo, mooooo moo mooo

of his prefecture at Constantinople, a great sea-monster was captured
mo moo mooooooooo mo Mooooooooooooo, m moooo moo-moooooo moo mooooooo

in the neighboring Propontis, or Sea of Marmora, after having destroyed
mo moo moooooooooo Moooooooo, mo Moo mo Moooooo, moooo mooooo moooooooo

vessels at intervals in those waters for a period of more than fifty
moooooo mo moooooooo mo moooo mooooo moo m mooooo mo mooo mooo moooo

years. A fact thus set down in substantial history cannot easily be
moooo. M mooo mooo moo mooo mo moooooooooo moooooo mooooo mooooo mo

gainsaid. Nor is there any reason it should be. Of what precise species
mooooooo. Moo mo moooo moo mooooo mo mooooo mo. Mo mooo moooooo moooooo

this sea-monster was, is not mentioned. But as he destroyed ships, as
mooo moo-moooooo moo, mo moo moooooooo. Moo mo mo moooooooo moooo, mo

well as for other reasons, he must have been a whale; and I am strongly
mooo mo moo moooo moooooo, mo mooo mooo mooo m moooo; moo M mo mooooooo

inclined to think a sperm whale. And I will tell you why. For a long
mooooooo mo moooo m moooo moooo. Moo M mooo mooo moo moo. Moo m mooo

time I fancied that the sperm whale had been always unknown in the
mooo M moooooo mooo moo moooo moooo moo mooo mooooo moooooo mo moo

Mediterranean and the deep waters connecting with it. Even now I am
Moooooooooooo moo moo mooo mooooo mooooooooo mooo mo. Mooo moo M mo

certain that those seas are not, and perhaps never can be, in the
moooooo mooo moooo mooo moo moo, moo moooooo moooo moo mo, mo moo

present constitution of things, a place for his habitual gregarious
moooooo mooooooooooo mo mooooo, m moooo moo moo mooooooo mooooooooo

resort. But further investigations have recently proved to me, that in
mooooo. Moo moooooo mooooooooooooo mooo mooooooo mooooo mo mo, mooo mo

modern times there have been isolated instances of the presence of the
mooooo moooo moooo mooo mooo mooooooo moooooooo mo moo mooooooo mo moo

sperm whale in the Mediterranean. I am told, on good authority, that
moooo moooo mo moo Moooooooooooo. M mo mooo, mo mooo moooooooo, mooo

on the Barbary coast, a Commodore Davis of the British navy found
mo moo Moooooo moooo, m Moooooooo Moooo mo moo Moooooo mooo moooo

the skeleton of a sperm whale. Now, as a vessel of war readily passes
moo mooooooo mo m moooo moooo. Moo, mo m mooooo mo moo moooooo mooooo

through the Dardanelles, hence a sperm whale could, by the same route,
moooooo moo Moooooooooo, moooo m moooo moooo moooo, mo moo mooo moooo,

pass out of the Mediterranean into the Propontis.
mooo moo mo moo Moooooooooooo mooo moo Moooooooo.




In the Propontis, as far as I can learn, none of that peculiar substance
Mo moo Moooooooo, mo moo mo M moo moooo, mooo mo mooo mooooooo moooooooo

called BRIT is to be found, the aliment of the right whale. But I have
mooooo MOOO mo mo mo moooo, moo moooooo mo moo moooo moooo. Moo M mooo

every reason to believe that the food of the sperm whale--squid or
moooo mooooo mo moooooo mooo moo mooo mo moo moooo moooo--moooo mo

cuttle-fish--lurks at the bottom of that sea, because large creatures,
mooooo-mooo--moooo mo moo mooooo mo mooo moo, moooooo moooo moooooooo,

but by no means the largest of that sort, have been found at its
moo mo mo moooo moo moooooo mo mooo mooo, mooo mooo moooo mo moo

surface. If, then, you properly put these statements together, and
moooooo. Mo, mooo, moo mooooooo moo moooo mooooooooo mooooooo, moo

reason upon them a bit, you will clearly perceive that, according to all
mooooo mooo mooo m moo, moo mooo moooooo mooooooo mooo, moooooooo mo moo

human reasoning, Procopius's sea-monster, that for half a century stove
moooo moooooooo, Moooooooo'm moo-moooooo, mooo moo mooo m moooooo moooo

the ships of a Roman Emperor, must in all probability have been a sperm
moo moooo mo m Moooo Moooooo, mooo mo moo moooooooooo mooo mooo m moooo

whale.
moooo.










CHAPTER 46. Surmises.
MOOOOOO mo. Mooooooo.







Though, consumed with the hot fire of his purpose, Ahab in all his
Mooooo, mooooooo mooo moo moo mooo mo moo moooooo, Mooo mo moo moo

thoughts and actions ever had in view the ultimate capture of Moby Dick;
mooooooo moo moooooo mooo moo mo mooo moo mooooooo moooooo mo Mooo Mooo;

though he seemed ready to sacrifice all mortal interests to that one
mooooo mo mooooo moooo mo moooooooo moo mooooo moooooooo mo mooo moo

passion; nevertheless it may have been that he was by nature and long
moooooo; mooooooooooo mo moo mooo mooo mooo mo moo mo mooooo moo mooo

habituation far too wedded to a fiery whaleman's ways, altogether to
moooooooooo moo moo mooooo mo m moooo mooooooo'm mooo, mooooooooo mo

abandon the collateral prosecution of the voyage. Or at least if
moooooo moo mooooooooo moooooooooo mo moo mooooo. Mo mo moooo mo

this were otherwise, there were not wanting other motives much more
mooo mooo moooooooo, moooo mooo moo moooooo moooo moooooo mooo mooo

influential with him. It would be refining too much, perhaps, even
moooooooooo mooo moo. Mo moooo mo mooooooo moo mooo, moooooo, mooo

considering his monomania, to hint that his vindictiveness towards the
moooooooooo moo moooooooo, mo mooo mooo moo mooooooooooooo moooooo moo

White Whale might have possibly extended itself in some degree to all
Moooo Moooo moooo mooo mooooooo mooooooo mooooo mo mooo mooooo mo moo

sperm whales, and that the more monsters he slew by so much the more he
moooo mooooo, moo mooo moo mooo mooooooo mo mooo mo mo mooo moo mooo mo

multiplied the chances that each subsequently encountered whale would
mooooooooo moo moooooo mooo mooo mooooooooooo moooooooooo moooo moooo

prove to be the hated one he hunted. But if such an hypothesis be indeed
moooo mo mo moo moooo moo mo mooooo. Moo mo mooo mo mooooooooo mo mooooo

exceptionable, there were still additional considerations which, though
moooooooooooo, moooo mooo moooo mooooooooo mooooooooooooo moooo, mooooo

not so strictly according with the wildness of his ruling passion, yet
moo mo mooooooo moooooooo mooo moo mooooooo mo moo mooooo moooooo, moo

were by no means incapable of swaying him.
mooo mo mo moooo moooooooo mo moooooo moo.




To accomplish his object Ahab must use tools; and of all tools used in
Mo mooooooooo moo mooooo Mooo mooo moo moooo; moo mo moo moooo mooo mo

the shadow of the moon, men are most apt to get out of order. He knew,
moo mooooo mo moo mooo, moo moo mooo moo mo moo moo mo moooo. Mo mooo,

for example, that however magnetic his ascendency in some respects was
moo moooooo, mooo moooooo mooooooo moo mooooooooo mo mooo mooooooo moo

over Starbuck, yet that ascendency did not cover the complete spiritual
mooo Mooooooo, moo mooo mooooooooo moo moo moooo moo mooooooo moooooooo

man any more than mere corporeal superiority involves intellectual
moo moo mooo mooo mooo moooooooo moooooooooo mooooooo mooooooooooo

mastership; for to the purely spiritual, the intellectual but stand in a
mooooooooo; moo mo moo mooooo moooooooo, moo mooooooooooo moo moooo mo m

sort of corporeal relation. Starbuck's body and Starbuck's coerced will
mooo mo moooooooo mooooooo. Mooooooo'm mooo moo Mooooooo'm moooooo mooo

were Ahab's, so long as Ahab kept his magnet at Starbuck's brain; still
mooo Mooo'm, mo mooo mo Mooo mooo moo mooooo mo Mooooooo'm moooo; moooo

he knew that for all this the chief mate, in his soul, abhorred his
mo mooo mooo moo moo mooo moo moooo mooo, mo moo mooo, mooooooo moo

captain's quest, and could he, would joyfully disintegrate himself from
moooooo'm moooo, moo moooo mo, moooo mooooooo mooooooooooo moooooo mooo

it, or even frustrate it. It might be that a long interval would elapse
mo, mo mooo moooooooo mo. Mo moooo mo mooo m mooo mooooooo moooo mooooo

ere the White Whale was seen. During that long interval Starbuck
moo moo Moooo Moooo moo mooo. Mooooo mooo mooo mooooooo Mooooooo

would ever be apt to fall into open relapses of rebellion against his
moooo mooo mo moo mo mooo mooo mooo mooooooo mo moooooooo moooooo moo

captain's leadership, unless some ordinary, prudential, circumstantial
moooooo'm mooooooooo, mooooo mooo mooooooo, mooooooooo, mooooooooooooo

influences were brought to bear upon him. Not only that, but the subtle
mooooooooo mooo moooooo mo mooo mooo moo. Moo mooo mooo, moo moo mooooo

insanity of Ahab respecting Moby Dick was noways more significantly
mooooooo mo Mooo mooooooooo Mooo Mooo moo mooooo mooo moooooooooooo

manifested than in his superlative sense and shrewdness in foreseeing
mooooooooo mooo mo moo moooooooooo moooo moo mooooooooo mo mooooooooo

that, for the present, the hunt should in some way be stripped of that
mooo, moo moo moooooo, moo mooo mooooo mo mooo moo mo mooooooo mo mooo

strange imaginative impiousness which naturally invested it; that
moooooo moooooooooo moooooooooo moooo moooooooo mooooooo mo; mooo

the full terror of the voyage must be kept withdrawn into the obscure
moo mooo mooooo mo moo mooooo mooo mo mooo moooooooo mooo moo moooooo

background (for few men's courage is proof against protracted meditation
mooooooooo (moo moo moo'm moooooo mo moooo moooooo mooooooooo mooooooooo

unrelieved by action); that when they stood their long night watches,
mooooooooo mo mooooo); mooo mooo mooo moooo moooo mooo moooo moooooo,

his officers and men must have some nearer things to think of than Moby
moo mooooooo moo moo mooo mooo mooo mooooo mooooo mo moooo mo mooo Mooo

Dick. For however eagerly and impetuously the savage crew had hailed the
Mooo. Moo moooooo moooooo moo moooooooooo moo mooooo mooo moo mooooo moo

announcement of his quest; yet all sailors of all sorts are more or less
mooooooooooo mo moo moooo; moo moo moooooo mo moo moooo moo mooo mo mooo

capricious and unreliable--they live in the varying outer weather, and
mooooooooo moo mooooooooo--mooo mooo mo moo moooooo moooo moooooo, moo

they inhale its fickleness--and when retained for any object remote and
mooo mooooo moo mooooooooo--moo mooo mooooooo moo moo mooooo mooooo moo

blank in the pursuit, however promissory of life and passion in the
moooo mo moo moooooo, moooooo mooooooooo mo mooo moo moooooo mo moo

end, it is above all things requisite that temporary interests and
moo, mo mo moooo moo mooooo moooooooo mooo moooooooo moooooooo moo

employments should intervene and hold them healthily suspended for the
moooooooooo mooooo moooooooo moo mooo mooo moooooooo moooooooo moo moo

final dash.
moooo mooo.




Nor was Ahab unmindful of another thing. In times of strong emotion
Moo moo Mooo moooooooo mo moooooo moooo. Mo moooo mo mooooo moooooo

mankind disdain all base considerations; but such times are evanescent.
moooooo moooooo moo mooo mooooooooooooo; moo mooo moooo moo mooooooooo.

The permanent constitutional condition of the manufactured man, thought
Moo moooooooo mooooooooooooo moooooooo mo moo mooooooooooo moo, moooooo

Ahab, is sordidness. Granting that the White Whale fully incites the
Mooo, mo mooooooooo. Mooooooo mooo moo Moooo Moooo moooo moooooo moo

hearts of this my savage crew, and playing round their savageness even
mooooo mo mooo mo mooooo mooo, moo moooooo moooo moooo mooooooooo mooo

breeds a certain generous knight-errantism in them, still, while for the
mooooo m moooooo mooooooo mooooo-moooooooo mo mooo, moooo, moooo moo moo

love of it they give chase to Moby Dick, they must also have food
mooo mo mo mooo mooo moooo mo Mooo Mooo, mooo mooo mooo mooo mooo

for their more common, daily appetites. For even the high lifted and
moo moooo mooo mooooo, moooo moooooooo. Moo mooo moo mooo mooooo moo

chivalric Crusaders of old times were not content to traverse two
moooooooo Moooooooo mo moo moooo mooo moo moooooo mo mooooooo moo

thousand miles of land to fight for their holy sepulchre, without
mooooooo moooo mo mooo mo moooo moo moooo mooo moooooooo, moooooo

committing burglaries, picking pockets, and gaining other pious
mooooooooo mooooooooo, moooooo moooooo, moo moooooo moooo moooo

perquisites by the way. Had they been strictly held to their one final
moooooooooo mo moo moo. Moo mooo mooo mooooooo mooo mo moooo moo moooo

and romantic object--that final and romantic object, too many would have
moo mooooooo mooooo--mooo moooo moo mooooooo mooooo, moo mooo moooo mooo

turned from in disgust. I will not strip these men, thought Ahab, of all
mooooo mooo mo moooooo. M mooo moo moooo moooo moo, moooooo Mooo, mo moo

hopes of cash--aye, cash. They may scorn cash now; but let some months
moooo mo mooo--moo, mooo. Mooo moo moooo mooo moo; moo moo mooo mooooo

go by, and no perspective promise of it to them, and then this same
mo mo, moo mo moooooooooo moooooo mo mo mo mooo, moo mooo mooo mooo

quiescent cash all at once mutinying in them, this same cash would soon
moooooooo mooo moo mo mooo moooooooo mo mooo, mooo mooo mooo moooo mooo

cashier Ahab.
moooooo Mooo.




Nor was there wanting still another precautionary motive more related
Moo moo moooo moooooo moooo moooooo moooooooooooo mooooo mooo moooooo

to Ahab personally. Having impulsively, it is probable, and perhaps
mo Mooo mooooooooo. Mooooo moooooooooo, mo mo mooooooo, moo moooooo

somewhat prematurely revealed the prime but private purpose of the
mooooooo moooooooooo mooooooo moo moooo moo moooooo moooooo mo moo

Pequod's voyage, Ahab was now entirely conscious that, in so doing,
Mooooo'm mooooo, Mooo moo moo mooooooo moooooooo mooo, mo mo moooo,

he had indirectly laid himself open to the unanswerable charge of
mo moo mooooooooo mooo moooooo mooo mo moo mooooooooooo mooooo mo

usurpation; and with perfect impunity, both moral and legal, his crew
mooooooooo; moo mooo moooooo mooooooo, mooo moooo moo moooo, moo mooo

if so disposed, and to that end competent, could refuse all further
mo mo mooooooo, moo mo mooo moo moooooooo, moooo mooooo moo moooooo

obedience to him, and even violently wrest from him the command. From
moooooooo mo moo, moo mooo moooooooo moooo mooo moo moo moooooo. Mooo

even the barely hinted imputation of usurpation, and the possible
mooo moo mooooo mooooo mooooooooo mo mooooooooo, moo moo mooooooo

consequences of such a suppressed impression gaining ground, Ahab must
mooooooooooo mo mooo m mooooooooo mooooooooo moooooo mooooo, Mooo mooo

of course have been most anxious to protect himself. That protection
mo mooooo mooo mooo mooo moooooo mo moooooo moooooo. Mooo mooooooooo

could only consist in his own predominating brain and heart and hand,
moooo mooo moooooo mo moo moo moooooooooooo moooo moo moooo moo mooo,

backed by a heedful, closely calculating attention to every minute
mooooo mo m moooooo, moooooo moooooooooo moooooooo mo moooo mooooo

atmospheric influence which it was possible for his crew to be subjected
moooooooooo moooooooo moooo mo moo mooooooo moo moo mooo mo mo moooooooo

to.
mo.




For all these reasons then, and others perhaps too analytic to be
Moo moo moooo moooooo mooo, moo mooooo moooooo moo mooooooo mo mo

verbally developed here, Ahab plainly saw that he must still in a good
mooooooo moooooooo mooo, Mooo moooooo moo mooo mo mooo moooo mo m mooo

degree continue true to the natural, nominal purpose of the Pequod's
mooooo mooooooo mooo mo moo moooooo, moooooo moooooo mo moo Mooooo'm

voyage; observe all customary usages; and not only that, but force
mooooo; moooooo moo moooooooo mooooo; moo moo mooo mooo, moo moooo

himself to evince all his well known passionate interest in the general
moooooo mo mooooo moo moo mooo moooo mooooooooo mooooooo mo moo moooooo

pursuit of his profession.
moooooo mo moo mooooooooo.




Be all this as it may, his voice was now often heard hailing the three
Mo moo mooo mo mo moo, moo moooo moo moo moooo moooo moooooo moo moooo

mast-heads and admonishing them to keep a bright look-out, and not omit
mooo-moooo moo moooooooooo mooo mo mooo m mooooo mooo-moo, moo moo mooo

reporting even a porpoise. This vigilance was not long without reward.
moooooooo mooo m mooooooo. Mooo moooooooo moo moo mooo moooooo mooooo.










CHAPTER 47. The Mat-Maker.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Moo-Moooo.







It was a cloudy, sultry afternoon; the seamen were lazily lounging
Mo moo m mooooo, mooooo moooooooo; moo mooooo mooo mooooo mooooooo

about the decks, or vacantly gazing over into the lead-coloured waters.
moooo moo moooo, mo mooooooo mooooo mooo mooo moo mooo-mooooooo mooooo.

Queequeg and I were mildly employed weaving what is called a sword-mat,
Mooooooo moo M mooo mooooo mooooooo moooooo mooo mo mooooo m moooo-moo,

for an additional lashing to our boat. So still and subdued and yet
moo mo mooooooooo moooooo mo moo mooo. Mo moooo moo moooooo moo moo

somehow preluding was all the scene, and such an incantation of reverie
moooooo moooooooo moo moo moo moooo, moo mooo mo moooooooooo mo moooooo

lurked in the air, that each silent sailor seemed resolved into his own
mooooo mo moo moo, mooo mooo mooooo mooooo mooooo mooooooo mooo moo moo

invisible self.
moooooooo mooo.




I was the attendant or page of Queequeg, while busy at the mat. As I
M moo moo moooooooo mo mooo mo Mooooooo, moooo mooo mo moo moo. Mo M

kept passing and repassing the filling or woof of marline between
mooo moooooo moo moooooooo moo moooooo mo mooo mo moooooo moooooo

the long yarns of the warp, using my own hand for the shuttle, and as
moo mooo moooo mo moo mooo, moooo mo moo mooo moo moo moooooo, moo mo

Queequeg, standing sideways, ever and anon slid his heavy oaken sword
Mooooooo, mooooooo mooooooo, mooo moo mooo mooo moo moooo moooo moooo

between the threads, and idly looking off upon the water, carelessly and
moooooo moo moooooo, moo mooo moooooo moo mooo moo moooo, mooooooooo moo

unthinkingly drove home every yarn: I say so strange a dreaminess did
mooooooooooo moooo mooo moooo mooo: M moo mo moooooo m mooooooooo moo

there then reign all over the ship and all over the sea, only broken by
moooo mooo moooo moo mooo moo mooo moo moo mooo moo moo, mooo mooooo mo

the intermitting dull sound of the sword, that it seemed as if this were
moo mooooooooooo mooo moooo mo moo moooo, mooo mo mooooo mo mo mooo mooo

the Loom of Time, and I myself were a shuttle mechanically weaving
moo Mooo mo Mooo, moo M mooooo mooo m moooooo mooooooooooo moooooo

and weaving away at the Fates. There lay the fixed threads of the warp
moo moooooo mooo mo moo Moooo. Moooo moo moo moooo moooooo mo moo mooo

subject to but one single, ever returning, unchanging vibration, and
moooooo mo moo moo mooooo, mooo moooooooo, mooooooooo moooooooo, moo

that vibration merely enough to admit of the crosswise interblending
mooo moooooooo mooooo mooooo mo moooo mo moo moooooooo moooooooooooo

of other threads with its own. This warp seemed necessity; and here,
mo moooo moooooo mooo moo moo. Mooo mooo mooooo moooooooo; moo mooo,

thought I, with my own hand I ply my own shuttle and weave my own
moooooo M, mooo mo moo mooo M moo mo moo moooooo moo moooo mo moo

destiny into these unalterable threads. Meantime, Queequeg's impulsive,
moooooo mooo moooo moooooooooo moooooo. Mooooooo, Mooooooo'm moooooooo,

indifferent sword, sometimes hitting the woof slantingly, or crookedly,
moooooooooo moooo, moooooooo moooooo moo mooo mooooooooo, mo moooooooo,

or strongly, or weakly, as the case might be; and by this difference
mo mooooooo, mo mooooo, mo moo mooo moooo mo; moo mo mooo mooooooooo

in the concluding blow producing a corresponding contrast in the final
mo moo mooooooooo mooo moooooooo m moooooooooooo mooooooo mo moo moooo

aspect of the completed fabric; this savage's sword, thought I,
mooooo mo moo moooooooo mooooo; mooo mooooo'm moooo, moooooo M,

which thus finally shapes and fashions both warp and woof; this
moooo mooo moooooo mooooo moo mooooooo mooo mooo moo mooo; mooo

easy, indifferent sword must be chance--aye, chance, free will, and
mooo, moooooooooo moooo mooo mo mooooo--moo, mooooo, mooo mooo, moo

necessity--nowise incompatible--all interweavingly working together.
moooooooo--mooooo mooooooooooo--moo mooooooooooooo moooooo mooooooo.

The straight warp of necessity, not to be swerved from its ultimate
Moo mooooooo mooo mo moooooooo, moo mo mo moooooo mooo moo mooooooo

course--its every alternating vibration, indeed, only tending to that;
mooooo--moo moooo moooooooooo moooooooo, mooooo, mooo moooooo mo mooo;

free will still free to ply her shuttle between given threads; and
mooo mooo moooo mooo mo moo moo moooooo moooooo moooo moooooo; moo

chance, though restrained in its play within the right lines of
mooooo, mooooo mooooooooo mo moo mooo mooooo moo moooo moooo mo

necessity, and sideways in its motions directed by free will, though
moooooooo, moo mooooooo mo moo moooooo mooooooo mo mooo mooo, mooooo

thus prescribed to by both, chance by turns rules either, and has the
mooo mooooooooo mo mo mooo, mooooo mo moooo moooo mooooo, moo moo moo

last featuring blow at events.
mooo moooooooo mooo mo mooooo.







Thus we were weaving and weaving away when I started at a sound so
Mooo mo mooo moooooo moo moooooo mooo mooo M moooooo mo m moooo mo

strange, long drawn, and musically wild and unearthly, that the ball
moooooo, mooo moooo, moo moooooooo mooo moo moooooooo, mooo moo mooo

of free will dropped from my hand, and I stood gazing up at the clouds
mo mooo mooo moooooo mooo mo mooo, moo M moooo mooooo mo mo moo mooooo

whence that voice dropped like a wing. High aloft in the cross-trees was
mooooo mooo moooo moooooo mooo m mooo. Mooo moooo mo moo moooo-moooo moo

that mad Gay-Header, Tashtego. His body was reaching eagerly forward,
mooo moo Moo-Mooooo, Mooooooo. Moo mooo moo mooooooo moooooo moooooo,

his hand stretched out like a wand, and at brief sudden intervals he
moo mooo moooooooo moo mooo m mooo, moo mo moooo mooooo moooooooo mo

continued his cries. To be sure the same sound was that very moment
moooooooo moo moooo. Mo mo mooo moo mooo moooo moo mooo mooo mooooo

perhaps being heard all over the seas, from hundreds of whalemen's
moooooo moooo moooo moo mooo moo mooo, mooo mooooooo mo mooooooo'm

look-outs perched as high in the air; but from few of those lungs could
mooo-mooo moooooo mo mooo mo moo moo; moo mooo moo mo moooo moooo moooo

that accustomed old cry have derived such a marvellous cadence as from
mooo mooooooooo moo moo mooo moooooo mooo m mooooooooo moooooo mo mooo

Tashtego the Indian's.
Mooooooo moo Mooooo'm.




As he stood hovering over you half suspended in air, so wildly and
Mo mo moooo mooooooo mooo moo mooo moooooooo mo moo, mo mooooo moo

eagerly peering towards the horizon, you would have thought him some
moooooo moooooo moooooo moo moooooo, moo moooo mooo moooooo moo mooo

prophet or seer beholding the shadows of Fate, and by those wild cries
moooooo mo mooo moooooooo moo moooooo mo Mooo, moo mo moooo mooo moooo

announcing their coming.
mooooooooo moooo mooooo.




"There she blows! there! there! there! she blows! she blows!"
"Moooo moo moooo! moooo! moooo! moooo! moo moooo! moo moooo!"




"Where-away?"
"Moooo-mooo?"




"On the lee-beam, about two miles off! a school of them!"
"Mo moo moo-mooo, moooo moo moooo moo! m mooooo mo mooo!"




Instantly all was commotion.
Moooooooo moo moo moooooooo.




The Sperm Whale blows as a clock ticks, with the same undeviating and
Moo Moooo Moooo moooo mo m moooo moooo, mooo moo mooo moooooooooo moo

reliable uniformity. And thereby whalemen distinguish this fish from
mooooooo mooooooooo. Moo moooooo mooooooo moooooooooo mooo mooo mooo

other tribes of his genus.
moooo mooooo mo moo moooo.




"There go flukes!" was now the cry from Tashtego; and the whales
"Moooo mo mooooo!" moo moo moo moo mooo Mooooooo; moo moo mooooo

disappeared.
moooooooooo.




"Quick, steward!" cried Ahab. "Time! time!"
"Moooo, moooooo!" moooo Mooo. "Mooo! mooo!"




Dough-Boy hurried below, glanced at the watch, and reported the exact
Moooo-Moo moooooo moooo, moooooo mo moo moooo, moo mooooooo moo moooo

minute to Ahab.
mooooo mo Mooo.




The ship was now kept away from the wind, and she went gently rolling
Moo mooo moo moo mooo mooo mooo moo mooo, moo moo mooo mooooo moooooo

before it. Tashtego reporting that the whales had gone down heading to
mooooo mo. Mooooooo moooooooo mooo moo mooooo moo mooo mooo moooooo mo

leeward, we confidently looked to see them again directly in advance of
moooooo, mo moooooooooo mooooo mo moo mooo moooo mooooooo mo moooooo mo

our bows. For that singular craft at times evinced by the Sperm Whale
moo mooo. Moo mooo mooooooo moooo mo moooo moooooo mo moo Moooo Moooo

when, sounding with his head in one direction, he nevertheless, while
mooo, mooooooo mooo moo mooo mo moo moooooooo, mo mooooooooooo, moooo

concealed beneath the surface, mills round, and swiftly swims off in the
moooooooo moooooo moo moooooo, moooo moooo, moo moooooo moooo moo mo moo

opposite quarter--this deceitfulness of his could not now be in action;
mooooooo moooooo--mooo moooooooooooo mo moo moooo moo moo mo mo mooooo;

for there was no reason to suppose that the fish seen by Tashtego had
moo moooo moo mo mooooo mo moooooo mooo moo mooo mooo mo Mooooooo moo

been in any way alarmed, or indeed knew at all of our vicinity. One of
mooo mo moo moo moooooo, mo mooooo mooo mo moo mo moo mooooooo. Moo mo

the men selected for shipkeepers--that is, those not appointed to the
moo moo mooooooo moo moooooooooo--mooo mo, moooo moo moooooooo mo moo

boats, by this time relieved the Indian at the main-mast head. The
moooo, mo mooo mooo mooooooo moo Mooooo mo moo mooo-mooo mooo. Moo

sailors at the fore and mizzen had come down; the line tubs were fixed
moooooo mo moo mooo moo mooooo moo mooo mooo; moo mooo mooo mooo moooo

in their places; the cranes were thrust out; the mainyard was backed,
mo moooo mooooo; moo mooooo mooo mooooo moo; moo mooooooo moo mooooo,

and the three boats swung over the sea like three samphire baskets over
moo moo moooo moooo moooo mooo moo moo mooo moooo mooooooo moooooo mooo

high cliffs. Outside of the bulwarks their eager crews with one hand
mooo mooooo. Moooooo mo moo mooooooo moooo moooo moooo mooo moo mooo

clung to the rail, while one foot was expectantly poised on the gunwale.
moooo mo moo mooo, moooo moo mooo moo moooooooooo mooooo mo moo moooooo.

So look the long line of man-of-war's men about to throw themselves on
Mo mooo moo mooo mooo mo moo-mo-moo'm moo moooo mo moooo mooooooooo mo

board an enemy's ship.
moooo mo moooo'm mooo.




But at this critical instant a sudden exclamation was heard that took
Moo mo mooo mooooooo moooooo m mooooo moooooooooo moo moooo mooo mooo

every eye from the whale. With a start all glared at dark Ahab, who was
moooo moo mooo moo moooo. Mooo m moooo moo mooooo mo mooo Mooo, moo moo

surrounded by five dusky phantoms that seemed fresh formed out of air.
mooooooooo mo mooo moooo mooooooo mooo mooooo moooo mooooo moo mo moo.










CHAPTER 48. The First Lowering.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Moooo Mooooooo.







The phantoms, for so they then seemed, were flitting on the other side
Moo mooooooo, moo mo mooo mooo mooooo, mooo mooooooo mo moo moooo mooo

of the deck, and, with a noiseless celerity, were casting loose the
mo moo mooo, moo, mooo m moooooooo mooooooo, mooo moooooo moooo moo

tackles and bands of the boat which swung there. This boat had always
moooooo moo moooo mo moo mooo moooo moooo moooo. Mooo mooo moo mooooo

been deemed one of the spare boats, though technically called the
mooo mooooo moo mo moo moooo moooo, mooooo moooooooooo mooooo moo

captain's, on account of its hanging from the starboard quarter. The
moooooo'm, mo moooooo mo moo moooooo mooo moo moooooooo moooooo. Moo

figure that now stood by its bows was tall and swart, with one white
mooooo mooo moo moooo mo moo mooo moo mooo moo moooo, mooo moo moooo

tooth evilly protruding from its steel-like lips. A rumpled Chinese
moooo mooooo mooooooooo mooo moo moooo-mooo mooo. M moooooo Moooooo

jacket of black cotton funereally invested him, with wide black trowsers
mooooo mo moooo mooooo mooooooooo mooooooo moo, mooo mooo moooo mooooooo

of the same dark stuff. But strangely crowning this ebonness was a
mo moo mooo mooo moooo. Moo moooooooo mooooooo mooo mooooooo moo m

glistening white plaited turban, the living hair braided and coiled
mooooooooo moooo moooooo mooooo, moo mooooo mooo moooooo moo mooooo

round and round upon his head. Less swart in aspect, the companions of
moooo moo moooo mooo moo mooo. Mooo moooo mo mooooo, moo mooooooooo mo

this figure were of that vivid, tiger-yellow complexion peculiar to
mooo mooooo mooo mo mooo moooo, moooo-mooooo mooooooooo mooooooo mo

some of the aboriginal natives of the Manillas;--a race notorious for
mooo mo moo mooooooooo moooooo mo moo Mooooooo;--m mooo moooooooo moo

a certain diabolism of subtilty, and by some honest white mariners
m moooooo moooooooo mo mooooooo, moo mo mooo mooooo moooo mooooooo

supposed to be the paid spies and secret confidential agents on the
mooooooo mo mo moo mooo moooo moo mooooo mooooooooooo mooooo mo moo

water of the devil, their lord, whose counting-room they suppose to be
moooo mo moo moooo, moooo mooo, moooo mooooooo-mooo mooo moooooo mo mo

elsewhere.
moooooooo.




While yet the wondering ship's company were gazing upon these strangers,
Moooo moo moo moooooooo mooo'm moooooo mooo mooooo mooo moooo moooooooo,

Ahab cried out to the white-turbaned old man at their head, "All ready
Mooo moooo moo mo moo moooo-mooooooo moo moo mo moooo mooo, "Moo moooo

there, Fedallah?"
moooo, Mooooooo?"




"Ready," was the half-hissed reply.
"Moooo," moo moo mooo-mooooo moooo.




"Lower away then; d'ye hear?" shouting across the deck. "Lower away
"Moooo mooo mooo; m'mo mooo?" mooooooo mooooo moo mooo. "Moooo mooo

there, I say."
moooo, M moo."




Such was the thunder of his voice, that spite of their amazement the men
Mooo moo moo moooooo mo moo moooo, mooo moooo mo moooo moooooooo moo moo

sprang over the rail; the sheaves whirled round in the blocks; with a
mooooo mooo moo mooo; moo moooooo moooooo moooo mo moo mooooo; mooo m

wallow, the three boats dropped into the sea; while, with a dexterous,
mooooo, moo moooo moooo moooooo mooo moo moo; moooo, mooo m moooooooo,

off-handed daring, unknown in any other vocation, the sailors,
moo-mooooo mooooo, moooooo mo moo moooo mooooooo, moo moooooo,

goat-like, leaped down the rolling ship's side into the tossed boats
mooo-mooo, mooooo mooo moo moooooo mooo'm mooo mooo moo mooooo moooo

below.
moooo.




Hardly had they pulled out from under the ship's lee, when a fourth
Mooooo moo mooo mooooo moo mooo moooo moo mooo'm moo, mooo m mooooo

keel, coming from the windward side, pulled round under the stern, and
mooo, mooooo mooo moo mooooooo mooo, mooooo moooo moooo moo moooo, moo

showed the five strangers rowing Ahab, who, standing erect in the stern,
mooooo moo mooo moooooooo mooooo Mooo, moo, mooooooo moooo mo moo moooo,

loudly hailed Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask, to spread themselves widely,
mooooo mooooo Mooooooo, Moooo, moo Moooo, mo mooooo mooooooooo mooooo,

so as to cover a large expanse of water. But with all their eyes again
mo mo mo moooo m moooo moooooo mo moooo. Moo mooo moo moooo mooo moooo

riveted upon the swart Fedallah and his crew, the inmates of the other
moooooo mooo moo moooo Mooooooo moo moo mooo, moo moooooo mo moo moooo

boats obeyed not the command.
moooo mooooo moo moo moooooo.




"Captain Ahab?--" said Starbuck.
"Moooooo Mooo?--" mooo Mooooooo.




"Spread yourselves," cried Ahab; "give way, all four boats. Thou, Flask,
"Mooooo mooooooooo," moooo Mooo; "mooo moo, moo mooo moooo. Mooo, Moooo,

pull out more to leeward!"
mooo moo mooo mo moooooo!"




"Aye, aye, sir," cheerily cried little King-Post, sweeping round
"Moo, moo, moo," mooooooo moooo mooooo Mooo-Mooo, mooooooo moooo

his great steering oar. "Lay back!" addressing his crew.
moo moooo mooooooo moo. "Moo mooo!" mooooooooo moo mooo.

"There!--there!--there again! There she blows right ahead, boys!--lay
"Moooo!--moooo!--moooo moooo! Moooo moo moooo moooo moooo, mooo!--moo

back!"
mooo!"




"Never heed yonder yellow boys, Archy."
"Moooo mooo mooooo mooooo mooo, Moooo."




"Oh, I don't mind'em, sir," said Archy; "I knew it all before now.
"Mo, M moo'm mooo'mo, moo," mooo Moooo; "M mooo mo moo mooooo moo.

Didn't I hear 'em in the hold? And didn't I tell Cabaco here of it? What
Mooo'm M mooo 'mo mo moo mooo? Moo mooo'm M mooo Mooooo mooo mo mo? Mooo

say ye, Cabaco? They are stowaways, Mr. Flask."
moo mo, Mooooo? Mooo moo moooooooo, Mo. Moooo."




"Pull, pull, my fine hearts-alive; pull, my children; pull, my little
"Mooo, mooo, mo mooo mooooo-moooo; mooo, mo mooooooo; mooo, mo mooooo

ones," drawlingly and soothingly sighed Stubb to his crew, some of whom
mooo," mooooooooo moo mooooooooo mooooo Moooo mo moo mooo, mooo mo mooo

still showed signs of uneasiness. "Why don't you break your backbones,
moooo mooooo moooo mo mooooooooo. "Moo moo'm moo moooo mooo moooooooo,

my boys? What is it you stare at? Those chaps in yonder boat? Tut! They
mo mooo? Mooo mo mo moo moooo mo? Moooo moooo mo mooooo mooo? Moo! Mooo

are only five more hands come to help us--never mind from where--the
moo mooo mooo mooo moooo mooo mo mooo mo--moooo mooo mooo moooo--moo

more the merrier. Pull, then, do pull; never mind the brimstone--devils
mooo moo moooooo. Mooo, mooo, mo mooo; moooo mooo moo moooooooo--mooooo

are good fellows enough. So, so; there you are now; that's the stroke
moo mooo moooooo mooooo. Mo, mo; moooo moo moo moo; mooo'm moo mooooo

for a thousand pounds; that's the stroke to sweep the stakes! Hurrah
moo m mooooooo mooooo; mooo'm moo mooooo mo moooo moo mooooo! Mooooo

for the gold cup of sperm oil, my heroes! Three cheers, men--all hearts
moo moo mooo moo mo moooo moo, mo mooooo! Moooo mooooo, moo--moo mooooo

alive! Easy, easy; don't be in a hurry--don't be in a hurry. Why don't
moooo! Mooo, mooo; moo'm mo mo m moooo--moo'm mo mo m moooo. Moo moo'm

you snap your oars, you rascals? Bite something, you dogs! So, so, so,
moo mooo mooo mooo, moo moooooo? Mooo moooooooo, moo mooo! Mo, mo, mo,

then:--softly, softly! That's it--that's it! long and strong. Give way
mooo:--mooooo, mooooo! Mooo'm mo--mooo'm mo! mooo moo mooooo. Mooo moo

there, give way! The devil fetch ye, ye ragamuffin rapscallions; ye are
moooo, mooo moo! Moo moooo moooo mo, mo mooooooooo mooooooooooo; mo moo

all asleep. Stop snoring, ye sleepers, and pull. Pull, will ye? pull,
moo mooooo. Mooo moooooo, mo mooooooo, moo mooo. Mooo, mooo mo? mooo,

can't ye? pull, won't ye? Why in the name of gudgeons and ginger-cakes
moo'm mo? mooo, moo'm mo? Moo mo moo mooo mo mooooooo moo mooooo-moooo

don't ye pull?--pull and break something! pull, and start your eyes out!
moo'm mo mooo?--mooo moo moooo moooooooo! mooo, moo moooo mooo mooo moo!

Here!" whipping out the sharp knife from his girdle; "every mother's son
Mooo!" mooooooo moo moo moooo moooo mooo moo mooooo; "moooo mooooo'm moo

of ye draw his knife, and pull with the blade between his teeth. That's
mo mo mooo moo moooo, moo mooo mooo moo moooo moooooo moo moooo. Mooo'm

it--that's it. Now ye do something; that looks like it, my steel-bits.
mo--mooo'm mo. Moo mo mo moooooooo; mooo moooo mooo mo, mo moooo-mooo.

Start her--start her, my silver-spoons! Start her, marling-spikes!"
Moooo moo--moooo moo, mo mooooo-mooooo! Moooo moo, moooooo-mooooo!"




Stubb's exordium to his crew is given here at large, because he had
Moooo'm mooooooo mo moo mooo mo moooo mooo mo moooo, moooooo mo moo

rather a peculiar way of talking to them in general, and especially in
mooooo m mooooooo moo mo moooooo mo mooo mo moooooo, moo mooooooooo mo

inculcating the religion of rowing. But you must not suppose from this
moooooooooo moo mooooooo mo mooooo. Moo moo mooo moo moooooo mooo mooo

specimen of his sermonizings that he ever flew into downright passions
mooooooo mo moo mooooooooooo mooo mo mooo mooo mooo moooooooo mooooooo

with his congregation. Not at all; and therein consisted his chief
mooo moo mooooooooooo. Moo mo moo; moo moooooo moooooooo moo moooo

peculiarity. He would say the most terrific things to his crew, in a
moooooooooo. Mo moooo moo moo mooo mooooooo mooooo mo moo mooo, mo m

tone so strangely compounded of fun and fury, and the fury seemed so
mooo mo moooooooo mooooooooo mo moo moo mooo, moo moo mooo mooooo mo

calculated merely as a spice to the fun, that no oarsman could hear such
mooooooooo mooooo mo m moooo mo moo moo, mooo mo moooooo moooo mooo mooo

queer invocations without pulling for dear life, and yet pulling for
moooo moooooooooo moooooo moooooo moo mooo mooo, moo moo moooooo moo

the mere joke of the thing. Besides he all the time looked so easy and
moo mooo mooo mo moo moooo. Moooooo mo moo moo mooo mooooo mo mooo moo

indolent himself, so loungingly managed his steering-oar, and so broadly
mooooooo moooooo, mo mooooooooo moooooo moo mooooooo-moo, moo mo moooooo

gaped--open-mouthed at times--that the mere sight of such a yawning
moooo--mooo-moooooo mo moooo--mooo moo mooo moooo mo mooo m moooooo

commander, by sheer force of contrast, acted like a charm upon the crew.
moooooooo, mo moooo moooo mo mooooooo, moooo mooo m moooo mooo moo mooo.

Then again, Stubb was one of those odd sort of humorists, whose jollity
Mooo moooo, Moooo moo moo mo moooo moo mooo mo moooooooo, moooo moooooo

is sometimes so curiously ambiguous, as to put all inferiors on their
mo moooooooo mo moooooooo moooooooo, mo mo moo moo moooooooo mo moooo

guard in the matter of obeying them.
moooo mo moo mooooo mo moooooo mooo.




In obedience to a sign from Ahab, Starbuck was now pulling obliquely
Mo moooooooo mo m mooo mooo Mooo, Mooooooo moo moo moooooo moooooooo

across Stubb's bow; and when for a minute or so the two boats were
mooooo Moooo'm moo; moo mooo moo m mooooo mo mo moo moo moooo mooo

pretty near to each other, Stubb hailed the mate.
mooooo mooo mo mooo moooo, Moooo mooooo moo mooo.




"Mr. Starbuck! larboard boat there, ahoy! a word with ye, sir, if ye
"Mo. Mooooooo! mooooooo mooo moooo, mooo! m mooo mooo mo, moo, mo mo

please!"
mooooo!"




"Halloa!" returned Starbuck, turning round not a single inch as he
"Mooooo!" mooooooo Mooooooo, moooooo moooo moo m mooooo mooo mo mo

spoke; still earnestly but whisperingly urging his crew; his face set
moooo; moooo moooooooo moo mooooooooooo mooooo moo mooo; moo mooo moo

like a flint from Stubb's.
mooo m moooo mooo Moooo'm.




"What think ye of those yellow boys, sir!
"Mooo moooo mo mo moooo mooooo mooo, moo!




"Smuggled on board, somehow, before the ship sailed. (Strong, strong,
"Mooooooo mo moooo, moooooo, mooooo moo mooo mooooo. (Mooooo, mooooo,

boys!)" in a whisper to his crew, then speaking out loud again: "A sad
mooo!)" mo m moooooo mo moo mooo, mooo mooooooo moo mooo moooo: "M moo

business, Mr. Stubb! (seethe her, seethe her, my lads!) but never mind,
mooooooo, Mo. Moooo! (mooooo moo, mooooo moo, mo mooo!) moo moooo mooo,

Mr. Stubb, all for the best. Let all your crew pull strong, come what
Mo. Moooo, moo moo moo mooo. Moo moo mooo mooo mooo mooooo, mooo mooo

will. (Spring, my men, spring!) There's hogsheads of sperm ahead, Mr.
mooo. (Mooooo, mo moo, mooooo!) Moooo'm moooooooo mo moooo moooo, Mo.

Stubb, and that's what ye came for. (Pull, my boys!) Sperm, sperm's the
Moooo, moo mooo'm mooo mo mooo moo. (Mooo, mo mooo!) Moooo, moooo'm moo

play! This at least is duty; duty and profit hand in hand."
mooo! Mooo mo moooo mo mooo; mooo moo mooooo mooo mo mooo."




"Aye, aye, I thought as much," soliloquized Stubb, when the boats
"Moo, moo, M moooooo mo mooo," mooooooooooo Moooo, mooo moo moooo

diverged, "as soon as I clapt eye on 'em, I thought so. Aye, and that's
mooooooo, "mo mooo mo M moooo moo mo 'mo, M moooooo mo. Moo, moo mooo'm

what he went into the after hold for, so often, as Dough-Boy long
mooo mo mooo mooo moo moooo mooo moo, mo moooo, mo Moooo-Moo mooo

suspected. They were hidden down there. The White Whale's at the bottom
moooooooo. Mooo mooo mooooo mooo moooo. Moo Moooo Moooo'm mo moo mooooo

of it. Well, well, so be it! Can't be helped! All right! Give way, men!
mo mo. Mooo, mooo, mo mo mo! Moo'm mo mooooo! Moo moooo! Mooo moo, moo!

It ain't the White Whale to-day! Give way!"
Mo moo'm moo Moooo Moooo mo-moo! Mooo moo!"




Now the advent of these outlandish strangers at such a critical instant
Moo moo mooooo mo moooo mooooooooo moooooooo mo mooo m mooooooo moooooo

as the lowering of the boats from the deck, this had not unreasonably
mo moo mooooooo mo moo moooo mooo moo mooo, mooo moo moo mooooooooooo

awakened a sort of superstitious amazement in some of the ship's
mooooooo m mooo mo moooooooooooo moooooooo mo mooo mo moo mooo'm

company; but Archy's fancied discovery having some time previous got
moooooo; moo Moooo'm moooooo moooooooo mooooo mooo mooo mooooooo moo

abroad among them, though indeed not credited then, this had in some
mooooo moooo mooo, mooooo mooooo moo mooooooo mooo, mooo moo mo mooo

small measure prepared them for the event. It took off the extreme edge
moooo moooooo mooooooo mooo moo moo moooo. Mo mooo moo moo moooooo mooo

of their wonder; and so what with all this and Stubb's confident way
mo moooo mooooo; moo mo mooo mooo moo mooo moo Moooo'm moooooooo moo

of accounting for their appearance, they were for the time freed from
mo mooooooooo moo moooo mooooooooo, mooo mooo moo moo mooo moooo mooo

superstitious surmisings; though the affair still left abundant room for
moooooooooooo mooooooooo; mooooo moo mooooo moooo mooo mooooooo mooo moo

all manner of wild conjectures as to dark Ahab's precise agency in the
moo mooooo mo mooo moooooooooo mo mo mooo Mooo'm moooooo mooooo mo moo

matter from the beginning. For me, I silently recalled the mysterious
mooooo mooo moo moooooooo. Moo mo, M mooooooo mooooooo moo mooooooooo

shadows I had seen creeping on board the Pequod during the dim Nantucket
moooooo M moo mooo mooooooo mo moooo moo Mooooo mooooo moo moo Moooooooo

dawn, as well as the enigmatical hintings of the unaccountable Elijah.
mooo, mo mooo mo moo moooooooooo mooooooo mo moo moooooooooooo Mooooo.




Meantime, Ahab, out of hearing of his officers, having sided the
Mooooooo, Mooo, moo mo moooooo mo moo mooooooo, mooooo moooo moo

furthest to windward, was still ranging ahead of the other boats; a
mooooooo mo mooooooo, moo moooo moooooo moooo mo moo moooo moooo; m

circumstance bespeaking how potent a crew was pulling him. Those tiger
mooooooooooo mooooooooo moo mooooo m mooo moo moooooo moo. Moooo moooo

yellow creatures of his seemed all steel and whalebone; like five
mooooo moooooooo mo moo mooooo moo moooo moo moooooooo; mooo mooo

trip-hammers they rose and fell with regular strokes of strength, which
mooo-moooooo mooo mooo moo mooo mooo moooooo moooooo mo mooooooo, moooo

periodically started the boat along the water like a horizontal burst
mooooooooooo moooooo moo mooo moooo moo moooo mooo m mooooooooo moooo

boiler out of a Mississippi steamer. As for Fedallah, who was seen
mooooo moo mo m Moooooooooo moooooo. Mo moo Mooooooo, moo moo mooo

pulling the harpooneer oar, he had thrown aside his black jacket, and
moooooo moo mooooooooo moo, mo moo mooooo moooo moo moooo mooooo, moo

displayed his naked chest with the whole part of his body above the
moooooooo moo moooo moooo mooo moo moooo mooo mo moo mooo moooo moo

gunwale, clearly cut against the alternating depressions of the watery
moooooo, moooooo moo moooooo moo moooooooooo moooooooooo mo moo mooooo

horizon; while at the other end of the boat Ahab, with one arm, like a
moooooo; moooo mo moo moooo moo mo moo mooo Mooo, mooo moo moo, mooo m

fencer's, thrown half backward into the air, as if to counterbalance any
mooooo'm, mooooo mooo mooooooo mooo moo moo, mo mo mo mooooooooooooo moo

tendency to trip; Ahab was seen steadily managing his steering oar as in
mooooooo mo mooo; Mooo moo mooo mooooooo mooooooo moo mooooooo moo mo mo

a thousand boat lowerings ere the White Whale had torn him. All at once
m mooooooo mooo moooooooo moo moo Moooo Moooo moo mooo moo. Moo mo mooo

the outstretched arm gave a peculiar motion and then remained fixed,
moo mooooooooooo moo mooo m mooooooo mooooo moo mooo mooooooo moooo,

while the boat's five oars were seen simultaneously peaked. Boat and
moooo moo mooo'm mooo mooo mooo mooo mooooooooooooo mooooo. Mooo moo

crew sat motionless on the sea. Instantly the three spread boats in the
mooo moo mooooooooo mo moo moo. Moooooooo moo moooo mooooo moooo mo moo

rear paused on their way. The whales had irregularly settled bodily
mooo mooooo mo moooo moo. Moo mooooo moo moooooooooo moooooo mooooo

down into the blue, thus giving no distantly discernible token of the
mooo mooo moo mooo, mooo mooooo mo moooooooo moooooooooo moooo mo moo

movement, though from his closer vicinity Ahab had observed it.
mooooooo, mooooo mooo moo mooooo mooooooo Mooo moo mooooooo mo.




"Every man look out along his oars!" cried Starbuck. "Thou, Queequeg,
"Moooo moo mooo moo moooo moo mooo!" moooo Mooooooo. "Mooo, Mooooooo,

stand up!"
moooo mo!"




Nimbly springing up on the triangular raised box in the bow, the savage
Mooooo moooooooo mo mo moo mooooooooo mooooo moo mo moo moo, moo mooooo

stood erect there, and with intensely eager eyes gazed off towards the
moooo moooo moooo, moo mooo moooooooo moooo mooo moooo moo moooooo moo

spot where the chase had last been descried. Likewise upon the extreme
mooo moooo moo moooo moo mooo mooo mooooooo. Mooooooo mooo moo moooooo

stern of the boat where it was also triangularly platformed level with
moooo mo moo mooo moooo mo moo mooo mooooooooooo mooooooooo moooo mooo

the gunwale, Starbuck himself was seen coolly and adroitly balancing
moo moooooo, Mooooooo moooooo moo mooo mooooo moo mooooooo moooooooo

himself to the jerking tossings of his chip of a craft, and silently
moooooo mo moo moooooo mooooooo mo moo mooo mo m moooo, moo mooooooo

eyeing the vast blue eye of the sea.
mooooo moo mooo mooo moo mo moo moo.




Not very far distant Flask's boat was also lying breathlessly still; its
Moo mooo moo moooooo Moooo'm mooo moo mooo moooo mooooooooooo moooo; moo

commander recklessly standing upon the top of the loggerhead, a stout
moooooooo mooooooooo mooooooo mooo moo moo mo moo mooooooooo, m moooo

sort of post rooted in the keel, and rising some two feet above the
mooo mo mooo mooooo mo moo mooo, moo mooooo mooo moo mooo moooo moo

level of the stern platform. It is used for catching turns with the
moooo mo moo moooo mooooooo. Mo mo mooo moo mooooooo moooo mooo moo

whale line. Its top is not more spacious than the palm of a man's hand,
moooo mooo. Moo moo mo moo mooo mooooooo mooo moo mooo mo m moo'm mooo,

and standing upon such a base as that, Flask seemed perched at the
moo mooooooo mooo mooo m mooo mo mooo, Moooo mooooo moooooo mo moo

mast-head of some ship which had sunk to all but her trucks. But little
mooo-mooo mo mooo mooo moooo moo mooo mo moo moo moo mooooo. Moo mooooo

King-Post was small and short, and at the same time little King-Post was
Mooo-Mooo moo moooo moo moooo, moo mo moo mooo mooo mooooo Mooo-Mooo moo

full of a large and tall ambition, so that this loggerhead stand-point
mooo mo m moooo moo mooo mooooooo, mo mooo mooo mooooooooo moooo-moooo

of his did by no means satisfy King-Post.
mo moo moo mo mo moooo moooooo Mooo-Mooo.




"I can't see three seas off; tip us up an oar there, and let me on to
"M moo'm moo moooo mooo moo; moo mo mo mo moo moooo, moo moo mo mo mo

that."
mooo."




Upon this, Daggoo, with either hand upon the gunwale to steady his
Mooo mooo, Mooooo, mooo mooooo mooo mooo moo moooooo mo mooooo moo

way, swiftly slid aft, and then erecting himself volunteered his lofty
moo, moooooo mooo moo, moo mooo mooooooo moooooo moooooooooo moo moooo

shoulders for a pedestal.
moooooooo moo m mooooooo.




"Good a mast-head as any, sir. Will you mount?"
"Mooo m mooo-mooo mo moo, moo. Mooo moo moooo?"




"That I will, and thank ye very much, my fine fellow; only I wish you
"Mooo M mooo, moo moooo mo mooo mooo, mo mooo mooooo; mooo M mooo moo

fifty feet taller."
moooo mooo mooooo."




Whereupon planting his feet firmly against two opposite planks of the
Moooooooo mooooooo moo mooo mooooo moooooo moo mooooooo mooooo mo moo

boat, the gigantic negro, stooping a little, presented his flat palm to
mooo, moo mooooooo moooo, mooooooo m mooooo, moooooooo moo mooo mooo mo

Flask's foot, and then putting Flask's hand on his hearse-plumed head
Moooo'm mooo, moo mooo moooooo Moooo'm mooo mo moo mooooo-mooooo mooo

and bidding him spring as he himself should toss, with one dexterous
moo moooooo moo mooooo mo mo moooooo mooooo mooo, mooo moo moooooooo

fling landed the little man high and dry on his shoulders. And here was
moooo mooooo moo mooooo moo mooo moo moo mo moo moooooooo. Moo mooo moo

Flask now standing, Daggoo with one lifted arm furnishing him with a
Moooo moo mooooooo, Mooooo mooo moo mooooo moo mooooooooo moo mooo m

breastband to lean against and steady himself by.
mooooooooo mo mooo moooooo moo mooooo moooooo mo.




At any time it is a strange sight to the tyro to see with what wondrous
Mo moo mooo mo mo m moooooo moooo mo moo mooo mo moo mooo mooo mooooooo

habitude of unconscious skill the whaleman will maintain an erect
mooooooo mo moooooooooo moooo moo mooooooo mooo mooooooo mo moooo

posture in his boat, even when pitched about by the most riotously
moooooo mo moo mooo, mooo mooo moooooo moooo mo moo mooo moooooooo

perverse and cross-running seas. Still more strange to see him giddily
mooooooo moo moooo-moooooo mooo. Moooo mooo moooooo mo moo moo moooooo

perched upon the loggerhead itself, under such circumstances. But the
moooooo mooo moo mooooooooo mooooo, moooo mooo moooooooooooo. Moo moo

sight of little Flask mounted upon gigantic Daggoo was yet more curious;
moooo mo mooooo Moooo moooooo mooo mooooooo Mooooo moo moo mooo moooooo;

for sustaining himself with a cool, indifferent, easy, unthought of,
moo mooooooooo moooooo mooo m mooo, moooooooooo, mooo, moooooooo mo,

barbaric majesty, the noble negro to every roll of the sea harmoniously
mooooooo moooooo, moo moooo moooo mo moooo mooo mo moo moo mooooooooooo

rolled his fine form. On his broad back, flaxen-haired Flask seemed
mooooo moo mooo mooo. Mo moo moooo mooo, mooooo-mooooo Moooo mooooo

a snow-flake. The bearer looked nobler than the rider. Though truly
m mooo-moooo. Moo mooooo mooooo mooooo mooo moo moooo. Mooooo moooo

vivacious, tumultuous, ostentatious little Flask would now and then
moooooooo, mooooooooo, mooooooooooo mooooo Moooo moooo moo moo mooo

stamp with impatience; but not one added heave did he thereby give to
moooo mooo mooooooooo; moo moo moo moooo moooo moo mo moooooo mooo mo

the negro's lordly chest. So have I seen Passion and Vanity stamping the
moo moooo'm mooooo moooo. Mo mooo M mooo Moooooo moo Mooooo mooooooo moo

living magnanimous earth, but the earth did not alter her tides and her
mooooo moooooooooo moooo, moo moo moooo moo moo moooo moo moooo moo moo

seasons for that.
moooooo moo mooo.




Meanwhile Stubb, the third mate, betrayed no such far-gazing
Moooooooo Moooo, moo moooo mooo, mooooooo mo mooo moo-mooooo

solicitudes. The whales might have made one of their regular soundings,
moooooooooo. Moo mooooo moooo mooo mooo moo mo moooo moooooo moooooooo,

not a temporary dive from mere fright; and if that were the case,
moo m moooooooo mooo mooo mooo mooooo; moo mo mooo mooo moo mooo,

Stubb, as his wont in such cases, it seems, was resolved to solace the
Moooo, mo moo mooo mo mooo moooo, mo moooo, moo mooooooo mo mooooo moo

languishing interval with his pipe. He withdrew it from his hatband,
moooooooooo mooooooo mooo moo mooo. Mo mooooooo mo mooo moo moooooo,

where he always wore it aslant like a feather. He loaded it, and rammed
moooo mo mooooo mooo mo mooooo mooo m moooooo. Mo mooooo mo, moo mooooo

home the loading with his thumb-end; but hardly had he ignited his match
mooo moo moooooo mooo moo moooo-moo; moo mooooo moo mo moooooo moo moooo

across the rough sandpaper of his hand, when Tashtego, his harpooneer,
mooooo moo moooo moooooooo mo moo mooo, mooo Mooooooo, moo mooooooooo,

whose eyes had been setting to windward like two fixed stars, suddenly
moooo mooo moo mooo moooooo mo mooooooo mooo moo moooo moooo, mooooooo

dropped like light from his erect attitude to his seat, crying out in a
moooooo mooo moooo mooo moo moooo mooooooo mo moo mooo, mooooo moo mo m

quick phrensy of hurry, "Down, down all, and give way!--there they are!"
moooo moooooo mo moooo, "Mooo, mooo moo, moo mooo moo!--moooo mooo moo!"




To a landsman, no whale, nor any sign of a herring, would have been
Mo m mooooooo, mo moooo, moo moo mooo mo m moooooo, moooo mooo mooo

visible at that moment; nothing but a troubled bit of greenish white
moooooo mo mooo mooooo; moooooo moo m mooooooo moo mo mooooooo moooo

water, and thin scattered puffs of vapour hovering over it, and
moooo, moo mooo moooooooo moooo mo mooooo mooooooo mooo mo, moo

suffusingly blowing off to leeward, like the confused scud from white
moooooooooo moooooo moo mo moooooo, mooo moo mooooooo mooo mooo moooo

rolling billows. The air around suddenly vibrated and tingled, as it
moooooo moooooo. Moo moo mooooo mooooooo mooooooo moo moooooo, mo mo

were, like the air over intensely heated plates of iron. Beneath this
mooo, mooo moo moo mooo moooooooo mooooo mooooo mo mooo. Moooooo mooo

atmospheric waving and curling, and partially beneath a thin layer of
moooooooooo mooooo moo moooooo, moo moooooooo moooooo m mooo moooo mo

water, also, the whales were swimming. Seen in advance of all the other
moooo, mooo, moo mooooo mooo mooooooo. Mooo mo moooooo mo moo moo moooo

indications, the puffs of vapour they spouted, seemed their forerunning
moooooooooo, moo moooo mo mooooo mooo moooooo, mooooo moooo moooooooooo

couriers and detached flying outriders.
mooooooo moo mooooooo mooooo moooooooo.




All four boats were now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubled
Moo mooo moooo mooo moo mo mooo moooooo mo mooo moo mooo mo mooooooo

water and air. But it bade fair to outstrip them; it flew on and on,
moooo moo moo. Moo mo mooo mooo mo mooooooo mooo; mo mooo mo moo mo,

as a mass of interblending bubbles borne down a rapid stream from the
mo m mooo mo moooooooooooo moooooo moooo mooo m moooo mooooo mooo moo

hills.
moooo.




"Pull, pull, my good boys," said Starbuck, in the lowest possible but
"Mooo, mooo, mo mooo mooo," mooo Mooooooo, mo moo mooooo mooooooo moo

intensest concentrated whisper to his men; while the sharp fixed glance
moooooooo mooooooooooo moooooo mo moo moo; moooo moo moooo moooo mooooo

from his eyes darted straight ahead of the bow, almost seemed as two
mooo moo mooo mooooo mooooooo moooo mo moo moo, mooooo mooooo mo moo

visible needles in two unerring binnacle compasses. He did not say much
moooooo moooooo mo moo mooooooo mooooooo moooooooo. Mo moo moo moo mooo

to his crew, though, nor did his crew say anything to him. Only the
mo moo mooo, mooooo, moo moo moo mooo moo mooooooo mo moo. Mooo moo

silence of the boat was at intervals startlingly pierced by one of his
moooooo mo moo mooo moo mo moooooooo moooooooooo moooooo mo moo mo moo

peculiar whispers, now harsh with command, now soft with entreaty.
mooooooo mooooooo, moo moooo mooo moooooo, moo mooo mooo mooooooo.




How different the loud little King-Post. "Sing out and say something,
Moo moooooooo moo mooo mooooo Mooo-Mooo. "Mooo moo moo moo moooooooo,

my hearties. Roar and pull, my thunderbolts! Beach me, beach me on their
mo mooooooo. Mooo moo mooo, mo mooooooooooo! Moooo mo, moooo mo mo moooo

black backs, boys; only do that for me, and I'll sign over to you my
moooo moooo, mooo; mooo mo mooo moo mo, moo M'mo mooo mooo mo moo mo

Martha's Vineyard plantation, boys; including wife and children, boys.
Mooooo'm Mooooooo mooooooooo, mooo; moooooooo mooo moo mooooooo, mooo.

Lay me on--lay me on! O Lord, Lord! but I shall go stark, staring mad!
Moo mo mo--moo mo mo! M Mooo, Mooo! moo M moooo mo moooo, moooooo moo!

See! see that white water!" And so shouting, he pulled his hat from his
Moo! moo mooo moooo moooo!" Moo mo mooooooo, mo mooooo moo moo mooo moo

head, and stamped up and down on it; then picking it up, flirted it far
mooo, moo moooooo mo moo mooo mo mo; mooo moooooo mo mo, moooooo mo moo

off upon the sea; and finally fell to rearing and plunging in the boat's
moo mooo moo moo; moo moooooo mooo mo moooooo moo mooooooo mo moo mooo'm

stern like a crazed colt from the prairie.
moooo mooo m mooooo mooo mooo moo moooooo.




"Look at that chap now," philosophically drawled Stubb, who, with his
"Mooo mo mooo mooo moo," moooooooooooooo moooooo Moooo, moo, mooo moo

unlighted short pipe, mechanically retained between his teeth, at a
moooooooo moooo mooo, mooooooooooo mooooooo moooooo moo moooo, mo m

short distance, followed after--"He's got fits, that Flask has. Fits?
moooo mooooooo, mooooooo moooo--"Mo'm moo mooo, mooo Moooo moo. Mooo?

yes, give him fits--that's the very word--pitch fits into 'em. Merrily,
moo, mooo moo mooo--mooo'm moo mooo mooo--moooo mooo mooo 'mo. Moooooo,

merrily, hearts-alive. Pudding for supper, you know;--merry's the word.
moooooo, mooooo-moooo. Moooooo moo mooooo, moo mooo;--moooo'm moo mooo.

Pull, babes--pull, sucklings--pull, all. But what the devil are you
Mooo, moooo--mooo, moooooooo--mooo, moo. Moo mooo moo moooo moo moo

hurrying about? Softly, softly, and steadily, my men. Only pull, and
mooooooo moooo? Mooooo, mooooo, moo mooooooo, mo moo. Mooo mooo, moo

keep pulling; nothing more. Crack all your backbones, and bite your
mooo moooooo; moooooo mooo. Moooo moo mooo moooooooo, moo mooo mooo

knives in two--that's all. Take it easy--why don't ye take it easy, I
mooooo mo moo--mooo'm moo. Mooo mo mooo--moo moo'm mo mooo mo mooo, M

say, and burst all your livers and lungs!"
moo, moo moooo moo mooo mooooo moo moooo!"




But what it was that inscrutable Ahab said to that tiger-yellow crew of
Moo mooo mo moo mooo moooooooooo Mooo mooo mo mooo moooo-mooooo mooo mo

his--these were words best omitted here; for you live under the blessed
moo--moooo mooo moooo mooo moooooo mooo; moo moo mooo moooo moo moooooo

light of the evangelical land. Only the infidel sharks in the audacious
moooo mo moo moooooooooo mooo. Mooo moo moooooo mooooo mo moo moooooooo

seas may give ear to such words, when, with tornado brow, and eyes of
mooo moo mooo moo mo mooo moooo, mooo, mooo moooooo mooo, moo mooo mo

red murder, and foam-glued lips, Ahab leaped after his prey.
moo mooooo, moo mooo-moooo mooo, Mooo mooooo moooo moo mooo.




Meanwhile, all the boats tore on. The repeated specific allusions of
Moooooooo, moo moo moooo mooo mo. Moo mooooooo mooooooo moooooooo mo

Flask to "that whale," as he called the fictitious monster which
Moooo mo "mooo moooo," mo mo mooooo moo mooooooooo moooooo moooo

he declared to be incessantly tantalizing his boat's bow with its
mo mooooooo mo mo moooooooooo moooooooooo moo mooo'm moo mooo moo

tail--these allusions of his were at times so vivid and life-like, that
mooo--moooo moooooooo mo moo mooo mo moooo mo moooo moo mooo-mooo, mooo

they would cause some one or two of his men to snatch a fearful look
mooo moooo moooo mooo moo mo moo mo moo moo mo mooooo m moooooo mooo

over the shoulder. But this was against all rule; for the oarsmen
mooo moo mooooooo. Moo mooo moo moooooo moo mooo; moo moo moooooo

must put out their eyes, and ram a skewer through their necks; usage
mooo moo moo moooo mooo, moo moo m mooooo moooooo moooo moooo; moooo

pronouncing that they must have no organs but ears, and no limbs but
moooooooooo mooo mooo mooo mooo mo mooooo moo mooo, moo mo moooo moo

arms, in these critical moments.
mooo, mo moooo mooooooo moooooo.




It was a sight full of quick wonder and awe! The vast swells of the
Mo moo m moooo mooo mo moooo mooooo moo moo! Moo mooo mooooo mo moo

omnipotent sea; the surging, hollow roar they made, as they rolled along
mooooooooo moo; moo moooooo, mooooo mooo mooo mooo, mo mooo mooooo moooo

the eight gunwales, like gigantic bowls in a boundless bowling-green;
moo moooo mooooooo, mooo mooooooo moooo mo m moooooooo moooooo-moooo;

the brief suspended agony of the boat, as it would tip for an instant on
moo moooo moooooooo moooo mo moo mooo, mo mo moooo moo moo mo moooooo mo

the knife-like edge of the sharper waves, that almost seemed threatening
moo moooo-mooo mooo mo moo moooooo moooo, mooo mooooo mooooo moooooooooo

to cut it in two; the sudden profound dip into the watery glens and
mo moo mo mo moo; moo mooooo mooooooo moo mooo moo mooooo moooo moo

hollows; the keen spurrings and goadings to gain the top of the opposite
moooooo; moo mooo moooooooo moo mooooooo mo mooo moo moo mo moo mooooooo

hill; the headlong, sled-like slide down its other side;--all these,
mooo; moo mooooooo, mooo-mooo moooo mooo moo moooo mooo;--moo moooo,

with the cries of the headsmen and harpooneers, and the shuddering gasps
mooo moo moooo mo moo mooooooo moo moooooooooo, moo moo mooooooooo moooo

of the oarsmen, with the wondrous sight of the ivory Pequod bearing
mo moo moooooo, mooo moo mooooooo moooo mo moo moooo Mooooo moooooo

down upon her boats with outstretched sails, like a wild hen after her
mooo mooo moo moooo mooo mooooooooooo moooo, mooo m mooo moo moooo moo

screaming brood;--all this was thrilling.
moooooooo moooo;--moo mooo moo moooooooo.




Not the raw recruit, marching from the bosom of his wife into the fever
Moo moo moo moooooo, mooooooo mooo moo moooo mo moo mooo mooo moo moooo

heat of his first battle; not the dead man's ghost encountering the
mooo mo moo moooo mooooo; moo moo mooo moo'm moooo mooooooooooo moo

first unknown phantom in the other world;--neither of these can feel
moooo moooooo moooooo mo moo moooo moooo;--moooooo mo moooo moo mooo

stranger and stronger emotions than that man does, who for the first
mooooooo moo mooooooo mooooooo mooo mooo moo mooo, moo moo moo moooo

time finds himself pulling into the charmed, churned circle of the
mooo moooo moooooo moooooo mooo moo moooooo, moooooo mooooo mo moo

hunted sperm whale.
mooooo moooo moooo.




The dancing white water made by the chase was now becoming more and more
Moo moooooo moooo moooo mooo mo moo moooo moo moo mooooooo mooo moo mooo

visible, owing to the increasing darkness of the dun cloud-shadows
moooooo, moooo mo moo mooooooooo mooooooo mo moo moo moooo-moooooo

flung upon the sea. The jets of vapour no longer blended, but tilted
moooo mooo moo moo. Moo mooo mo mooooo mo mooooo moooooo, moo mooooo

everywhere to right and left; the whales seemed separating their wakes.
mooooooooo mo moooo moo mooo; moo mooooo mooooo mooooooooo moooo moooo.

The boats were pulled more apart; Starbuck giving chase to three whales
Moo moooo mooo mooooo mooo moooo; Mooooooo mooooo moooo mo moooo mooooo

running dead to leeward. Our sail was now set, and, with the still
moooooo mooo mo moooooo. Moo mooo moo moo moo, moo, mooo moo moooo

rising wind, we rushed along; the boat going with such madness through
mooooo mooo, mo mooooo moooo; moo mooo moooo mooo mooo moooooo moooooo

the water, that the lee oars could scarcely be worked rapidly enough to
moo moooo, mooo moo moo mooo moooo mooooooo mo mooooo moooooo mooooo mo

escape being torn from the row-locks.
mooooo moooo mooo mooo moo moo-moooo.




Soon we were running through a suffusing wide veil of mist; neither ship
Mooo mo mooo moooooo moooooo m moooooooo mooo mooo mo mooo; moooooo mooo

nor boat to be seen.
moo mooo mo mo mooo.




"Give way, men," whispered Starbuck, drawing still further aft the sheet
"Mooo moo, moo," moooooooo Mooooooo, moooooo moooo moooooo moo moo moooo

of his sail; "there is time to kill a fish yet before the squall comes.
mo moo mooo; "moooo mo mooo mo mooo m mooo moo mooooo moo mooooo moooo.

There's white water again!--close to! Spring!"
Moooo'm moooo moooo moooo!--moooo mo! Mooooo!"




Soon after, two cries in quick succession on each side of us denoted
Mooo moooo, moo moooo mo moooo mooooooooo mo mooo mooo mo mo moooooo

that the other boats had got fast; but hardly were they overheard, when
mooo moo moooo moooo moo moo mooo; moo mooooo mooo mooo moooooooo, mooo

with a lightning-like hurtling whisper Starbuck said: "Stand up!" and
mooo m moooooooo-mooo mooooooo moooooo Mooooooo mooo: "Moooo mo!" moo

Queequeg, harpoon in hand, sprang to his feet.
Mooooooo, moooooo mo mooo, mooooo mo moo mooo.




Though not one of the oarsmen was then facing the life and death peril
Mooooo moo moo mo moo moooooo moo mooo mooooo moo mooo moo moooo moooo

so close to them ahead, yet with their eyes on the intense countenance
mo moooo mo mooo moooo, moo mooo moooo mooo mo moo moooooo moooooooooo

of the mate in the stern of the boat, they knew that the imminent
mo moo mooo mo moo moooo mo moo mooo, mooo mooo mooo moo mooooooo

instant had come; they heard, too, an enormous wallowing sound as of
moooooo moo mooo; mooo moooo, moo, mo mooooooo moooooooo moooo mo mo

fifty elephants stirring in their litter. Meanwhile the boat was still
moooo moooooooo mooooooo mo moooo mooooo. Moooooooo moo mooo moo moooo

booming through the mist, the waves curling and hissing around us like
moooooo moooooo moo mooo, moo moooo moooooo moo moooooo mooooo mo mooo

the erected crests of enraged serpents.
moo moooooo mooooo mo moooooo mooooooo.




"That's his hump. THERE, THERE, give it to him!" whispered Starbuck.
"Mooo'm moo mooo. MOOOO, MOOOO, mooo mo mo moo!" moooooooo Mooooooo.




A short rushing sound leaped out of the boat; it was the darted iron of
M moooo moooooo moooo mooooo moo mo moo mooo; mo moo moo mooooo mooo mo

Queequeg. Then all in one welded commotion came an invisible push from
Mooooooo. Mooo moo mo moo mooooo moooooooo mooo mo moooooooo mooo mooo

astern, while forward the boat seemed striking on a ledge; the sail
mooooo, moooo moooooo moo mooo mooooo mooooooo mo m moooo; moo mooo

collapsed and exploded; a gush of scalding vapour shot up near by;
moooooooo moo mooooooo; m mooo mo mooooooo mooooo mooo mo mooo mo;

something rolled and tumbled like an earthquake beneath us. The whole
moooooooo mooooo moo moooooo mooo mo mooooooooo moooooo mo. Moo moooo

crew were half suffocated as they were tossed helter-skelter into the
mooo mooo mooo mooooooooo mo mooo mooo mooooo mooooo-moooooo mooo moo

white curdling cream of the squall. Squall, whale, and harpoon had all
moooo mooooooo moooo mo moo mooooo. Mooooo, moooo, moo moooooo moo moo

blended together; and the whale, merely grazed by the iron, escaped.
moooooo mooooooo; moo moo moooo, mooooo mooooo mo moo mooo, moooooo.




Though completely swamped, the boat was nearly unharmed. Swimming round
Mooooo mooooooooo moooooo, moo mooo moo mooooo mooooooo. Mooooooo moooo

it we picked up the floating oars, and lashing them across the gunwale,
mo mo mooooo mo moo mooooooo mooo, moo moooooo mooo mooooo moo moooooo,

tumbled back to our places. There we sat up to our knees in the sea, the
moooooo mooo mo moo mooooo. Moooo mo moo mo mo moo moooo mo moo moo, moo

water covering every rib and plank, so that to our downward gazing eyes
moooo mooooooo moooo moo moo moooo, mo mooo mo moo mooooooo mooooo mooo

the suspended craft seemed a coral boat grown up to us from the bottom
moo moooooooo moooo mooooo m moooo mooo moooo mo mo mo mooo moo mooooo

of the ocean.
mo moo moooo.




The wind increased to a howl; the waves dashed their bucklers together;
Moo mooo moooooooo mo m mooo; moo moooo mooooo moooo mooooooo mooooooo;

the whole squall roared, forked, and crackled around us like a white
moo moooo mooooo mooooo, mooooo, moo mooooooo mooooo mo mooo m moooo

fire upon the prairie, in which, unconsumed, we were burning; immortal
mooo mooo moo moooooo, mo moooo, mooooooooo, mo mooo moooooo; mooooooo

in these jaws of death! In vain we hailed the other boats; as well roar
mo moooo mooo mo moooo! Mo mooo mo mooooo moo moooo moooo; mo mooo mooo

to the live coals down the chimney of a flaming furnace as hail those
mo moo mooo moooo mooo moo moooooo mo m moooooo moooooo mo mooo moooo

boats in that storm. Meanwhile the driving scud, rack, and mist, grew
moooo mo mooo moooo. Moooooooo moo moooooo mooo, mooo, moo mooo, mooo

darker with the shadows of night; no sign of the ship could be seen.
mooooo mooo moo moooooo mo moooo; mo mooo mo moo mooo moooo mo mooo.

The rising sea forbade all attempts to bale out the boat. The oars were
Moo mooooo moo moooooo moo mooooooo mo mooo moo moo mooo. Moo mooo mooo

useless as propellers, performing now the office of life-preservers.
moooooo mo mooooooooo, mooooooooo moo moo mooooo mo mooo-mooooooooo.

So, cutting the lashing of the waterproof match keg, after many failures
Mo, moooooo moo moooooo mo moo mooooooooo moooo moo, moooo mooo mooooooo

Starbuck contrived to ignite the lamp in the lantern; then stretching
Mooooooo moooooooo mo mooooo moo mooo mo moo moooooo; mooo mooooooooo

it on a waif pole, handed it to Queequeg as the standard-bearer of this
mo mo m mooo mooo, mooooo mo mo Mooooooo mo moo mooooooo-mooooo mo mooo

forlorn hope. There, then, he sat, holding up that imbecile candle in
moooooo mooo. Moooo, mooo, mo moo, moooooo mo mooo mooooooo mooooo mo

the heart of that almighty forlornness. There, then, he sat, the sign
moo moooo mo mooo mooooooo moooooooooo. Moooo, mooo, mo moo, moo mooo

and symbol of a man without faith, hopelessly holding up hope in the
moo mooooo mo m moo moooooo moooo, mooooooooo moooooo mo mooo mo moo

midst of despair.
moooo mo moooooo.




Wet, drenched through, and shivering cold, despairing of ship or boat,
Moo, mooooooo moooooo, moo moooooooo mooo, mooooooooo mo mooo mo mooo,

we lifted up our eyes as the dawn came on. The mist still spread over
mo mooooo mo moo mooo mo moo mooo mooo mo. Moo mooo moooo mooooo mooo

the sea, the empty lantern lay crushed in the bottom of the boat.
moo moo, moo moooo moooooo moo moooooo mo moo mooooo mo moo mooo.

Suddenly Queequeg started to his feet, hollowing his hand to his ear.
Mooooooo Mooooooo moooooo mo moo mooo, moooooooo moo mooo mo moo moo.

We all heard a faint creaking, as of ropes and yards hitherto muffled by
Mo moo moooo m moooo mooooooo, mo mo moooo moo moooo mooooooo moooooo mo

the storm. The sound came nearer and nearer; the thick mists were dimly
moo moooo. Moo moooo mooo mooooo moo mooooo; moo moooo moooo mooo moooo

parted by a huge, vague form. Affrighted, we all sprang into the sea as
mooooo mo m mooo, moooo mooo. Mooooooooo, mo moo mooooo mooo moo moo mo

the ship at last loomed into view, bearing right down upon us within a
moo mooo mo mooo mooooo mooo mooo, moooooo moooo mooo mooo mo mooooo m

distance of not much more than its length.
mooooooo mo moo mooo mooo mooo moo mooooo.




Floating on the waves we saw the abandoned boat, as for one instant it
Mooooooo mo moo moooo mo moo moo moooooooo mooo, mo moo moo moooooo mo

tossed and gaped beneath the ship's bows like a chip at the base of a
mooooo moo moooo moooooo moo mooo'm mooo mooo m mooo mo moo mooo mo m

cataract; and then the vast hull rolled over it, and it was seen no
mooooooo; moo mooo moo mooo mooo mooooo mooo mo, moo mo moo mooo mo

more till it came up weltering astern. Again we swam for it, were dashed
mooo mooo mo mooo mo moooooooo mooooo. Moooo mo mooo moo mo, mooo mooooo

against it by the seas, and were at last taken up and safely landed on
moooooo mo mo moo mooo, moo mooo mo mooo moooo mo moo mooooo mooooo mo

board. Ere the squall came close to, the other boats had cut loose from
moooo. Moo moo mooooo mooo moooo mo, moo moooo moooo moo moo moooo mooo

their fish and returned to the ship in good time. The ship had given us
moooo mooo moo mooooooo mo moo mooo mo mooo mooo. Moo mooo moo moooo mo

up, but was still cruising, if haply it might light upon some token of
mo, moo moo moooo mooooooo, mo moooo mo moooo moooo mooo mooo moooo mo

our perishing,--an oar or a lance pole.
moo moooooooo,--mo moo mo m moooo mooo.










CHAPTER 49. The Hyena.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Moooo.







There are certain queer times and occasions in this strange mixed affair
Moooo moo moooooo moooo moooo moo moooooooo mo mooo moooooo moooo mooooo

we call life when a man takes this whole universe for a vast practical
mo mooo mooo mooo m moo moooo mooo moooo mooooooo moo m mooo moooooooo

joke, though the wit thereof he but dimly discerns, and more than
mooo, mooooo moo moo moooooo mo moo moooo mooooooo, moo mooo mooo

suspects that the joke is at nobody's expense but his own. However,
mooooooo mooo moo mooo mo mo mooooo'm moooooo moo moo moo. Moooooo,

nothing dispirits, and nothing seems worth while disputing. He bolts
moooooo moooooooo, moo moooooo moooo moooo moooo moooooooo. Mo moooo

down all events, all creeds, and beliefs, and persuasions, all hard
mooo moo mooooo, moo mooooo, moo moooooo, moo moooooooooo, moo mooo

things visible and invisible, never mind how knobby; as an ostrich of
mooooo moooooo moo moooooooo, moooo mooo moo mooooo; mo mo moooooo mo

potent digestion gobbles down bullets and gun flints. And as for small
mooooo moooooooo moooooo mooo moooooo moo moo mooooo. Moo mo moo moooo

difficulties and worryings, prospects of sudden disaster, peril of
mooooooooooo moo moooooooo, moooooooo mo mooooo mooooooo, moooo mo

life and limb; all these, and death itself, seem to him only sly,
mooo moo mooo; moo moooo, moo moooo mooooo, mooo mo moo mooo moo,

good-natured hits, and jolly punches in the side bestowed by the unseen
mooo-moooooo mooo, moo moooo moooooo mo moo mooo mooooooo mo moo mooooo

and unaccountable old joker. That odd sort of wayward mood I am speaking
moo moooooooooooo moo moooo. Mooo moo mooo mo moooooo mooo M mo mooooooo

of, comes over a man only in some time of extreme tribulation; it comes
mo, moooo mooo m moo mooo mo mooo mooo mo moooooo moooooooooo; mo moooo

in the very midst of his earnestness, so that what just before might
mo moo mooo moooo mo moo moooooooooo, mo mooo mooo mooo mooooo moooo

have seemed to him a thing most momentous, now seems but a part of the
mooo mooooo mo moo m moooo mooo moooooooo, moo moooo moo m mooo mo moo

general joke. There is nothing like the perils of whaling to breed this
moooooo mooo. Moooo mo moooooo mooo moo mooooo mo moooooo mo moooo mooo

free and easy sort of genial, desperado philosophy; and with it I now
mooo moo mooo mooo mo mooooo, moooooooo mooooooooo; moo mooo mo M moo

regarded this whole voyage of the Pequod, and the great White Whale its
mooooooo mooo moooo mooooo mo moo Mooooo, moo moo moooo Moooo Moooo moo

object.
mooooo.




"Queequeg," said I, when they had dragged me, the last man, to the deck,
"Mooooooo," mooo M, mooo mooo moo moooooo mo, moo mooo moo, mo moo mooo,

and I was still shaking myself in my jacket to fling off the water;
moo M moo moooo moooooo mooooo mo mo mooooo mo moooo moo moo moooo;

"Queequeg, my fine friend, does this sort of thing often happen?"
"Mooooooo, mo mooo mooooo, mooo mooo mooo mo moooo moooo mooooo?"

Without much emotion, though soaked through just like me, he gave me to
Moooooo mooo moooooo, mooooo mooooo moooooo mooo mooo mo, mo mooo mo mo

understand that such things did often happen.
mooooooooo mooo mooo mooooo moo moooo mooooo.




"Mr. Stubb," said I, turning to that worthy, who, buttoned up in his
"Mo. Moooo," mooo M, moooooo mo mooo mooooo, moo, mooooooo mo mo moo

oil-jacket, was now calmly smoking his pipe in the rain; "Mr. Stubb, I
moo-mooooo, moo moo mooooo moooooo moo mooo mo moo mooo; "Mo. Moooo, M

think I have heard you say that of all whalemen you ever met, our chief
moooo M mooo moooo moo moo mooo mo moo mooooooo moo mooo moo, moo moooo

mate, Mr. Starbuck, is by far the most careful and prudent. I suppose
mooo, Mo. Mooooooo, mo mo moo moo mooo moooooo moo moooooo. M moooooo

then, that going plump on a flying whale with your sail set in a foggy
mooo, mooo moooo moooo mo m mooooo moooo mooo mooo mooo moo mo m moooo

squall is the height of a whaleman's discretion?"
mooooo mo moo mooooo mo m mooooooo'm mooooooooo?"




"Certain. I've lowered for whales from a leaking ship in a gale off Cape
"Moooooo. M'mo moooooo moo mooooo mooo m moooooo mooo mo m mooo moo Mooo

Horn."
Mooo."




"Mr. Flask," said I, turning to little King-Post, who was standing close
"Mo. Moooo," mooo M, moooooo mo mooooo Mooo-Mooo, moo moo mooooooo moooo

by; "you are experienced in these things, and I am not. Will you tell
mo; "moo moo moooooooooo mo moooo mooooo, moo M mo moo. Mooo moo mooo

me whether it is an unalterable law in this fishery, Mr. Flask, for an
mo moooooo mo mo mo moooooooooo moo mo mooo moooooo, Mo. Moooo, moo mo

oarsman to break his own back pulling himself back-foremost into death's
moooooo mo moooo moo moo mooo moooooo moooooo mooo-mooooooo mooo moooo'm

jaws?"
mooo?"




"Can't you twist that smaller?" said Flask. "Yes, that's the law.
"Moo'm moo moooo mooo moooooo?" mooo Moooo. "Moo, mooo'm moo moo.

I should like to see a boat's crew backing water up to a whale face
M mooooo mooo mo moo m mooo'm mooo moooooo moooo mo mo m moooo mooo

foremost. Ha, ha! the whale would give them squint for squint, mind
mooooooo. Mo, mo! moo moooo moooo mooo mooo mooooo moo mooooo, mooo

that!"
mooo!"




Here then, from three impartial witnesses, I had a deliberate statement
Mooo mooo, mooo moooo moooooooo moooooooo, M moo m mooooooooo moooooooo

of the entire case. Considering, therefore, that squalls and capsizings
mo moo mooooo mooo. Moooooooooo, moooooooo, mooo moooooo moo mooooooooo

in the water and consequent bivouacks on the deep, were matters
mo moo moooo moo mooooooooo moooooooo mo moo mooo, mooo moooooo

of common occurrence in this kind of life; considering that at the
mo mooooo mooooooooo mo mooo mooo mo mooo; moooooooooo mooo mo moo

superlatively critical instant of going on to the whale I must resign my
moooooooooooo mooooooo moooooo mo moooo mo mo moo moooo M mooo mooooo mo

life into the hands of him who steered the boat--oftentimes a fellow who
mooo mooo moo moooo mo moo moo moooooo moo mooo--mooooooooo m mooooo moo

at that very moment is in his impetuousness upon the point of scuttling
mo mooo mooo mooooo mo mo moo moooooooooooo mooo moo moooo mo moooooooo

the craft with his own frantic stampings; considering that the
moo moooo mooo moo moo moooooo moooooooo; moooooooooo mooo moo

particular disaster to our own particular boat was chiefly to be imputed
mooooooooo mooooooo mo moo moo mooooooooo mooo moo moooooo mo mo moooooo

to Starbuck's driving on to his whale almost in the teeth of a squall,
mo Mooooooo'm moooooo mo mo moo moooo mooooo mo moo moooo mo m mooooo,

and considering that Starbuck, notwithstanding, was famous for his
moo moooooooooo mooo Mooooooo, moooooooooooooo, moo mooooo moo moo

great heedfulness in the fishery; considering that I belonged to this
moooo moooooooooo mo moo moooooo; moooooooooo mooo M mooooooo mo mooo

uncommonly prudent Starbuck's boat; and finally considering in what a
mooooooooo moooooo Mooooooo'm mooo; moo moooooo moooooooooo mo mooo m

devil's chase I was implicated, touching the White Whale: taking all
moooo'm moooo M moo mooooooooo, mooooooo moo Moooo Moooo: mooooo moo

things together, I say, I thought I might as well go below and make a
mooooo mooooooo, M moo, M moooooo M moooo mo mooo mo moooo moo mooo m

rough draft of my will. "Queequeg," said I, "come along, you shall be my
moooo moooo mo mo mooo. "Mooooooo," mooo M, "mooo moooo, moo moooo mo mo

lawyer, executor, and legatee."
mooooo, mooooooo, moo moooooo."




It may seem strange that of all men sailors should be tinkering at their
Mo moo mooo moooooo mooo mo moo moo moooooo mooooo mo moooooooo mo moooo

last wills and testaments, but there are no people in the world more
mooo moooo moo mooooooooo, moo moooo moo mo mooooo mo moo moooo mooo

fond of that diversion. This was the fourth time in my nautical life
mooo mo mooo moooooooo. Mooo moo moo mooooo mooo mo mo mooooooo mooo

that I had done the same thing. After the ceremony was concluded upon
mooo M moo mooo moo mooo moooo. Moooo moo mooooooo moo moooooooo mooo

the present occasion, I felt all the easier; a stone was rolled away
moo moooooo mooooooo, M mooo moo moo mooooo; m moooo moo mooooo mooo

from my heart. Besides, all the days I should now live would be as good
mooo mo moooo. Moooooo, moo moo mooo M mooooo moo mooo moooo mo mo mooo

as the days that Lazarus lived after his resurrection; a supplementary
mo moo mooo mooo Moooooo moooo moooo moo mooooooooooo; m moooooooooooo

clean gain of so many months or weeks as the case might be. I survived
moooo mooo mo mo mooo mooooo mo moooo mo moo mooo moooo mo. M mooooooo

myself; my death and burial were locked up in my chest. I looked
mooooo; mo moooo moo mooooo mooo mooooo mo mo mo moooo. M mooooo

round me tranquilly and contentedly, like a quiet ghost with a clean
moooo mo mooooooooo moo moooooooooo, mooo m moooo moooo mooo m moooo

conscience sitting inside the bars of a snug family vault.
mooooooooo moooooo mooooo moo mooo mo m mooo mooooo moooo.




Now then, thought I, unconsciously rolling up the sleeves of my frock,
Moo mooo, moooooo M, moooooooooooo moooooo mo moo moooooo mo mo moooo,

here goes for a cool, collected dive at death and destruction, and the
mooo mooo moo m mooo, moooooooo mooo mo moooo moo moooooooooo, moo moo

devil fetch the hindmost.
moooo moooo moo mooooooo.










CHAPTER 50. Ahab's Boat and Crew. Fedallah.
MOOOOOO mo. Mooo'm Mooo moo Mooo. Mooooooo.







"Who would have thought it, Flask!" cried Stubb; "if I had but one leg
"Moo moooo mooo moooooo mo, Moooo!" moooo Moooo; "mo M moo moo moo moo

you would not catch me in a boat, unless maybe to stop the plug-hole
moo moooo moo moooo mo mo m mooo, mooooo moooo mo mooo moo mooo-mooo

with my timber toe. Oh! he's a wonderful old man!"
mooo mo mooooo moo. Mo! mo'm m moooooooo moo moo!"




"I don't think it so strange, after all, on that account," said Flask.
"M moo'm moooo mo mo moooooo, moooo moo, mo mooo moooooo," mooo Moooo.

"If his leg were off at the hip, now, it would be a different thing.
"Mo moo moo mooo moo mo moo moo, moo, mo moooo mo m moooooooo moooo.

That would disable him; but he has one knee, and good part of the other
Mooo moooo moooooo moo; moo mo moo moo mooo, moo mooo mooo mo moo moooo

left, you know."
mooo, moo mooo."




"I don't know that, my little man; I never yet saw him kneel."
"M moo'm mooo mooo, mo mooooo moo; M moooo moo moo moo moooo."







Among whale-wise people it has often been argued whether, considering
Moooo moooo-mooo mooooo mo moo moooo mooo mooooo moooooo, moooooooooo

the paramount importance of his life to the success of the voyage, it is
moo moooooooo mooooooooo mo moo mooo mo moo moooooo mo moo mooooo, mo mo

right for a whaling captain to jeopardize that life in the active perils
moooo moo m moooooo moooooo mo mooooooooo mooo mooo mo moo mooooo mooooo

of the chase. So Tamerlane's soldiers often argued with tears in their
mo moo moooo. Mo Moooooooo'm mooooooo moooo mooooo mooo moooo mo moooo

eyes, whether that invaluable life of his ought to be carried into the
mooo, moooooo mooo mooooooooo mooo mo moo moooo mo mo moooooo mooo moo

thickest of the fight.
mooooooo mo moo moooo.




But with Ahab the question assumed a modified aspect. Considering
Moo mooo Mooo moo mooooooo moooooo m mooooooo mooooo. Moooooooooo

that with two legs man is but a hobbling wight in all times of danger;
mooo mooo moo mooo moo mo moo m mooooooo moooo mo moo moooo mo mooooo;

considering that the pursuit of whales is always under great and
moooooooooo mooo moo moooooo mo mooooo mo mooooo moooo moooo moo

extraordinary difficulties; that every individual moment, indeed, then
moooooooooooo mooooooooooo; mooo moooo mooooooooo mooooo, mooooo, mooo

comprises a peril; under these circumstances is it wise for any
moooooooo m moooo; moooo moooo moooooooooooo mo mo mooo moo moo

maimed man to enter a whale-boat in the hunt? As a general thing, the
mooooo moo mo moooo m moooo-mooo mo moo mooo? Mo m moooooo moooo, moo

joint-owners of the Pequod must have plainly thought not.
moooo-mooooo mo moo Mooooo mooo mooo moooooo moooooo moo.




Ahab well knew that although his friends at home would think little of
Mooo mooo mooo mooo mooooooo moo moooooo mo mooo moooo moooo mooooo mo

his entering a boat in certain comparatively harmless vicissitudes of
moo mooooooo m mooo mo moooooo moooooooooooo mooooooo mooooooooooo mo

the chase, for the sake of being near the scene of action and giving
moo moooo, moo moo mooo mo moooo mooo moo moooo mo mooooo moo mooooo

his orders in person, yet for Captain Ahab to have a boat actually
moo mooooo mo mooooo, moo moo Moooooo Mooo mo mooo m mooo mooooooo

apportioned to him as a regular headsman in the hunt--above all for
moooooooooo mo moo mo m moooooo mooooooo mo moo mooo--moooo moo moo

Captain Ahab to be supplied with five extra men, as that same boat's
Moooooo Mooo mo mo mooooooo mooo mooo moooo moo, mo mooo mooo mooo'm

crew, he well knew that such generous conceits never entered the heads
mooo, mo mooo mooo mooo mooo mooooooo mooooooo moooo moooooo moo moooo

of the owners of the Pequod. Therefore he had not solicited a boat's
mo moo mooooo mo moo Mooooo. Moooooooo mo moo moo moooooooo m mooo'm

crew from them, nor had he in any way hinted his desires on that head.
mooo mooo mooo, moo moo mo mo moo moo mooooo moo moooooo mo mooo mooo.

Nevertheless he had taken private measures of his own touching all
Mooooooooooo mo moo moooo moooooo mooooooo mo moo moo mooooooo moo

that matter. Until Cabaco's published discovery, the sailors had little
mooo mooooo. Moooo Mooooo'm moooooooo moooooooo, moo moooooo moo mooooo

foreseen it, though to be sure when, after being a little while out
mooooooo mo, mooooo mo mo mooo mooo, moooo moooo m mooooo moooo moo

of port, all hands had concluded the customary business of fitting the
mo mooo, moo moooo moo moooooooo moo moooooooo mooooooo mo moooooo moo

whaleboats for service; when some time after this Ahab was now and then
mooooooooo moo moooooo; mooo mooo mooo moooo mooo Mooo moo moo moo mooo

found bestirring himself in the matter of making thole-pins with his
moooo mooooooooo moooooo mo moo mooooo mo mooooo moooo-mooo mooo moo

own hands for what was thought to be one of the spare boats, and even
moo moooo moo mooo moo moooooo mo mo moo mo moo moooo moooo, moo mooo

solicitously cutting the small wooden skewers, which when the line is
mooooooooooo moooooo moo moooo mooooo moooooo, moooo mooo moo mooo mo

running out are pinned over the groove in the bow: when all this was
moooooo moo moo mooooo mooo moo mooooo mo moo moo: mooo moo mooo moo

observed in him, and particularly his solicitude in having an extra
mooooooo mo moo, moo mooooooooooo moo mooooooooo mo mooooo mo moooo

coat of sheathing in the bottom of the boat, as if to make it better
mooo mo moooooooo mo moo mooooo mo moo mooo, mo mo mo mooo mo mooooo

withstand the pointed pressure of his ivory limb; and also the anxiety
moooooooo moo moooooo mooooooo mo moo moooo mooo; moo mooo moo moooooo

he evinced in exactly shaping the thigh board, or clumsy cleat, as it is
mo moooooo mo moooooo moooooo moo moooo moooo, mo mooooo moooo, mo mo mo

sometimes called, the horizontal piece in the boat's bow for bracing the
moooooooo mooooo, moo mooooooooo moooo mo moo mooo'm moo moo moooooo moo

knee against in darting or stabbing at the whale; when it was observed
mooo moooooo mo moooooo mo mooooooo mo moo moooo; mooo mo moo mooooooo

how often he stood up in that boat with his solitary knee fixed in the
moo moooo mo moooo mo mo mooo mooo mooo moo mooooooo mooo moooo mo moo

semi-circular depression in the cleat, and with the carpenter's chisel
mooo-mooooooo mooooooooo mo moo moooo, moo mooo moo moooooooo'm mooooo

gouged out a little here and straightened it a little there; all these
mooooo moo m mooooo mooo moo mooooooooooo mo m mooooo moooo; moo moooo

things, I say, had awakened much interest and curiosity at the time. But
mooooo, M moo, moo mooooooo mooo mooooooo moo moooooooo mo moo mooo. Moo

almost everybody supposed that this particular preparative heedfulness
mooooo moooooooo mooooooo mooo mooo mooooooooo moooooooooo moooooooooo

in Ahab must only be with a view to the ultimate chase of Moby Dick;
mo Mooo mooo mooo mo mooo m mooo mo moo mooooooo moooo mo Mooo Mooo;

for he had already revealed his intention to hunt that mortal monster
moo mo moo moooooo mooooooo moo moooooooo mo mooo mooo mooooo moooooo

in person. But such a supposition did by no means involve the remotest
mo mooooo. Moo mooo m moooooooooo moo mo mo moooo moooooo moo mooooooo

suspicion as to any boat's crew being assigned to that boat.
moooooooo mo mo moo mooo'm mooo moooo mooooooo mo mooo mooo.




Now, with the subordinate phantoms, what wonder remained soon waned
Moo, mooo moo moooooooooo mooooooo, mooo mooooo mooooooo mooo moooo

away; for in a whaler wonders soon wane. Besides, now and then such
mooo; moo mo m mooooo moooooo mooo mooo. Moooooo, moo moo mooo mooo

unaccountable odds and ends of strange nations come up from the unknown
moooooooooooo mooo moo mooo mo moooooo moooooo mooo mo mooo moo moooooo

nooks and ash-holes of the earth to man these floating outlaws of
moooo moo moo-moooo mo moo moooo mo moo moooo mooooooo moooooo mo

whalers; and the ships themselves often pick up such queer castaway
moooooo; moo moo moooo mooooooooo moooo mooo mo mooo moooo mooooooo

creatures found tossing about the open sea on planks, bits of wreck,
moooooooo moooo moooooo moooo moo mooo moo mo mooooo, mooo mo moooo,

oars, whaleboats, canoes, blown-off Japanese junks, and what not; that
mooo, mooooooooo, mooooo, moooo-moo Mooooooo moooo, moo mooo moo; mooo

Beelzebub himself might climb up the side and step down into the cabin
Moooooooo moooooo moooo moooo mo moo mooo moo mooo mooo mooo moo moooo

to chat with the captain, and it would not create any unsubduable
mo mooo mooo moo moooooo, moo mo moooo moo mooooo moo moooooooooo

excitement in the forecastle.
mooooooooo mo moo mooooooooo.




But be all this as it may, certain it is that while the subordinate
Moo mo moo mooo mo mo moo, moooooo mo mo mooo moooo moo moooooooooo

phantoms soon found their place among the crew, though still as it were
mooooooo mooo moooo moooo moooo moooo moo mooo, mooooo moooo mo mo mooo

somehow distinct from them, yet that hair-turbaned Fedallah remained
moooooo mooooooo mooo mooo, moo mooo mooo-mooooooo Mooooooo mooooooo

a muffled mystery to the last. Whence he came in a mannerly world like
m moooooo moooooo mo moo mooo. Mooooo mo mooo mo m mooooooo moooo mooo

this, by what sort of unaccountable tie he soon evinced himself to be
mooo, mo mooo mooo mo moooooooooooo moo mo mooo moooooo moooooo mo mo

linked with Ahab's peculiar fortunes; nay, so far as to have some sort
mooooo mooo Mooo'm mooooooo mooooooo; moo, mo moo mo mo mooo mooo mooo

of a half-hinted influence; Heaven knows, but it might have been even
mo m mooo-mooooo moooooooo; Mooooo moooo, moo mo moooo mooo mooo mooo

authority over him; all this none knew. But one cannot sustain
moooooooo mooo moo; moo mooo mooo mooo. Moo moo mooooo moooooo

an indifferent air concerning Fedallah. He was such a creature as
mo moooooooooo moo mooooooooo Mooooooo. Mo moo mooo m mooooooo mo

civilized, domestic people in the temperate zone only see in their
moooooooo, mooooooo mooooo mo moo moooooooo mooo mooo moo mo moooo

dreams, and that but dimly; but the like of whom now and then glide
mooooo, moo mooo moo moooo; moo moo mooo mo mooo moo moo mooo moooo

among the unchanging Asiatic communities, especially the Oriental isles
moooo moo mooooooooo Moooooo moooooooooo, mooooooooo moo Mooooooo moooo

to the east of the continent--those insulated, immemorial, unalterable
mo moo mooo mo moo moooooooo--moooo moooooooo, mooooooooo, moooooooooo

countries, which even in these modern days still preserve much of the
moooooooo, moooo mooo mo moooo mooooo mooo moooo mooooooo mooo mo moo

ghostly aboriginalness of earth's primal generations, when the memory of
moooooo mooooooooooooo mo moooo'm mooooo moooooooooo, mooo moo mooooo mo

the first man was a distinct recollection, and all men his descendants,
moo moooo moo moo m mooooooo mooooooooooo, moo moo moo moo moooooooooo,

unknowing whence he came, eyed each other as real phantoms, and asked of
moooooooo mooooo mo mooo, mooo mooo moooo mo mooo mooooooo, moo moooo mo

the sun and the moon why they were created and to what end; when though,
moo moo moo moo mooo moo mooo mooo moooooo moo mo mooo moo; mooo mooooo,

according to Genesis, the angels indeed consorted with the daughters of
moooooooo mo Moooooo, moo mooooo mooooo moooooooo mooo moo moooooooo mo

men, the devils also, add the uncanonical Rabbins, indulged in mundane
moo, moo mooooo mooo, moo moo moooooooooo Moooooo, mooooooo mo moooooo

amours.
mooooo.










CHAPTER 51. The Spirit-Spout.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Mooooo-Moooo.







Days, weeks passed, and under easy sail, the ivory Pequod had slowly
Mooo, moooo mooooo, moo moooo mooo mooo, moo moooo Mooooo moo mooooo

swept across four several cruising-grounds; that off the Azores; off the
moooo mooooo mooo moooooo mooooooo-moooooo; mooo moo moo Mooooo; moo moo

Cape de Verdes; on the Plate (so called), being off the mouth of the
Mooo mo Mooooo; mo moo Moooo (mo mooooo), moooo moo moo moooo mo moo

Rio de la Plata; and the Carrol Ground, an unstaked, watery locality,
Moo mo mo Moooo; moo moo Mooooo Mooooo, mo mooooooo, mooooo mooooooo,

southerly from St. Helena.
moooooooo mooo Mo. Mooooo.




It was while gliding through these latter waters that one serene and
Mo moo moooo moooooo moooooo moooo mooooo mooooo mooo moo mooooo moo

moonlight night, when all the waves rolled by like scrolls of silver;
moooooooo moooo, mooo moo moo moooo mooooo mo mooo moooooo mo mooooo;

and, by their soft, suffusing seethings, made what seemed a silvery
moo, mo moooo mooo, moooooooo moooooooo, mooo mooo mooooo m moooooo

silence, not a solitude; on such a silent night a silvery jet was seen
moooooo, moo m mooooooo; mo mooo m mooooo moooo m moooooo moo moo mooo

far in advance of the white bubbles at the bow. Lit up by the moon, it
moo mo moooooo mo moo moooo moooooo mo moo moo. Moo mo mo moo mooo, mo

looked celestial; seemed some plumed and glittering god uprising from
mooooo moooooooo; mooooo mooo mooooo moo mooooooooo moo mooooooo mooo

the sea. Fedallah first descried this jet. For of these moonlight
moo moo. Mooooooo moooo mooooooo mooo moo. Moo mo moooo moooooooo

nights, it was his wont to mount to the main-mast head, and stand a
mooooo, mo moo moo mooo mo moooo mo moo mooo-mooo mooo, moo moooo m

look-out there, with the same precision as if it had been day. And yet,
mooo-moo moooo, mooo moo mooo moooooooo mo mo mo moo mooo moo. Moo moo,

though herds of whales were seen by night, not one whaleman in a hundred
mooooo moooo mo mooooo mooo mooo mo moooo, moo moo mooooooo mo m moooooo

would venture a lowering for them. You may think with what emotions,
moooo moooooo m mooooooo moo mooo. Moo moo moooo mooo mooo mooooooo,

then, the seamen beheld this old Oriental perched aloft at such unusual
mooo, moo mooooo mooooo mooo moo Mooooooo moooooo moooo mo mooo moooooo

hours; his turban and the moon, companions in one sky. But when, after
moooo; moo mooooo moo moo mooo, mooooooooo mo moo moo. Moo mooo, moooo

spending his uniform interval there for several successive nights
mooooooo moo moooooo mooooooo moooo moo moooooo mooooooooo mooooo

without uttering a single sound; when, after all this silence, his
moooooo mooooooo m mooooo moooo; mooo, moooo moo mooo moooooo, moo

unearthly voice was heard announcing that silvery, moon-lit jet, every
moooooooo moooo moo moooo mooooooooo mooo moooooo, mooo-moo moo, moooo

reclining mariner started to his feet as if some winged spirit had
moooooooo moooooo moooooo mo moo mooo mo mo mooo mooooo mooooo moo

lighted in the rigging, and hailed the mortal crew. "There she blows!"
moooooo mo moo moooooo, moo mooooo moo mooooo mooo. "Moooo moo moooo!"

Had the trump of judgment blown, they could not have quivered more; yet
Moo moo moooo mo mooooooo moooo, mooo moooo moo mooo mooooooo mooo; moo

still they felt no terror; rather pleasure. For though it was a most
moooo mooo mooo mo mooooo; mooooo mooooooo. Moo mooooo mo moo m mooo

unwonted hour, yet so impressive was the cry, and so deliriously
mooooooo mooo, moo mo mooooooooo moo moo moo, moo mo moooooooooo

exciting, that almost every soul on board instinctively desired a
mooooooo, mooo mooooo moooo mooo mo moooo moooooooooooo moooooo m

lowering.
mooooooo.




Walking the deck with quick, side-lunging strides, Ahab commanded the
Moooooo moo mooo mooo moooo, mooo-moooooo moooooo, Mooo moooooooo moo

t'gallant sails and royals to be set, and every stunsail spread. The
m'moooooo moooo moo mooooo mo mo moo, moo moooo mooooooo mooooo. Moo

best man in the ship must take the helm. Then, with every mast-head
mooo moo mo moo mooo mooo mooo moo mooo. Mooo, mooo moooo mooo-mooo

manned, the piled-up craft rolled down before the wind. The strange,
mooooo, moo moooo-mo moooo mooooo mooo mooooo moo mooo. Moo moooooo,

upheaving, lifting tendency of the taffrail breeze filling the hollows
moooooooo, moooooo mooooooo mo moo mooooooo mooooo moooooo moo moooooo

of so many sails, made the buoyant, hovering deck to feel like air
mo mo mooo moooo, mooo moo moooooo, mooooooo mooo mo mooo mooo moo

beneath the feet; while still she rushed along, as if two antagonistic
moooooo moo mooo; moooo moooo moo mooooo moooo, mo mo moo mooooooooooo

influences were struggling in her--one to mount direct to heaven, the
mooooooooo mooo mooooooooo mo moo--moo mo moooo mooooo mo mooooo, moo

other to drive yawingly to some horizontal goal. And had you watched
moooo mo moooo mooooooo mo mooo mooooooooo mooo. Moo moo moo moooooo

Ahab's face that night, you would have thought that in him also two
Mooo'm mooo mooo moooo, moo moooo mooo moooooo mooo mo moo mooo moo

different things were warring. While his one live leg made lively echoes
moooooooo mooooo mooo moooooo. Moooo moo moo mooo moo mooo mooooo mooooo

along the deck, every stroke of his dead limb sounded like a coffin-tap.
moooo moo mooo, moooo mooooo mo moo mooo mooo moooooo mooo m mooooo-moo.

On life and death this old man walked. But though the ship so swiftly
Mo mooo moo moooo mooo moo moo mooooo. Moo mooooo moo mooo mo moooooo

sped, and though from every eye, like arrows, the eager glances shot,
mooo, moo mooooo mooo moooo moo, mooo mooooo, moo moooo moooooo mooo,

yet the silvery jet was no more seen that night. Every sailor swore he
moo moo moooooo moo moo mo mooo mooo mooo moooo. Moooo mooooo moooo mo

saw it once, but not a second time.
moo mo mooo, moo moo m mooooo mooo.




This midnight-spout had almost grown a forgotten thing, when, some days
Mooo mooooooo-moooo moo mooooo moooo m moooooooo moooo, mooo, mooo mooo

after, lo! at the same silent hour, it was again announced: again it
moooo, mo! mo moo mooo mooooo mooo, mo moo moooo moooooooo: moooo mo

was descried by all; but upon making sail to overtake it, once more it
moo mooooooo mo moo; moo mooo mooooo mooo mo mooooooo mo, mooo mooo mo

disappeared as if it had never been. And so it served us night after
moooooooooo mo mo mo moo moooo mooo. Moo mo mo mooooo mo moooo moooo

night, till no one heeded it but to wonder at it. Mysteriously
moooo, mooo mo moo mooooo mo moo mo mooooo mo mo. Mooooooooooo

jetted into the clear moonlight, or starlight, as the case might be;
mooooo mooo moo moooo moooooooo, mo moooooooo, mo moo mooo moooo mo;

disappearing again for one whole day, or two days, or three; and somehow
mooooooooooo moooo moo moo moooo moo, mo moo mooo, mo moooo; moo moooooo

seeming at every distinct repetition to be advancing still further and
moooooo mo moooo mooooooo mooooooooo mo mo moooooooo moooo moooooo moo

further in our van, this solitary jet seemed for ever alluring us on.
moooooo mo moo moo, mooo mooooooo moo mooooo moo mooo mooooooo mo mo.




Nor with the immemorial superstition of their race, and in accordance
Moo mooo moo mooooooooo mooooooooooo mo moooo mooo, moo mo mooooooooo

with the preternaturalness, as it seemed, which in many things invested
mooo moo moooooooooooooooo, mo mo mooooo, moooo mo mooo mooooo mooooooo

the Pequod, were there wanting some of the seamen who swore that
moo Mooooo, mooo moooo moooooo mooo mo moo mooooo moo moooo mooo

whenever and wherever descried; at however remote times, or in however
mooooooo moo mooooooo mooooooo; mo moooooo mooooo moooo, mo mo moooooo

far apart latitudes and longitudes, that unnearable spout was cast
moo moooo moooooooo moo mooooooooo, mooo mooooooooo moooo moo mooo

by one self-same whale; and that whale, Moby Dick. For a time, there
mo moo mooo-mooo moooo; moo mooo moooo, Mooo Mooo. Moo m mooo, moooo

reigned, too, a sense of peculiar dread at this flitting apparition,
moooooo, moo, m moooo mo mooooooo moooo mo mooo mooooooo mooooooooo,

as if it were treacherously beckoning us on and on, in order that the
mo mo mo mooo moooooooooooo moooooooo mo mo moo mo, mo moooo mooo moo

monster might turn round upon us, and rend us at last in the remotest
moooooo moooo mooo moooo mooo mo, moo mooo mo mo mooo mo moo mooooooo

and most savage seas.
moo mooo mooooo mooo.




These temporary apprehensions, so vague but so awful, derived a wondrous
Moooo moooooooo moooooooooooo, mo moooo moo mo moooo, moooooo m mooooooo

potency from the contrasting serenity of the weather, in which, beneath
moooooo mooo moo moooooooooo mooooooo mo moo moooooo, mo moooo, moooooo

all its blue blandness, some thought there lurked a devilish charm, as
moo moo mooo moooooooo, mooo moooooo moooo mooooo m mooooooo moooo, mo

for days and days we voyaged along, through seas so wearily, lonesomely
moo mooo moo mooo mo moooooo moooo, moooooo mooo mo moooooo, mooooooooo

mild, that all space, in repugnance to our vengeful errand, seemed
mooo, mooo moo moooo, mo mooooooooo mo moo mooooooo mooooo, mooooo

vacating itself of life before our urn-like prow.
mooooooo mooooo mo mooo mooooo moo moo-mooo mooo.




But, at last, when turning to the eastward, the Cape winds began howling
Moo, mo mooo, mooo moooooo mo moo mooooooo, moo Mooo moooo moooo moooooo

around us, and we rose and fell upon the long, troubled seas that are
mooooo mo, moo mo mooo moo mooo mooo moo mooo, mooooooo mooo mooo moo

there; when the ivory-tusked Pequod sharply bowed to the blast, and
moooo; mooo moo moooo-mooooo Mooooo moooooo moooo mo moo moooo, moo

gored the dark waves in her madness, till, like showers of silver chips,
moooo moo mooo moooo mo moo moooooo, mooo, mooo moooooo mo mooooo moooo,

the foam-flakes flew over her bulwarks; then all this desolate vacuity
moo mooo-mooooo mooo mooo moo mooooooo; mooo moo mooo mooooooo moooooo

of life went away, but gave place to sights more dismal than before.
mo mooo mooo mooo, moo mooo moooo mo mooooo mooo mooooo mooo mooooo.




Close to our bows, strange forms in the water darted hither and thither
Moooo mo moo mooo, moooooo moooo mo moo moooo mooooo mooooo moo moooooo

before us; while thick in our rear flew the inscrutable sea-ravens. And
mooooo mo; moooo moooo mo moo mooo mooo moo moooooooooo moo-mooooo. Moo

every morning, perched on our stays, rows of these birds were seen; and
moooo moooooo, moooooo mo moo moooo, mooo mo moooo moooo mooo mooo; moo

spite of our hootings, for a long time obstinately clung to the hemp,
moooo mo moo mooooooo, moo m mooo mooo moooooooooo moooo mo moo mooo,

as though they deemed our ship some drifting, uninhabited craft; a thing
mo mooooo mooo mooooo moo mooo mooo mooooooo, moooooooooo moooo; m moooo

appointed to desolation, and therefore fit roosting-place for their
moooooooo mo mooooooooo, moo moooooooo moo mooooooo-moooo moo moooo

homeless selves. And heaved and heaved, still unrestingly heaved the
mooooooo mooooo. Moo mooooo moo mooooo, moooo moooooooooo mooooo moo

black sea, as if its vast tides were a conscience; and the great mundane
moooo moo, mo mo moo mooo moooo mooo m mooooooooo; moo moo moooo moooooo

soul were in anguish and remorse for the long sin and suffering it had
mooo mooo mo moooooo moo moooooo moo moo mooo moo moo moooooooo mo moo

bred.
mooo.




Cape of Good Hope, do they call ye? Rather Cape Tormentoto, as called
Mooo mo Mooo Mooo, mo mooo mooo mo? Mooooo Mooo Mooooooooo, mo mooooo

of yore; for long allured by the perfidious silences that before had
mo mooo; moo mooo moooooo mo moo mooooooooo mooooooo mooo mooooo moo

attended us, we found ourselves launched into this tormented sea,
mooooooo mo, mo moooo moooooooo mooooooo mooo mooo moooooooo moo,

where guilty beings transformed into those fowls and these fish, seemed
moooo mooooo mooooo moooooooooo mooo moooo moooo moo moooo mooo, mooooo

condemned to swim on everlastingly without any haven in store, or beat
moooooooo mo mooo mo moooooooooooo moooooo moo moooo mo moooo, mo mooo

that black air without any horizon. But calm, snow-white, and unvarying;
mooo moooo moo moooooo moo moooooo. Moo mooo, mooo-moooo, moo moooooooo;

still directing its fountain of feathers to the sky; still beckoning us
moooo moooooooo moo mooooooo mo mooooooo mo moo moo; moooo moooooooo mo

on from before, the solitary jet would at times be descried.
mo mooo mooooo, moo mooooooo moo moooo mo moooo mo mooooooo.




During all this blackness of the elements, Ahab, though assuming for the
Mooooo moo mooo moooooooo mo moo mooooooo, Mooo, mooooo mooooooo moo moo

time the almost continual command of the drenched and dangerous deck,
mooo moo mooooo moooooooo moooooo mo moo mooooooo moo moooooooo mooo,

manifested the gloomiest reserve; and more seldom than ever addressed
mooooooooo moo moooooooo moooooo; moo mooo mooooo mooo mooo moooooooo

his mates. In tempestuous times like these, after everything above and
moo moooo. Mo moooooooooo moooo mooo moooo, moooo mooooooooo moooo moo

aloft has been secured, nothing more can be done but passively to await
moooo moo mooo moooooo, moooooo mooo moo mo mooo moo moooooooo mo moooo

the issue of the gale. Then Captain and crew become practical fatalists.
moo moooo mo moo mooo. Mooo Moooooo moo mooo mooooo moooooooo moooooooo.

So, with his ivory leg inserted into its accustomed hole, and with one
Mo, mooo moo moooo moo mooooooo mooo moo mooooooooo mooo, moo mooo moo

hand firmly grasping a shroud, Ahab for hours and hours would stand
mooo mooooo mooooooo m mooooo, Mooo moo moooo moo moooo moooo moooo

gazing dead to windward, while an occasional squall of sleet or snow
mooooo mooo mo mooooooo, moooo mo mooooooooo mooooo mo moooo mo mooo

would all but congeal his very eyelashes together. Meantime, the crew
moooo moo moo moooooo moo mooo moooooooo mooooooo. Mooooooo, moo mooo

driven from the forward part of the ship by the perilous seas that
mooooo mooo moo moooooo mooo mo moo mooo mo moo mooooooo mooo mooo

burstingly broke over its bows, stood in a line along the bulwarks in
mooooooooo moooo mooo moo mooo, moooo mo m mooo moooo moo mooooooo mo

the waist; and the better to guard against the leaping waves, each man
moo moooo; moo moo mooooo mo moooo moooooo moo moooooo moooo, mooo moo

had slipped himself into a sort of bowline secured to the rail, in which
moo moooooo moooooo mooo m mooo mo moooooo moooooo mo moo mooo, mo moooo

he swung as in a loosened belt. Few or no words were spoken; and the
mo moooo mo mo m mooooooo mooo. Moo mo mo moooo mooo mooooo; moo moo

silent ship, as if manned by painted sailors in wax, day after day tore
mooooo mooo, mo mo mooooo mo moooooo moooooo mo moo, moo moooo moo mooo

on through all the swift madness and gladness of the demoniac waves.
mo moooooo moo moo moooo moooooo moo mooooooo mo moo mooooooo moooo.

By night the same muteness of humanity before the shrieks of the
Mo moooo moo mooo mooooooo mo mooooooo mooooo moo moooooo mo moo

ocean prevailed; still in silence the men swung in the bowlines; still
moooo moooooooo; moooo mo moooooo moo moo moooo mo moo mooooooo; moooo

wordless Ahab stood up to the blast. Even when wearied nature seemed
mooooooo Mooo moooo mo mo moo moooo. Mooo mooo moooooo mooooo mooooo

demanding repose he would not seek that repose in his hammock. Never
moooooooo mooooo mo moooo moo mooo mooo mooooo mo moo moooooo. Moooo

could Starbuck forget the old man's aspect, when one night going down
moooo Mooooooo mooooo moo moo moo'm mooooo, mooo moo moooo moooo mooo

into the cabin to mark how the barometer stood, he saw him with
mooo moo moooo mo mooo moo moo moooooooo moooo, mo moo moo mooo

closed eyes sitting straight in his floor-screwed chair; the rain
mooooo mooo moooooo mooooooo mo moo moooo-moooooo moooo; moo mooo

and half-melted sleet of the storm from which he had some time before
moo mooo-mooooo moooo mo moo moooo mooo moooo mo moo mooo mooo mooooo

emerged, still slowly dripping from the unremoved hat and coat. On the
moooooo, moooo mooooo mooooooo mooo moo moooooooo moo moo mooo. Mo moo

table beside him lay unrolled one of those charts of tides and currents
moooo mooooo moo moo mooooooo moo mo moooo mooooo mo moooo moo mooooooo

which have previously been spoken of. His lantern swung from his tightly
moooo mooo mooooooooo mooo mooooo mo. Moo moooooo moooo mooo moo moooooo

clenched hand. Though the body was erect, the head was thrown back so
mooooooo mooo. Mooooo moo mooo moo moooo, moo mooo moo mooooo mooo mo

that the closed eyes were pointed towards the needle of the tell-tale
mooo moo mooooo mooo mooo moooooo moooooo moo mooooo mo moo mooo-mooo

that swung from a beam in the ceiling.*
mooo moooo mooo m mooo mo moo moooooo.*







*The cabin-compass is called the tell-tale, because without going to the
*Moo moooo-moooooo mo mooooo moo mooo-mooo, moooooo moooooo moooo mo moo

compass at the helm, the Captain, while below, can inform himself of the
moooooo mo moo mooo, moo Moooooo, moooo moooo, moo mooooo moooooo mo moo

course of the ship.
mooooo mo moo mooo.







Terrible old man! thought Starbuck with a shudder, sleeping in this
Mooooooo moo moo! moooooo Mooooooo mooo m moooooo, mooooooo mo mooo

gale, still thou steadfastly eyest thy purpose.
mooo, moooo mooo moooooooooo moooo moo moooooo.










CHAPTER 52. The Albatross.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Moooooooo.







South-eastward from the Cape, off the distant Crozetts, a good cruising
Moooo-mooooooo mooo moo Mooo, moo moo moooooo Mooooooo, m mooo mooooooo

ground for Right Whalemen, a sail loomed ahead, the Goney (Albatross)
mooooo moo Moooo Mooooooo, m mooo mooooo moooo, moo Moooo (Moooooooo)

by name. As she slowly drew nigh, from my lofty perch at the
mo mooo. Mo moo mooooo mooo mooo, mooo mo moooo moooo mo moo

fore-mast-head, I had a good view of that sight so remarkable to a tyro
mooo-mooo-mooo, M moo m mooo mooo mo mooo moooo mo mooooooooo mo m mooo

in the far ocean fisheries--a whaler at sea, and long absent from home.
mo moo moo moooo moooooooo--m mooooo mo moo, moo mooo mooooo mooo mooo.




As if the waves had been fullers, this craft was bleached like the
Mo mo moo moooo moo mooo moooooo, mooo moooo moo mooooooo mooo moo

skeleton of a stranded walrus. All down her sides, this spectral
mooooooo mo m mooooooo mooooo. Moo mooo moo moooo, mooo mooooooo

appearance was traced with long channels of reddened rust, while all her
mooooooooo moo mooooo mooo mooo mooooooo mo mooooooo mooo, moooo moo moo

spars and her rigging were like the thick branches of trees furred over
moooo moo moo moooooo mooo mooo moo moooo mooooooo mo moooo mooooo mooo

with hoar-frost. Only her lower sails were set. A wild sight it was to
mooo mooo-moooo. Mooo moo moooo moooo mooo moo. M mooo moooo mo moo mo

see her long-bearded look-outs at those three mast-heads. They seemed
moo moo mooo-moooooo mooo-mooo mo moooo moooo mooo-moooo. Mooo mooooo

clad in the skins of beasts, so torn and bepatched the raiment that had
mooo mo moo moooo mo mooooo, mo mooo moo moooooooo moo moooooo mooo moo

survived nearly four years of cruising. Standing in iron hoops nailed to
mooooooo mooooo mooo moooo mo mooooooo. Mooooooo mo mooo moooo mooooo mo

the mast, they swayed and swung over a fathomless sea; and though, when
moo mooo, mooo mooooo moo moooo mooo m mooooooooo moo; moo mooooo, mooo

the ship slowly glided close under our stern, we six men in the air
moo mooo mooooo mooooo moooo moooo moo moooo, mo moo moo mo moo moo

came so nigh to each other that we might almost have leaped from the
mooo mo mooo mo mooo moooo mooo mo moooo mooooo mooo mooooo mooo moo

mast-heads of one ship to those of the other; yet, those forlorn-looking
mooo-moooo mo moo mooo mo moooo mo moo moooo; moo, moooo moooooo-moooooo

fishermen, mildly eyeing us as they passed, said not one word to our own
moooooooo, mooooo mooooo mo mo mooo mooooo, mooo moo moo mooo mo moo moo

look-outs, while the quarter-deck hail was being heard from below.
mooo-mooo, moooo moo moooooo-mooo mooo moo moooo moooo mooo moooo.




"Ship ahoy! Have ye seen the White Whale?"
"Mooo mooo! Mooo mo mooo moo Moooo Moooo?"




But as the strange captain, leaning over the pallid bulwarks, was in the
Moo mo moo moooooo moooooo, moooooo mooo moo mooooo mooooooo, moo mo moo

act of putting his trumpet to his mouth, it somehow fell from his hand
moo mo moooooo moo moooooo mo moo moooo, mo moooooo mooo mooo moo mooo

into the sea; and the wind now rising amain, he in vain strove to make
mooo moo moo; moo moo mooo moo mooooo moooo, mo mo mooo mooooo mo mooo

himself heard without it. Meantime his ship was still increasing the
moooooo moooo moooooo mo. Mooooooo moo mooo moo moooo mooooooooo moo

distance between. While in various silent ways the seamen of the Pequod
mooooooo moooooo. Moooo mo moooooo mooooo mooo moo mooooo mo moo Mooooo

were evincing their observance of this ominous incident at the first
mooo mooooooo moooo mooooooooo mo mooo moooooo mooooooo mo moo moooo

mere mention of the White Whale's name to another ship, Ahab for a
mooo moooooo mo moo Moooo Moooo'm mooo mo moooooo mooo, Mooo moo m

moment paused; it almost seemed as though he would have lowered a boat
mooooo mooooo; mo mooooo mooooo mo mooooo mo moooo mooo moooooo m mooo

to board the stranger, had not the threatening wind forbade. But taking
mo moooo moo mooooooo, moo moo moo moooooooooo mooo moooooo. Moo mooooo

advantage of his windward position, he again seized his trumpet, and
moooooooo mo moo mooooooo mooooooo, mo moooo mooooo moo moooooo, moo

knowing by her aspect that the stranger vessel was a Nantucketer and
moooooo mo moo mooooo mooo moo mooooooo mooooo moo m Moooooooooo moo

shortly bound home, he loudly hailed--"Ahoy there! This is the Pequod,
moooooo moooo mooo, mo mooooo mooooo--"Mooo moooo! Mooo mo moo Mooooo,

bound round the world! Tell them to address all future letters to the
moooo moooo moo moooo! Mooo mooo mo moooooo moo mooooo moooooo mo moo

Pacific ocean! and this time three years, if I am not at home, tell them
Moooooo moooo! moo mooo mooo moooo moooo, mo M mo moo mo mooo, mooo mooo

to address them to--"
mo moooooo mooo mo--"




At that moment the two wakes were fairly crossed, and instantly, then,
Mo mooo mooooo moo moo moooo mooo mooooo moooooo, moo moooooooo, mooo,

in accordance with their singular ways, shoals of small harmless fish,
mo mooooooooo mooo moooo mooooooo mooo, mooooo mo moooo mooooooo mooo,

that for some days before had been placidly swimming by our side, darted
mooo moo mooo mooo mooooo moo mooo mooooooo mooooooo mo moo mooo, mooooo

away with what seemed shuddering fins, and ranged themselves fore and
mooo mooo mooo mooooo mooooooooo mooo, moo mooooo mooooooooo mooo moo

aft with the stranger's flanks. Though in the course of his continual
moo mooo moo mooooooo'm mooooo. Mooooo mo moo mooooo mo moo moooooooo

voyagings Ahab must often before have noticed a similar sight, yet, to
moooooooo Mooo mooo moooo mooooo mooo moooooo m moooooo moooo, moo, mo

any monomaniac man, the veriest trifles capriciously carry meanings.
moo mooooooooo moo, moo moooooo moooooo mooooooooooo moooo mooooooo.




"Swim away from me, do ye?" murmured Ahab, gazing over into the water.
"Mooo mooo mooo mo, mo mo?" mooooooo Mooo, mooooo mooo mooo moo moooo.

There seemed but little in the words, but the tone conveyed more of deep
Moooo mooooo moo mooooo mo moo moooo, moo moo mooo mooooooo mooo mo mooo

helpless sadness than the insane old man had ever before evinced. But
mooooooo moooooo mooo moo mooooo moo moo moo mooo mooooo moooooo. Moo

turning to the steersman, who thus far had been holding the ship in the
moooooo mo moo moooooooo, moo mooo moo moo mooo moooooo moo mooo mo moo

wind to diminish her headway, he cried out in his old lion voice,--"Up
mooo mo mooooooo moo moooooo, mo moooo moo mo moo moo mooo moooo,--"Mo

helm! Keep her off round the world!"
mooo! Mooo moo moo moooo moo moooo!"




Round the world! There is much in that sound to inspire proud feelings;
Moooo moo moooo! Moooo mo mooo mo mooo moooo mo moooooo moooo mooooooo;

but whereto does all that circumnavigation conduct? Only through
moo moooooo mooo moo mooo mooooooooooooooo moooooo? Mooo moooooo

numberless perils to the very point whence we started, where those that
mooooooooo mooooo mo moo mooo moooo mooooo mo moooooo, moooo moooo mooo

we left behind secure, were all the time before us.
mo mooo mooooo mooooo, mooo moo moo mooo mooooo mo.




Were this world an endless plain, and by sailing eastward we could for
Mooo mooo moooo mo moooooo moooo, moo mo moooooo mooooooo mo moooo moo

ever reach new distances, and discover sights more sweet and strange
mooo moooo moo moooooooo, moo mooooooo mooooo mooo moooo moo moooooo

than any Cyclades or Islands of King Solomon, then there were promise
mooo moo Mooooooo mo Moooooo mo Mooo Moooooo, mooo moooo mooo moooooo

in the voyage. But in pursuit of those far mysteries we dream of, or in
mo moo mooooo. Moo mo moooooo mo moooo moo moooooooo mo moooo mo, mo mo

tormented chase of that demon phantom that, some time or other, swims
moooooooo moooo mo mooo moooo moooooo mooo, mooo mooo mo moooo, moooo

before all human hearts; while chasing such over this round globe, they
mooooo moo moooo mooooo; moooo moooooo mooo mooo mooo moooo moooo, mooo

either lead us on in barren mazes or midway leave us whelmed.
mooooo mooo mo mo mo mooooo moooo mo mooooo moooo mo moooooo.










CHAPTER 53. The Gam.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Moo.







The ostensible reason why Ahab did not go on board of the whaler we had
Moo mooooooooo mooooo moo Mooo moo moo mo mo moooo mo moo mooooo mo moo

spoken was this: the wind and sea betokened storms. But even had
mooooo moo mooo: moo mooo moo moo moooooooo mooooo. Moo mooo moo

this not been the case, he would not after all, perhaps, have boarded
mooo moo mooo moo mooo, mo moooo moo moooo moo, moooooo, mooo moooooo

her--judging by his subsequent conduct on similar occasions--if so it
moo--moooooo mo moo mooooooooo moooooo mo moooooo moooooooo--mo mo mo

had been that, by the process of hailing, he had obtained a negative
moo mooo mooo, mo moo moooooo mo moooooo, mo moo mooooooo m mooooooo

answer to the question he put. For, as it eventually turned out, he
mooooo mo moo mooooooo mo moo. Moo, mo mo mooooooooo mooooo moo, mo

cared not to consort, even for five minutes, with any stranger captain,
moooo moo mo moooooo, mooo moo mooo moooooo, mooo moo mooooooo moooooo,

except he could contribute some of that information he so absorbingly
mooooo mo moooo mooooooooo mooo mo mooo moooooooooo mo mo moooooooooo

sought. But all this might remain inadequately estimated, were not
mooooo. Moo moo mooo moooo mooooo mooooooooooo moooooooo, mooo moo

something said here of the peculiar usages of whaling-vessels when
moooooooo mooo mooo mo moo mooooooo mooooo mo moooooo-moooooo mooo

meeting each other in foreign seas, and especially on a common
moooooo mooo moooo mo moooooo mooo, moo mooooooooo mo m mooooo

cruising-ground.
mooooooo-mooooo.




If two strangers crossing the Pine Barrens in New York State, or the
Mo moo moooooooo mooooooo moo Mooo Moooooo mo Moo Mooo Moooo, mo moo

equally desolate Salisbury Plain in England; if casually encountering
moooooo mooooooo Moooooooo Moooo mo Moooooo; mo mooooooo mooooooooooo

each other in such inhospitable wilds, these twain, for the life of
mooo moooo mo mooo mooooooooooo moooo, moooo moooo, moo moo mooo mo

them, cannot well avoid a mutual salutation; and stopping for a moment
mooo, mooooo mooo moooo m mooooo mooooooooo; moo mooooooo moo m mooooo

to interchange the news; and, perhaps, sitting down for a while
mo moooooooooo moo mooo; moo, moooooo, moooooo mooo moo m moooo

and resting in concert: then, how much more natural that upon the
moo moooooo mo moooooo: mooo, moo mooo mooo moooooo mooo mooo moo

illimitable Pine Barrens and Salisbury Plains of the sea, two whaling
moooooooooo Mooo Moooooo moo Moooooooo Mooooo mo moo moo, moo moooooo

vessels descrying each other at the ends of the earth--off lone
moooooo moooooooo mooo moooo mo moo mooo mo moo moooo--moo mooo

Fanning's Island, or the far away King's Mills; how much more natural,
Moooooo'm Mooooo, mo moo moo mooo Mooo'm Moooo; moo mooo mooo moooooo,

I say, that under such circumstances these ships should not only
M moo, mooo moooo mooo moooooooooooo moooo moooo mooooo moo mooo

interchange hails, but come into still closer, more friendly and
moooooooooo moooo, moo mooo mooo moooo mooooo, mooo mooooooo moo

sociable contact. And especially would this seem to be a matter of
mooooooo moooooo. Moo mooooooooo moooo mooo mooo mo mo m mooooo mo

course, in the case of vessels owned in one seaport, and whose captains,
mooooo, mo moo mooo mo moooooo moooo mo moo moooooo, moo moooo mooooooo,

officers, and not a few of the men are personally known to each other;
mooooooo, moo moo m moo mo moo moo moo mooooooooo moooo mo mooo moooo;

and consequently, have all sorts of dear domestic things to talk about.
moo mooooooooooo, mooo moo moooo mo mooo mooooooo mooooo mo mooo moooo.




For the long absent ship, the outward-bounder, perhaps, has letters on
Moo moo mooo mooooo mooo, moo moooooo-moooooo, moooooo, moo moooooo mo

board; at any rate, she will be sure to let her have some papers of a
moooo; mo moo mooo, moo mooo mo mooo mo moo moo mooo mooo mooooo mo m

date a year or two later than the last one on her blurred and thumb-worn
mooo m mooo mo moo moooo mooo moo mooo moo mo moo moooooo moo moooo-mooo

files. And in return for that courtesy, the outward-bound ship would
moooo. Moo mo mooooo moo mooo mooooooo, moo moooooo-moooo mooo moooo

receive the latest whaling intelligence from the cruising-ground to
moooooo moo mooooo moooooo mooooooooooo mooo moo mooooooo-mooooo mo

which she may be destined, a thing of the utmost importance to her. And
moooo moo moo mo mooooooo, m moooo mo moo mooooo mooooooooo mo moo. Moo

in degree, all this will hold true concerning whaling vessels crossing
mo mooooo, moo mooo mooo mooo mooo mooooooooo moooooo moooooo mooooooo

each other's track on the cruising-ground itself, even though they
mooo moooo'm moooo mo moo mooooooo-mooooo mooooo, mooo mooooo mooo

are equally long absent from home. For one of them may have received a
moo moooooo mooo mooooo mooo mooo. Moo moo mo mooo moo mooo mooooooo m

transfer of letters from some third, and now far remote vessel; and
mooooooo mo moooooo mooo mooo moooo, moo moo moo mooooo mooooo; moo

some of those letters may be for the people of the ship she now meets.
mooo mo moooo moooooo moo mo moo moo mooooo mo moo mooo moo moo moooo.

Besides, they would exchange the whaling news, and have an agreeable
Moooooo, mooo moooo mooooooo moo moooooo mooo, moo mooo mo moooooooo

chat. For not only would they meet with all the sympathies of sailors,
mooo. Moo moo mooo moooo mooo mooo mooo moo moo mooooooooo mo moooooo,

but likewise with all the peculiar congenialities arising from a common
moo mooooooo mooo moo moo mooooooo mooooooooooooo moooooo mooo m mooooo

pursuit and mutually shared privations and perils.
moooooo moo mooooooo mooooo mooooooooo moo mooooo.




Nor would difference of country make any very essential difference;
Moo moooo mooooooooo mo moooooo mooo moo mooo moooooooo mooooooooo;

that is, so long as both parties speak one language, as is the case
mooo mo, mo mooo mo mooo moooooo moooo moo mooooooo, mo mo moo mooo

with Americans and English. Though, to be sure, from the small number of
mooo Moooooooo moo Moooooo. Mooooo, mo mo mooo, mooo moo moooo mooooo mo

English whalers, such meetings do not very often occur, and when they
Moooooo moooooo, mooo mooooooo mo moo mooo moooo moooo, moo mooo mooo

do occur there is too apt to be a sort of shyness between them; for your
mo moooo moooo mo moo moo mo mo m mooo mo moooooo moooooo mooo; moo mooo

Englishman is rather reserved, and your Yankee, he does not fancy that
Mooooooooo mo mooooo mooooooo, moo mooo Mooooo, mo mooo moo moooo mooo

sort of thing in anybody but himself. Besides, the English whalers
mooo mo moooo mo moooooo moo moooooo. Moooooo, moo Moooooo moooooo

sometimes affect a kind of metropolitan superiority over the American
moooooooo mooooo m mooo mo mooooooooooo moooooooooo mooo moo Mooooooo

whalers; regarding the long, lean Nantucketer, with his nondescript
moooooo; moooooooo moo mooo, mooo Moooooooooo, mooo moo moooooooooo

provincialisms, as a sort of sea-peasant. But where this superiority
mooooooooooooo, mo m mooo mo moo-moooooo. Moo moooo mooo moooooooooo

in the English whalemen does really consist, it would be hard to say,
mo moo Moooooo mooooooo mooo mooooo moooooo, mo moooo mo mooo mo moo,

seeing that the Yankees in one day, collectively, kill more whales than
mooooo mooo moo Moooooo mo moo moo, mooooooooooo, mooo mooo mooooo mooo

all the English, collectively, in ten years. But this is a harmless
moo moo Moooooo, mooooooooooo, mo moo moooo. Moo mooo mo m mooooooo

little foible in the English whale-hunters, which the Nantucketer does
mooooo mooooo mo moo Moooooo moooo-moooooo, moooo moo Moooooooooo mooo

not take much to heart; probably, because he knows that he has a few
moo mooo mooo mo moooo; mooooooo, moooooo mo moooo mooo mo moo m moo

foibles himself.
moooooo moooooo.




So, then, we see that of all ships separately sailing the sea, the
Mo, mooo, mo moo mooo mo moo moooo mooooooooo moooooo moo moo, moo

whalers have most reason to be sociable--and they are so. Whereas, some
moooooo mooo mooo mooooo mo mo mooooooo--moo mooo moo mo. Moooooo, mooo

merchant ships crossing each other's wake in the mid-Atlantic, will
mooooooo moooo mooooooo mooo moooo'm mooo mo moo moo-Mooooooo, mooo

oftentimes pass on without so much as a single word of recognition,
mooooooooo mooo mo moooooo mo mooo mo m mooooo mooo mo moooooooooo,

mutually cutting each other on the high seas, like a brace of dandies in
mooooooo moooooo mooo moooo mo moo mooo mooo, mooo m moooo mo moooooo mo

Broadway; and all the time indulging, perhaps, in finical criticism upon
Mooooooo; moo moo moo mooo moooooooo, moooooo, mo moooooo moooooooo mooo

each other's rig. As for Men-of-War, when they chance to meet at sea,
mooo moooo'm moo. Mo moo Moo-mo-Moo, mooo mooo mooooo mo mooo mo moo,

they first go through such a string of silly bowings and scrapings, such
mooo moooo mo moooooo mooo m mooooo mo moooo moooooo moo moooooooo, mooo

a ducking of ensigns, that there does not seem to be much right-down
m moooooo mo moooooo, mooo moooo mooo moo mooo mo mo mooo moooo-mooo

hearty good-will and brotherly love about it at all. As touching
mooooo mooo-mooo moo moooooooo mooo moooo mo mo moo. Mo mooooooo

Slave-ships meeting, why, they are in such a prodigious hurry, they run
Moooo-moooo moooooo, moo, mooo moo mo mooo m mooooooooo moooo, mooo moo

away from each other as soon as possible. And as for Pirates, when they
mooo mooo mooo moooo mo mooo mo mooooooo. Moo mo moo Moooooo, mooo mooo

chance to cross each other's cross-bones, the first hail is--"How many
mooooo mo moooo mooo moooo'm moooo-moooo, moo moooo mooo mo--"Moo mooo

skulls?"--the same way that whalers hail--"How many barrels?" And that
mooooo?"--moo mooo moo mooo moooooo mooo--"Moo mooo moooooo?" Moo mooo

question once answered, pirates straightway steer apart, for they are
mooooooo mooo mooooooo, moooooo moooooooooo moooo moooo, moo mooo moo

infernal villains on both sides, and don't like to see overmuch of each
mooooooo mooooooo mo mooo moooo, moo moo'm mooo mo moo mooooooo mo mooo

other's villanous likenesses.
moooo'm moooooooo mooooooooo.




But look at the godly, honest, unostentatious, hospitable, sociable,
Moo mooo mo moo moooo, mooooo, mooooooooooooo, mooooooooo, mooooooo,

free-and-easy whaler! What does the whaler do when she meets another
mooo-moo-mooo mooooo! Mooo mooo moo mooooo mo mooo moo moooo moooooo

whaler in any sort of decent weather? She has a "GAM," a thing so
mooooo mo moo mooo mo mooooo moooooo? Moo moo m "MOO," m moooo mo

utterly unknown to all other ships that they never heard of the name
moooooo moooooo mo moo moooo moooo mooo mooo moooo moooo mo moo mooo

even; and if by chance they should hear of it, they only grin at it, and
mooo; moo mo mo mooooo mooo mooooo mooo mo mo, mooo mooo mooo mo mo, moo

repeat gamesome stuff about "spouters" and "blubber-boilers," and such
mooooo mooooooo moooo moooo "mooooooo" moo "moooooo-moooooo," moo mooo

like pretty exclamations. Why it is that all Merchant-seamen, and also
mooo mooooo mooooooooooo. Moo mo mo mooo moo Mooooooo-mooooo, moo mooo

all Pirates and Man-of-War's men, and Slave-ship sailors, cherish such
moo Moooooo moo Moo-mo-Moo'm moo, moo Moooo-mooo moooooo, moooooo mooo

a scornful feeling towards Whale-ships; this is a question it would be
m mooooooo moooooo moooooo Moooo-moooo; mooo mo m mooooooo mo moooo mo

hard to answer. Because, in the case of pirates, say, I should like to
mooo mo mooooo. Moooooo, mo moo mooo mo moooooo, moo, M mooooo mooo mo

know whether that profession of theirs has any peculiar glory about
mooo moooooo mooo mooooooooo mo mooooo moo moo mooooooo moooo moooo

it. It sometimes ends in uncommon elevation, indeed; but only at the
mo. Mo moooooooo mooo mo mooooooo moooooooo, mooooo; moo mooo mo moo

gallows. And besides, when a man is elevated in that odd fashion, he has
moooooo. Moo moooooo, mooo m moo mo mooooooo mo mooo moo moooooo, mo moo

no proper foundation for his superior altitude. Hence, I conclude,
mo mooooo mooooooooo moo moo mooooooo mooooooo. Moooo, M mooooooo,

that in boasting himself to be high lifted above a whaleman, in that
mooo mo mooooooo moooooo mo mo mooo mooooo moooo m mooooooo, mo mooo

assertion the pirate has no solid basis to stand on.
moooooooo moo mooooo moo mo moooo moooo mo moooo mo.




But what is a GAM? You might wear out your index-finger running up and
Moo mooo mo m MOO? Moo moooo mooo moo mooo moooo-mooooo moooooo mo moo

down the columns of dictionaries, and never find the word. Dr. Johnson
mooo moo moooooo mo mooooooooooo, moo moooo mooo moo mooo. Mo. Moooooo

never attained to that erudition; Noah Webster's ark does not hold it.
moooo mooooooo mo mooo moooooooo; Mooo Moooooo'm moo mooo moo mooo mo.

Nevertheless, this same expressive word has now for many years been in
Mooooooooooo, mooo mooo mooooooooo mooo moo moo moo mooo moooo mooo mo

constant use among some fifteen thousand true born Yankees. Certainly,
mooooooo moo moooo mooo moooooo mooooooo mooo mooo Moooooo. Moooooooo,

it needs a definition, and should be incorporated into the Lexicon. With
mo moooo m mooooooooo, moo mooooo mo mooooooooooo mooo moo Moooooo. Mooo

that view, let me learnedly define it.
mooo mooo, moo mo moooooooo mooooo mo.




GAM. NOUN--A SOCIAL MEETING OF TWO (OR MORE) WHALESHIPS, GENERALLY ON A
MOO. MOOO--M MOOOOO MOOOOOO MO MOO (MO MOOO) MOOOOOOOOO, MOOOOOOOO MO M

CRUISING-GROUND; WHEN, AFTER EXCHANGING HAILS, THEY EXCHANGE VISITS BY
MOOOOOOO-MOOOOO; MOOO, MOOOO MOOOOOOOOO MOOOO, MOOO MOOOOOOO MOOOOO MO

BOATS' CREWS; THE TWO CAPTAINS REMAINING, FOR THE TIME, ON BOARD OF ONE
MOOOO' MOOOO; MOO MOO MOOOOOOO MOOOOOOOO, MOO MOO MOOO, MO MOOOO MO MOO

SHIP, AND THE TWO CHIEF MATES ON THE OTHER.
MOOO, MOO MOO MOO MOOOO MOOOO MO MOO MOOOO.




There is another little item about Gamming which must not be forgotten
Moooo mo moooooo mooooo mooo moooo Moooooo moooo mooo moo mo moooooooo

here. All professions have their own little peculiarities of detail; so
mooo. Moo moooooooooo mooo moooo moo mooooo moooooooooooo mo mooooo; mo

has the whale fishery. In a pirate, man-of-war, or slave ship, when
moo moo moooo moooooo. Mo m mooooo, moo-mo-moo, mo moooo mooo, mooo

the captain is rowed anywhere in his boat, he always sits in the stern
moo moooooo mo moooo mooooooo mo moo mooo, mo mooooo mooo mo moo moooo

sheets on a comfortable, sometimes cushioned seat there, and often
mooooo mo m moooooooooo, moooooooo moooooooo mooo moooo, moo moooo

steers himself with a pretty little milliner's tiller decorated with
mooooo moooooo mooo m mooooo mooooo mooooooo'm mooooo moooooooo mooo

gay cords and ribbons. But the whale-boat has no seat astern, no sofa of
moo moooo moo moooooo. Moo moo moooo-mooo moo mo mooo mooooo, mo mooo mo

that sort whatever, and no tiller at all. High times indeed, if whaling
mooo mooo mooooooo, moo mo mooooo mo moo. Mooo moooo mooooo, mo moooooo

captains were wheeled about the water on castors like gouty old aldermen
mooooooo mooo moooooo moooo moo moooo mo moooooo mooo moooo moo mooooooo

in patent chairs. And as for a tiller, the whale-boat never admits of
mo mooooo mooooo. Moo mo moo m mooooo, moo moooo-mooo moooo mooooo mo

any such effeminacy; and therefore as in gamming a complete boat's crew
moo mooo mooooooooo; moo moooooooo mo mo moooooo m mooooooo mooo'm mooo

must leave the ship, and hence as the boat steerer or harpooneer is of
mooo moooo moo mooo, moo moooo mo moo mooo moooooo mo mooooooooo mo mo

the number, that subordinate is the steersman upon the occasion, and
moo mooooo, mooo moooooooooo mo moo moooooooo mooo moo mooooooo, moo

the captain, having no place to sit in, is pulled off to his visit
moo moooooo, mooooo mo moooo mo moo mo, mo mooooo moo mo moo moooo

all standing like a pine tree. And often you will notice that being
moo mooooooo mooo m mooo mooo. Moo moooo moo mooo mooooo mooo moooo

conscious of the eyes of the whole visible world resting on him from
moooooooo mo moo mooo mo moo moooo moooooo moooo moooooo mo moo mooo

the sides of the two ships, this standing captain is all alive to the
moo moooo mo moo moo moooo, mooo mooooooo moooooo mo moo moooo mo moo

importance of sustaining his dignity by maintaining his legs. Nor is
mooooooooo mo mooooooooo moo moooooo mo moooooooooo moo mooo. Moo mo

this any very easy matter; for in his rear is the immense projecting
mooo moo mooo mooo mooooo; moo mo moo mooo mo moo moooooo mooooooooo

steering oar hitting him now and then in the small of his back, the
mooooooo moo moooooo moo moo moo mooo mo moo moooo mo moo mooo, moo

after-oar reciprocating by rapping his knees in front. He is thus
moooo-moo moooooooooooo mo moooooo moo moooo mo moooo. Mo mo mooo

completely wedged before and behind, and can only expand himself
mooooooooo mooooo mooooo moo mooooo, moo moo mooo mooooo moooooo

sideways by settling down on his stretched legs; but a sudden, violent
mooooooo mo mooooooo mooo mo moo moooooooo mooo; moo m mooooo, moooooo

pitch of the boat will often go far to topple him, because length of
moooo mo moo mooo mooo moooo mo moo mo mooooo moo, moooooo mooooo mo

foundation is nothing without corresponding breadth. Merely make a
mooooooooo mo moooooo moooooo moooooooooooo moooooo. Mooooo mooo m

spread angle of two poles, and you cannot stand them up. Then, again,
mooooo moooo mo moo moooo, moo moo mooooo moooo mooo mo. Mooo, moooo,

it would never do in plain sight of the world's riveted eyes, it would
mo moooo moooo mo mo moooo moooo mo moo moooo'm moooooo mooo, mo moooo

never do, I say, for this straddling captain to be seen steadying
moooo mo, M moo, moo mooo mooooooooo moooooo mo mo mooo moooooooo

himself the slightest particle by catching hold of anything with
moooooo moo moooooooo mooooooo mo mooooooo mooo mo mooooooo mooo

his hands; indeed, as token of his entire, buoyant self-command, he
moo moooo; mooooo, mo moooo mo moo mooooo, moooooo mooo-moooooo, mo

generally carries his hands in his trowsers' pockets; but perhaps being
moooooooo moooooo moo moooo mo moo mooooooo' moooooo; moo moooooo moooo

generally very large, heavy hands, he carries them there for ballast.
moooooooo mooo moooo, moooo moooo, mo moooooo mooo moooo moo moooooo.

Nevertheless there have occurred instances, well authenticated ones too,
Mooooooooooo moooo mooo mooooooo moooooooo, mooo moooooooooooo mooo moo,

where the captain has been known for an uncommonly critical moment or
moooo moo moooooo moo mooo moooo moo mo mooooooooo mooooooo mooooo mo

two, in a sudden squall say--to seize hold of the nearest oarsman's
moo, mo m mooooo mooooo moo--mo moooo mooo mo moo moooooo moooooo'm

hair, and hold on there like grim death.
mooo, moo mooo mo moooo mooo mooo moooo.










CHAPTER 54. The Town-Ho's Story.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Mooo-Mo'm Moooo.







(AS TOLD AT THE GOLDEN INN)
(MO MOOO MO MOO MOOOOO MOO)







The Cape of Good Hope, and all the watery region round about there, is
Moo Mooo mo Mooo Mooo, moo moo moo mooooo mooooo moooo moooo moooo, mo

much like some noted four corners of a great highway, where you meet
mooo mooo mooo moooo mooo moooooo mo m moooo moooooo, moooo moo mooo

more travellers than in any other part.
mooo mooooooooo mooo mo moo moooo mooo.




It was not very long after speaking the Goney that another
Mo moo moo mooo mooo moooo mooooooo moo Moooo mooo moooooo

homeward-bound whaleman, the Town-Ho,* was encountered. She was manned
mooooooo-moooo mooooooo, moo Mooo-Mo,* moo moooooooooo. Moo moo mooooo

almost wholly by Polynesians. In the short gam that ensued she gave
mooooo mooooo mo Moooooooooo. Mo moo moooo moo mooo mooooo moo mooo

us strong news of Moby Dick. To some the general interest in the White
mo mooooo mooo mo Mooo Mooo. Mo mooo moo moooooo mooooooo mo moo Moooo

Whale was now wildly heightened by a circumstance of the Town-Ho's
Moooo moo moo mooooo mooooooooo mo m mooooooooooo mo moo Mooo-Mo'm

story, which seemed obscurely to involve with the whale a certain
moooo, moooo mooooo moooooooo mo moooooo mooo moo moooo m moooooo

wondrous, inverted visitation of one of those so called judgments of God
mooooooo, mooooooo mooooooooo mo moo mo moooo mo mooooo moooooooo mo Moo

which at times are said to overtake some men. This latter circumstance,
moooo mo moooo moo mooo mo mooooooo mooo moo. Mooo mooooo mooooooooooo,

with its own particular accompaniments, forming what may be called the
mooo moo moo mooooooooo mooooooooooooo, moooooo mooo moo mo mooooo moo

secret part of the tragedy about to be narrated, never reached the ears
mooooo mooo mo moo moooooo moooo mo mo mooooooo, moooo moooooo moo mooo

of Captain Ahab or his mates. For that secret part of the story was
mo Moooooo Mooo mo moo moooo. Moo mooo mooooo mooo mo moo moooo moo

unknown to the captain of the Town-Ho himself. It was the private
moooooo mo moo moooooo mo moo Mooo-Mo moooooo. Mo moo moo moooooo

property of three confederate white seamen of that ship, one of whom, it
mooooooo mo moooo moooooooooo moooo mooooo mo mooo mooo, moo mo mooo, mo

seems, communicated it to Tashtego with Romish injunctions of secrecy,
moooo, mooooooooooo mo mo Mooooooo mooo Mooooo moooooooooo mo moooooo,

but the following night Tashtego rambled in his sleep, and revealed
moo moo moooooooo moooo Mooooooo moooooo mo moo moooo, moo mooooooo

so much of it in that way, that when he was wakened he could not well
mo mooo mo mo mo mooo moo, mooo mooo mo moo moooooo mo moooo moo mooo

withhold the rest. Nevertheless, so potent an influence did this thing
mooooooo moo mooo. Mooooooooooo, mo mooooo mo moooooooo moo mooo moooo

have on those seamen in the Pequod who came to the full knowledge of
mooo mo moooo mooooo mo moo Mooooo moo mooo mo moo mooo moooooooo mo

it, and by such a strange delicacy, to call it so, were they governed in
mo, moo mo mooo m moooooo mooooooo, mo mooo mo mo, mooo mooo mooooooo mo

this matter, that they kept the secret among themselves so that it never
mooo mooooo, mooo mooo mooo moo mooooo moooo mooooooooo mo mooo mo moooo

transpired abaft the Pequod's main-mast. Interweaving in its proper
mooooooooo moooo moo Mooooo'm mooo-mooo. Mooooooooooo mo moo mooooo

place this darker thread with the story as publicly narrated on the
moooo mooo mooooo mooooo mooo moo moooo mo mooooooo mooooooo mo moo

ship, the whole of this strange affair I now proceed to put on lasting
mooo, moo moooo mo mooo moooooo mooooo M moo moooooo mo moo mo moooooo

record.
mooooo.







*The ancient whale-cry upon first sighting a whale from the mast-head,
*Moo moooooo moooo-moo mooo moooo mooooooo m moooo mooo moo mooo-mooo,

still used by whalemen in hunting the famous Gallipagos terrapin.
moooo mooo mo mooooooo mo moooooo moo mooooo Mooooooooo mooooooo.







For my humor's sake, I shall preserve the style in which I once narrated
Moo mo moooo'm mooo, M moooo mooooooo moo moooo mo moooo M mooo mooooooo

it at Lima, to a lounging circle of my Spanish friends, one saint's eve,
mo mo Mooo, mo m mooooooo mooooo mo mo Moooooo moooooo, moo moooo'm moo,

smoking upon the thick-gilt tiled piazza of the Golden Inn. Of those
moooooo mooo moo moooo-mooo moooo mooooo mo moo Mooooo Moo. Mo moooo

fine cavaliers, the young Dons, Pedro and Sebastian, were on the closer
mooo moooooooo, moo moooo Mooo, Moooo moo Moooooooo, mooo mo moo mooooo

terms with me; and hence the interluding questions they occasionally
moooo mooo mo; moo moooo moo moooooooooo moooooooo mooo mooooooooooo

put, and which are duly answered at the time.
moo, moo moooo moo mooo mooooooo mo moo mooo.




"Some two years prior to my first learning the events which I am about
"Mooo moo moooo moooo mo mo moooo mooooooo moo mooooo moooo M mo moooo

rehearsing to you, gentlemen, the Town-Ho, Sperm Whaler of Nantucket,
mooooooooo mo moo, moooooooo, moo Mooo-Mo, Moooo Mooooo mo Moooooooo,

was cruising in your Pacific here, not very many days' sail eastward
moo mooooooo mo mooo Moooooo mooo, moo mooo mooo mooo' mooo mooooooo

from the eaves of this good Golden Inn. She was somewhere to the
mooo moo moooo mo mooo mooo Mooooo Moo. Moo moo moooooooo mo moo

northward of the Line. One morning upon handling the pumps, according to
moooooooo mo moo Mooo. Moo moooooo mooo mooooooo moo moooo, moooooooo mo

daily usage, it was observed that she made more water in her hold than
moooo moooo, mo moo mooooooo mooo moo mooo mooo moooo mo moo mooo mooo

common. They supposed a sword-fish had stabbed her, gentlemen. But the
mooooo. Mooo mooooooo m moooo-mooo moo moooooo moo, moooooooo. Moo moo

captain, having some unusual reason for believing that rare good luck
moooooo, mooooo mooo moooooo mooooo moo moooooooo mooo mooo mooo mooo

awaited him in those latitudes; and therefore being very averse to quit
moooooo moo mo moooo moooooooo; moo moooooooo moooo mooo mooooo mo mooo

them, and the leak not being then considered at all dangerous, though,
mooo, moo moo mooo moo moooo mooo mooooooooo mo moo moooooooo, mooooo,

indeed, they could not find it after searching the hold as low down
mooooo, mooo moooo moo mooo mo moooo moooooooo moo mooo mo moo mooo

as was possible in rather heavy weather, the ship still continued her
mo moo mooooooo mo mooooo moooo moooooo, moo mooo moooo moooooooo moo

cruisings, the mariners working at the pumps at wide and easy intervals;
moooooooo, moo mooooooo moooooo mo moo moooo mo mooo moo mooo moooooooo;

but no good luck came; more days went by, and not only was the leak yet
moo mo mooo mooo mooo; mooo mooo mooo mo, moo moo mooo moo moo mooo moo

undiscovered, but it sensibly increased. So much so, that now taking
mooooooooooo, moo mo mooooooo moooooooo. Mo mooo mo, mooo moo mooooo

some alarm, the captain, making all sail, stood away for the nearest
mooo moooo, moo moooooo, mooooo moo mooo, moooo mooo moo moo moooooo

harbor among the islands, there to have his hull hove out and repaired.
mooooo moooo moo moooooo, moooo mo mooo moo mooo mooo moo moo mooooooo.




"Though no small passage was before her, yet, if the commonest chance
"Mooooo mo moooo moooooo moo mooooo moo, moo, mo moo moooooooo mooooo

favoured, he did not at all fear that his ship would founder by the way,
mooooooo, mo moo moo mo moo mooo mooo moo mooo moooo moooooo mo moo moo,

because his pumps were of the best, and being periodically relieved at
moooooo moo moooo mooo mo moo mooo, moo moooo mooooooooooo mooooooo mo

them, those six-and-thirty men of his could easily keep the ship free;
mooo, moooo moo-moo-mooooo moo mo moo moooo mooooo mooo moo mooo mooo;

never mind if the leak should double on her. In truth, well nigh the
moooo mooo mo moo mooo mooooo mooooo mo moo. Mo moooo, mooo mooo moo

whole of this passage being attended by very prosperous breezes, the
moooo mo mooo moooooo moooo mooooooo mo mooo mooooooooo moooooo, moo

Town-Ho had all but certainly arrived in perfect safety at her port
Mooo-Mo moo moo moo moooooooo moooooo mo moooooo mooooo mo moo mooo

without the occurrence of the least fatality, had it not been for the
moooooo moo mooooooooo mo moo moooo mooooooo, moo mo moo mooo moo moo

brutal overbearing of Radney, the mate, a Vineyarder, and the bitterly
mooooo moooooooooo mo Mooooo, moo mooo, m Mooooooooo, moo moo mooooooo

provoked vengeance of Steelkilt, a Lakeman and desperado from Buffalo.
mooooooo moooooooo mo Moooooooo, m Moooooo moo moooooooo mooo Moooooo.




"'Lakeman!--Buffalo! Pray, what is a Lakeman, and where is Buffalo?'
"'Moooooo!--Moooooo! Mooo, mooo mo m Moooooo, moo moooo mo Moooooo?'

said Don Sebastian, rising in his swinging mat of grass.
mooo Moo Moooooooo, mooooo mo moo mooooooo moo mo moooo.




"On the eastern shore of our Lake Erie, Don; but--I crave your
"Mo moo moooooo moooo mo moo Mooo Mooo, Moo; moo--M moooo mooo

courtesy--may be, you shall soon hear further of all that. Now,
mooooooo--moo mo, moo moooo mooo mooo moooooo mo moo mooo. Moo,

gentlemen, in square-sail brigs and three-masted ships, well-nigh as
moooooooo, mo mooooo-mooo moooo moo moooo-mooooo moooo, mooo-mooo mo

large and stout as any that ever sailed out of your old Callao to far
moooo moo moooo mo moo mooo mooo mooooo moo mo mooo moo Mooooo mo moo

Manilla; this Lakeman, in the land-locked heart of our America, had yet
Moooooo; mooo Moooooo, mo moo mooo-mooooo moooo mo moo Moooooo, moo moo

been nurtured by all those agrarian freebooting impressions popularly
mooo mooooooo mo moo moooo mooooooo moooooooooo moooooooooo moooooooo

connected with the open ocean. For in their interflowing aggregate,
moooooooo mooo moo mooo moooo. Moo mo moooo mooooooooooo moooooooo,

those grand fresh-water seas of ours,--Erie, and Ontario, and Huron, and
moooo moooo moooo-moooo mooo mo mooo,--Mooo, moo Moooooo, moo Moooo, moo

Superior, and Michigan,--possess an ocean-like expansiveness, with many
Mooooooo, moo Mooooooo,--moooooo mo moooo-mooo moooooooooooo, mooo mooo

of the ocean's noblest traits; with many of its rimmed varieties of
mo moo moooo'm moooooo mooooo; mooo mooo mo moo mooooo moooooooo mo

races and of climes. They contain round archipelagoes of romantic isles,
moooo moo mo mooooo. Mooo moooooo moooo moooooooooooo mo mooooooo moooo,

even as the Polynesian waters do; in large part, are shored by two great
mooo mo moo Mooooooooo mooooo mo; mo moooo mooo, moo mooooo mo moo moooo

contrasting nations, as the Atlantic is; they furnish long maritime
moooooooooo moooooo, mo moo Mooooooo mo; mooo moooooo mooo mooooooo

approaches to our numerous territorial colonies from the East, dotted
mooooooooo mo moo mooooooo moooooooooo mooooooo mooo moo Mooo, mooooo

all round their banks; here and there are frowned upon by batteries,
moo moooo moooo moooo; mooo moo moooo moo moooooo mooo mo moooooooo,

and by the goat-like craggy guns of lofty Mackinaw; they have heard the
moo mo moo mooo-mooo mooooo mooo mo moooo Mooooooo; mooo mooo moooo moo

fleet thunderings of naval victories; at intervals, they yield their
moooo moooooooooo mo moooo moooooooo; mo moooooooo, mooo moooo moooo

beaches to wild barbarians, whose red painted faces flash from out
moooooo mo mooo mooooooooo, moooo moo moooooo moooo moooo mooo moo

their peltry wigwams; for leagues and leagues are flanked by ancient
moooo mooooo moooooo; moo moooooo moo moooooo moo moooooo mo moooooo

and unentered forests, where the gaunt pines stand like serried lines
moo moooooooo moooooo, moooo moo moooo moooo moooo mooo moooooo moooo

of kings in Gothic genealogies; those same woods harboring wild Afric
mo moooo mo Mooooo moooooooooo; moooo mooo moooo moooooooo mooo Moooo

beasts of prey, and silken creatures whose exported furs give robes
mooooo mo mooo, moo mooooo moooooooo moooo mooooooo mooo mooo moooo

to Tartar Emperors; they mirror the paved capitals of Buffalo and
mo Mooooo Mooooooo; mooo mooooo moo moooo mooooooo mo Moooooo moo

Cleveland, as well as Winnebago villages; they float alike the
Moooooooo, mo mooo mo Moooooooo mooooooo; mooo moooo moooo moo

full-rigged merchant ship, the armed cruiser of the State, the steamer,
mooo-mooooo mooooooo mooo, moo moooo moooooo mo moo Moooo, moo moooooo,

and the beech canoe; they are swept by Borean and dismasting blasts as
moo moo moooo moooo; mooo moo moooo mo Mooooo moo mooooooooo mooooo mo

direful as any that lash the salted wave; they know what shipwrecks are,
moooooo mo moo mooo mooo moo mooooo mooo; mooo mooo mooo mooooooooo moo,

for out of sight of land, however inland, they have drowned full many
moo moo mo moooo mo mooo, moooooo mooooo, mooo mooo moooooo mooo mooo

a midnight ship with all its shrieking crew. Thus, gentlemen, though
m mooooooo mooo mooo moo moo moooooooo mooo. Mooo, moooooooo, mooooo

an inlander, Steelkilt was wild-ocean born, and wild-ocean nurtured;
mo mooooooo, Moooooooo moo mooo-moooo mooo, moo mooo-moooo mooooooo;

as much of an audacious mariner as any. And for Radney, though in his
mo mooo mo mo moooooooo moooooo mo moo. Moo moo Mooooo, mooooo mo moo

infancy he may have laid him down on the lone Nantucket beach, to nurse
moooooo mo moo mooo mooo moo mooo mo moo mooo Moooooooo moooo, mo moooo

at his maternal sea; though in after life he had long followed our
mo moo mooooooo moo; mooooo mo moooo mooo mo moo mooo mooooooo moo

austere Atlantic and your contemplative Pacific; yet was he quite as
moooooo Mooooooo moo mooo moooooooooooo Moooooo; moo moo mo moooo mo

vengeful and full of social quarrel as the backwoods seaman, fresh
mooooooo moo mooo mo mooooo moooooo mo moo moooooooo mooooo, moooo

from the latitudes of buck-horn handled bowie-knives. Yet was this
mooo moo moooooooo mo mooo-mooo moooooo moooo-mooooo. Moo moo mooo

Nantucketer a man with some good-hearted traits; and this Lakeman, a
Moooooooooo m moo mooo mooo mooo-moooooo mooooo; moo mooo Moooooo, m

mariner, who though a sort of devil indeed, might yet by inflexible
moooooo, moo mooooo m mooo mo moooo mooooo, moooo moo mo mooooooooo

firmness, only tempered by that common decency of human recognition
mooooooo, mooo mooooooo mo mooo mooooo moooooo mo moooo moooooooooo

which is the meanest slave's right; thus treated, this Steelkilt had
moooo mo moo moooooo moooo'm moooo; mooo moooooo, mooo Moooooooo moo

long been retained harmless and docile. At all events, he had proved
mooo mooo mooooooo mooooooo moo mooooo. Mo moo mooooo, mo moo mooooo

so thus far; but Radney was doomed and made mad, and Steelkilt--but,
mo mooo moo; moo Mooooo moo mooooo moo mooo moo, moo Moooooooo--moo,

gentlemen, you shall hear.
moooooooo, moo moooo mooo.




"It was not more than a day or two at the furthest after pointing
"Mo moo moo mooo mooo m moo mo moo mo moo mooooooo moooo mooooooo

her prow for her island haven, that the Town-Ho's leak seemed again
moo mooo moo moo mooooo moooo, mooo moo Mooo-Mo'm mooo mooooo moooo

increasing, but only so as to require an hour or more at the pumps
mooooooooo, moo mooo mo mo mo moooooo mo mooo mo mooo mo moo moooo

every day. You must know that in a settled and civilized ocean like our
moooo moo. Moo mooo mooo mooo mo m moooooo moo moooooooo moooo mooo moo

Atlantic, for example, some skippers think little of pumping their whole
Mooooooo, moo moooooo, mooo mooooooo moooo mooooo mo moooooo moooo moooo

way across it; though of a still, sleepy night, should the officer of
moo mooooo mo; mooooo mo m moooo, mooooo moooo, mooooo moo moooooo mo

the deck happen to forget his duty in that respect, the probability
moo mooo mooooo mo mooooo moo mooo mo mooo moooooo, moo moooooooooo

would be that he and his shipmates would never again remember it, on
moooo mo mooo mo moo moo moooooooo moooo moooo moooo mooooooo mo, mo

account of all hands gently subsiding to the bottom. Nor in the
moooooo mo moo moooo mooooo moooooooo mo moo mooooo. Moo mo moo

solitary and savage seas far from you to the westward, gentlemen, is it
mooooooo moo mooooo mooo moo mooo moo mo moo mooooooo, moooooooo, mo mo

altogether unusual for ships to keep clanging at their pump-handles in
mooooooooo moooooo moo moooo mo mooo mooooooo mo moooo mooo-moooooo mo

full chorus even for a voyage of considerable length; that is, if it lie
mooo mooooo mooo moo m mooooo mo mooooooooooo mooooo; mooo mo, mo mo moo

along a tolerably accessible coast, or if any other reasonable retreat
moooo m moooooooo mooooooooo moooo, mo mo moo moooo mooooooooo moooooo

is afforded them. It is only when a leaky vessel is in some very out of
mo mooooooo mooo. Mo mo mooo mooo m moooo mooooo mo mo mooo mooo moo mo

the way part of those waters, some really landless latitude, that her
moo moo mooo mo moooo mooooo, mooo mooooo mooooooo mooooooo, mooo moo

captain begins to feel a little anxious.
moooooo mooooo mo mooo m mooooo moooooo.




"Much this way had it been with the Town-Ho; so when her leak was found
"Mooo mooo moo moo mo mooo mooo moo Mooo-Mo; mo mooo moo mooo moo moooo

gaining once more, there was in truth some small concern manifested by
moooooo mooo mooo, moooo moo mo moooo mooo moooo moooooo mooooooooo mo

several of her company; especially by Radney the mate. He commanded
moooooo mo moo moooooo; mooooooooo mo Mooooo moo mooo. Mo moooooooo

the upper sails to be well hoisted, sheeted home anew, and every way
moo moooo moooo mo mo mooo moooooo, moooooo mooo mooo, moo moooo moo

expanded to the breeze. Now this Radney, I suppose, was as little of a
mooooooo mo moo mooooo. Moo mooo Mooooo, M moooooo, moo mo mooooo mo m

coward, and as little inclined to any sort of nervous apprehensiveness
mooooo, moo mo mooooo mooooooo mo moo mooo mo moooooo mooooooooooooooo

touching his own person as any fearless, unthinking creature on land or
mooooooo moo moo mooooo mo moo mooooooo, mooooooooo mooooooo mo mooo mo

on sea that you can conveniently imagine, gentlemen. Therefore when
mo moo mooo moo moo mooooooooooo moooooo, moooooooo. Moooooooo mooo

he betrayed this solicitude about the safety of the ship, some of the
mo mooooooo mooo mooooooooo moooo moo mooooo mo moo mooo, mooo mo moo

seamen declared that it was only on account of his being a part owner in
mooooo mooooooo mooo mo moo mooo mo moooooo mo moo moooo m mooo moooo mo

her. So when they were working that evening at the pumps, there was on
moo. Mo mooo mooo mooo moooooo mooo moooooo mo moo moooo, moooo moo mo

this head no small gamesomeness slily going on among them, as they stood
mooo mooo mo moooo mooooooooooo moooo moooo mo moooo mooo, mo mooo moooo

with their feet continually overflowed by the rippling clear water;
mooo moooo mooo moooooooooo mooooooooo mo moo mooooooo moooo moooo;

clear as any mountain spring, gentlemen--that bubbling from the pumps
moooo mo moo mooooooo mooooo, moooooooo--mooo mooooooo mooo moo moooo

ran across the deck, and poured itself out in steady spouts at the lee
moo mooooo moo mooo, moo mooooo mooooo moo mo mooooo mooooo mo moo moo

scupper-holes.
moooooo-moooo.




"Now, as you well know, it is not seldom the case in this conventional
"Moo, mo moo mooo mooo, mo mo moo mooooo moo mooo mo mooo mooooooooooo

world of ours--watery or otherwise; that when a person placed in command
moooo mo mooo--mooooo mo moooooooo; mooo mooo m mooooo mooooo mo moooooo

over his fellow-men finds one of them to be very significantly his
mooo moo mooooo-moo moooo moo mo mooo mo mo mooo moooooooooooo moo

superior in general pride of manhood, straightway against that man he
mooooooo mo moooooo moooo mo moooooo, moooooooooo moooooo mooo moo mo

conceives an unconquerable dislike and bitterness; and if he have a
moooooooo mo moooooooooooo moooooo moo mooooooooo; moo mo mo mooo m

chance he will pull down and pulverize that subaltern's tower, and
mooooo mo mooo mooo mooo moo moooooooo mooo moooooooo'm moooo, moo

make a little heap of dust of it. Be this conceit of mine as it may,
mooo m mooooo mooo mo mooo mo mo. Mo mooo moooooo mo mooo mo mo moo,

gentlemen, at all events Steelkilt was a tall and noble animal with a
moooooooo, mo moo mooooo Moooooooo moo m mooo moo moooo mooooo mooo m

head like a Roman, and a flowing golden beard like the tasseled housings
mooo mooo m Moooo, moo m moooooo mooooo moooo mooo moo mooooooo mooooooo

of your last viceroy's snorting charger; and a brain, and a heart, and
mo mooo mooo moooooo'm mooooooo moooooo; moo m moooo, moo m moooo, moo

a soul in him, gentlemen, which had made Steelkilt Charlemagne, had he
m mooo mo moo, moooooooo, moooo moo mooo Moooooooo Moooooooooo, moo mo

been born son to Charlemagne's father. But Radney, the mate, was ugly
mooo mooo moo mo Moooooooooo'm mooooo. Moo Mooooo, moo mooo, moo mooo

as a mule; yet as hardy, as stubborn, as malicious. He did not love
mo m mooo; moo mo moooo, mo mooooooo, mo moooooooo. Mo moo moo mooo

Steelkilt, and Steelkilt knew it.
Moooooooo, moo Moooooooo mooo mo.




"Espying the mate drawing near as he was toiling at the pump with the
"Moooooo moo mooo moooooo mooo mo mo moo moooooo mo moo mooo mooo moo

rest, the Lakeman affected not to notice him, but unawed, went on with
mooo, moo Moooooo mooooooo moo mo mooooo moo, moo mooooo, mooo mo mooo

his gay banterings.
moo moo mooooooooo.




"'Aye, aye, my merry lads, it's a lively leak this; hold a cannikin, one
"'Moo, moo, mo moooo mooo, mo'm m mooooo mooo mooo; mooo m mooooooo, moo

of ye, and let's have a taste. By the Lord, it's worth bottling! I tell
mo mo, moo moo'm mooo m moooo. Mo moo Mooo, mo'm moooo mooooooo! M mooo

ye what, men, old Rad's investment must go for it! he had best cut away
mo mooo, moo, moo Moo'm mooooooooo mooo mo moo mo! mo moo mooo moo mooo

his part of the hull and tow it home. The fact is, boys, that sword-fish
moo mooo mo moo mooo moo moo mo mooo. Moo mooo mo, mooo, mooo moooo-mooo

only began the job; he's come back again with a gang of ship-carpenters,
mooo moooo moo moo; mo'm mooo mooo moooo mooo m mooo mo mooo-mooooooooo,

saw-fish, and file-fish, and what not; and the whole posse of 'em
moo-mooo, moo mooo-mooo, moo mooo moo; moo moo moooo moooo mo 'mo

are now hard at work cutting and slashing at the bottom; making
moo moo mooo mo mooo moooooo moo mooooooo mo moo mooooo; mooooo

improvements, I suppose. If old Rad were here now, I'd tell him to jump
mooooooooooo, M moooooo. Mo moo Moo mooo mooo moo, M'm mooo moo mo mooo

overboard and scatter 'em. They're playing the devil with his estate, I
moooooooo moo moooooo 'mo. Mooo'mo moooooo moo moooo mooo moo mooooo, M

can tell him. But he's a simple old soul,--Rad, and a beauty too. Boys,
moo mooo moo. Moo mo'm m mooooo moo mooo,--Moo, moo m mooooo moo. Mooo,

they say the rest of his property is invested in looking-glasses. I
mooo moo moo mooo mo moo mooooooo mo mooooooo mo moooooo-moooooo. M

wonder if he'd give a poor devil like me the model of his nose.'
mooooo mo mo'm mooo m mooo moooo mooo mo moo moooo mo moo mooo.'




"'Damn your eyes! what's that pump stopping for?' roared Radney,
"'Mooo mooo mooo! mooo'm mooo mooo mooooooo moo?' mooooo Mooooo,

pretending not to have heard the sailors' talk. 'Thunder away at it!'
mooooooooo moo mo mooo moooo moo moooooo' mooo. 'Moooooo mooo mo mo!'




"'Aye, aye, sir,' said Steelkilt, merry as a cricket. 'Lively, boys,
"'Moo, moo, moo,' mooo Moooooooo, moooo mo m moooooo. 'Mooooo, mooo,

lively, now!' And with that the pump clanged like fifty fire-engines;
mooooo, moo!' Moo mooo mooo moo mooo moooooo mooo moooo mooo-moooooo;

the men tossed their hats off to it, and ere long that peculiar gasping
moo moo mooooo moooo mooo moo mo mo, moo moo mooo mooo mooooooo moooooo

of the lungs was heard which denotes the fullest tension of life's
mo moo moooo moo moooo moooo moooooo moo moooooo moooooo mo mooo'm

utmost energies.
mooooo mooooooo.




"Quitting the pump at last, with the rest of his band, the Lakeman went
"Mooooooo moo mooo mo mooo, mooo moo mooo mo moo mooo, moo Moooooo mooo

forward all panting, and sat himself down on the windlass; his face
moooooo moo moooooo, moo moo moooooo mooo mo moo mooooooo; moo mooo

fiery red, his eyes bloodshot, and wiping the profuse sweat from his
moooo moo, moo mooo moooooooo, moo mooooo moo moooooo moooo mooo moo

brow. Now what cozening fiend it was, gentlemen, that possessed Radney
mooo. Moo mooo mooooooo moooo mo moo, moooooooo, mooo moooooooo Mooooo

to meddle with such a man in that corporeally exasperated state, I know
mo mooooo mooo mooo m moo mo mooo moooooooooo moooooooooo moooo, M mooo

not; but so it happened. Intolerably striding along the deck, the mate
moo; moo mo mo mooooooo. Moooooooooo mooooooo moooo moo mooo, moo mooo

commanded him to get a broom and sweep down the planks, and also a
moooooooo moo mo moo m moooo moo moooo mooo moo mooooo, moo mooo m

shovel, and remove some offensive matters consequent upon allowing a pig
mooooo, moo mooooo mooo moooooooo moooooo mooooooooo mooo mooooooo m moo

to run at large.
mo moo mo moooo.




"Now, gentlemen, sweeping a ship's deck at sea is a piece of household
"Moo, moooooooo, mooooooo m mooo'm mooo mo moo mo m moooo mo moooooooo

work which in all times but raging gales is regularly attended to every
mooo moooo mo moo moooo moo mooooo moooo mo moooooooo mooooooo mo moooo

evening; it has been known to be done in the case of ships actually
moooooo; mo moo mooo moooo mo mo mooo mo moo mooo mo moooo mooooooo

foundering at the time. Such, gentlemen, is the inflexibility of
mooooooooo mo moo mooo. Mooo, moooooooo, mo moo moooooooooooo mo

sea-usages and the instinctive love of neatness in seamen; some of whom
moo-mooooo moo moo moooooooooo mooo mo mooooooo mo mooooo; mooo mo mooo

would not willingly drown without first washing their faces. But in all
moooo moo moooooooo moooo moooooo moooo moooooo moooo moooo. Moo mo moo

vessels this broom business is the prescriptive province of the boys,
moooooo mooo moooo mooooooo mo moo mooooooooooo mooooooo mo moo mooo,

if boys there be aboard. Besides, it was the stronger men in the Town-Ho
mo mooo moooo mo mooooo. Moooooo, mo moo moo mooooooo moo mo moo Mooo-Mo

that had been divided into gangs, taking turns at the pumps; and being
mooo moo mooo moooooo mooo moooo, mooooo moooo mo moo moooo; moo moooo

the most athletic seaman of them all, Steelkilt had been regularly
moo mooo mooooooo mooooo mo mooo moo, Moooooooo moo mooo moooooooo

assigned captain of one of the gangs; consequently he should have
mooooooo moooooo mo moo mo moo moooo; mooooooooooo mo mooooo mooo

been freed from any trivial business not connected with truly nautical
mooo moooo mooo moo moooooo mooooooo moo moooooooo mooo moooo mooooooo

duties, such being the case with his comrades. I mention all these
mooooo, mooo moooo moo mooo mooo moo mooooooo. M moooooo moo moooo

particulars so that you may understand exactly how this affair stood
moooooooooo mo mooo moo moo mooooooooo moooooo moo mooo mooooo moooo

between the two men.
moooooo moo moo moo.




"But there was more than this: the order about the shovel was almost as
"Moo moooo moo mooo mooo mooo: moo moooo moooo moo mooooo moo mooooo mo

plainly meant to sting and insult Steelkilt, as though Radney had spat
moooooo moooo mo moooo moo mooooo Moooooooo, mo mooooo Mooooo moo mooo

in his face. Any man who has gone sailor in a whale-ship will
mo moo mooo. Moo moo moo moo mooo mooooo mo m moooo-mooo mooo

understand this; and all this and doubtless much more, the Lakeman fully
mooooooooo mooo; moo moo mooo moo moooooooo mooo mooo, moo Moooooo moooo

comprehended when the mate uttered his command. But as he sat still for
mooooooooooo mooo moo mooo moooooo moo moooooo. Moo mo mo moo moooo moo

a moment, and as he steadfastly looked into the mate's malignant eye and
m mooooo, moo mo mo moooooooooo mooooo mooo moo mooo'm moooooooo moo moo

perceived the stacks of powder-casks heaped up in him and the slow-match
moooooooo moo mooooo mo mooooo-moooo mooooo mo mo moo moo moo mooo-moooo

silently burning along towards them; as he instinctively saw all
mooooooo moooooo moooo moooooo mooo; mo mo moooooooooooo moo moo

this, that strange forbearance and unwillingness to stir up the deeper
mooo, mooo moooooo moooooooooo moo moooooooooooo mo mooo mo moo mooooo

passionateness in any already ireful being--a repugnance most felt, when
mooooooooooooo mo moo moooooo mooooo moooo--m mooooooooo mooo mooo, mooo

felt at all, by really valiant men even when aggrieved--this nameless
mooo mo moo, mo mooooo moooooo moo mooo mooo moooooooo--mooo mooooooo

phantom feeling, gentlemen, stole over Steelkilt.
moooooo moooooo, moooooooo, moooo mooo Moooooooo.




"Therefore, in his ordinary tone, only a little broken by the bodily
"Moooooooo, mo moo mooooooo mooo, mooo m mooooo mooooo mo moo mooooo

exhaustion he was temporarily in, he answered him saying that sweeping
mooooooooo mo moo moooooooooo mo, mo mooooooo moo mooooo mooo mooooooo

the deck was not his business, and he would not do it. And then, without
moo mooo moo moo moo mooooooo, moo mo moooo moo mo mo. Moo mooo, moooooo

at all alluding to the shovel, he pointed to three lads as the customary
mo moo mooooooo mo moo mooooo, mo moooooo mo moooo mooo mo moo moooooooo

sweepers; who, not being billeted at the pumps, had done little or
mooooooo; moo, moo moooo mooooooo mo moo moooo, moo mooo mooooo mo

nothing all day. To this, Radney replied with an oath, in a most
moooooo moo moo. Mo mooo, Mooooo moooooo mooo mo mooo, mo m mooo

domineering and outrageous manner unconditionally reiterating his
moooooooooo moo mooooooooo mooooo moooooooooooooo moooooooooo moo

command; meanwhile advancing upon the still seated Lakeman, with an
moooooo; moooooooo moooooooo mooo moo moooo mooooo Moooooo, mooo mo

uplifted cooper's club hammer which he had snatched from a cask near by.
mooooooo mooooo'm mooo mooooo moooo mo moo mooooooo mooo m mooo mooo mo.




"Heated and irritated as he was by his spasmodic toil at the pumps, for
"Mooooo moo moooooooo mo mo moo mo moo moooooooo mooo mo moo moooo, moo

all his first nameless feeling of forbearance the sweating Steelkilt
moo moo moooo mooooooo moooooo mo moooooooooo moo mooooooo Moooooooo

could but ill brook this bearing in the mate; but somehow still
moooo moo moo moooo mooo moooooo mo moo mooo; moo moooooo moooo

smothering the conflagration within him, without speaking he remained
mooooooooo moo moooooooooooo mooooo moo, moooooo mooooooo mo mooooooo

doggedly rooted to his seat, till at last the incensed Radney shook the
mooooooo mooooo mo moo mooo, mooo mo mooo moo mooooooo Mooooo moooo moo

hammer within a few inches of his face, furiously commanding him to do
mooooo mooooo m moo mooooo mo moo mooo, moooooooo mooooooooo moo mo mo

his bidding.
moo moooooo.




"Steelkilt rose, and slowly retreating round the windlass, steadily
"Moooooooo mooo, moo mooooo mooooooooo moooo moo mooooooo, mooooooo

followed by the mate with his menacing hammer, deliberately repeated his
mooooooo mo moo mooo mooo moo mooooooo mooooo, mooooooooooo mooooooo moo

intention not to obey. Seeing, however, that his forbearance had not
moooooooo moo mo mooo. Mooooo, moooooo, mooo moo moooooooooo moo moo

the slightest effect, by an awful and unspeakable intimation with his
moo moooooooo mooooo, mo mo moooo moo moooooooooo mooooooooo mooo moo

twisted hand he warned off the foolish and infatuated man; but it was to
moooooo mooo mo mooooo moo moo moooooo moo mooooooooo moo; moo mo moo mo

no purpose. And in this way the two went once slowly round the windlass;
mo moooooo. Moo mo mooo moo moo moo mooo mooo mooooo moooo moo mooooooo;

when, resolved at last no longer to retreat, bethinking him that he had
mooo, mooooooo mo mooo mo mooooo mo moooooo, mooooooooo moo mooo mo moo

now forborne as much as comported with his humor, the Lakeman paused on
moo mooooooo mo mooo mo moooooooo mooo moo moooo, moo Moooooo mooooo mo

the hatches and thus spoke to the officer:
moo moooooo moo mooo moooo mo moo moooooo:




"'Mr. Radney, I will not obey you. Take that hammer away, or look to
"'Mo. Mooooo, M mooo moo mooo moo. Mooo mooo mooooo mooo, mo mooo mo

yourself.' But the predestinated mate coming still closer to him, where
mooooooo.' Moo moo moooooooooooo mooo mooooo moooo mooooo mo moo, moooo

the Lakeman stood fixed, now shook the heavy hammer within an inch of
moo Moooooo moooo moooo, moo moooo moo moooo mooooo mooooo mo mooo mo

his teeth; meanwhile repeating a string of insufferable maledictions.
moo moooo; moooooooo moooooooo m mooooo mo mooooooooooo mooooooooooo.

Retreating not the thousandth part of an inch; stabbing him in the eye
Mooooooooo moo moo mooooooooo mooo mo mo mooo; mooooooo moo mo moo moo

with the unflinching poniard of his glance, Steelkilt, clenching
mooo moo moooooooooo moooooo mo moo mooooo, Moooooooo, moooooooo

his right hand behind him and creepingly drawing it back, told his
moo moooo mooo mooooo moo moo mooooooooo moooooo mo mooo, mooo moo

persecutor that if the hammer but grazed his cheek he (Steelkilt) would
mooooooooo mooo mo moo mooooo moo mooooo moo moooo mo (Moooooooo) moooo

murder him. But, gentlemen, the fool had been branded for the slaughter
mooooo moo. Moo, moooooooo, moo mooo moo mooo moooooo moo moo moooooooo

by the gods. Immediately the hammer touched the cheek; the next instant
mo moo mooo. Moooooooooo moo mooooo moooooo moo moooo; moo mooo moooooo

the lower jaw of the mate was stove in his head; he fell on the hatch
moo moooo moo mo moo mooo moo moooo mo moo mooo; mo mooo mo moo moooo

spouting blood like a whale.
mooooooo moooo mooo m moooo.




"Ere the cry could go aft Steelkilt was shaking one of the backstays
"Moo moo moo moooo mo moo Moooooooo moo moooooo moo mo moo moooooooo

leading far aloft to where two of his comrades were standing their
moooooo moo moooo mo moooo moo mo moo mooooooo mooo mooooooo moooo

mastheads. They were both Canallers.
moooooooo. Mooo mooo mooo Moooooooo.




"'Canallers!' cried Don Pedro. 'We have seen many whale-ships in our
"'Moooooooo!' moooo Moo Moooo. 'Mo mooo mooo mooo moooo-moooo mo moo

harbours, but never heard of your Canallers. Pardon: who and what are
mooooooo, moo moooo moooo mo mooo Moooooooo. Mooooo: moo moo mooo moo

they?'
mooo?'




"'Canallers, Don, are the boatmen belonging to our grand Erie Canal. You
"'Moooooooo, Moo, moo moo moooooo moooooooo mo moo moooo Mooo Moooo. Moo

must have heard of it.'
mooo mooo moooo mo mo.'




"'Nay, Senor; hereabouts in this dull, warm, most lazy, and hereditary
"'Moo, Moooo; mooooooooo mo mooo mooo, mooo, mooo mooo, moo mooooooooo

land, we know but little of your vigorous North.'
mooo, mo mooo moo mooooo mo mooo mooooooo Moooo.'




"'Aye? Well then, Don, refill my cup. Your chicha's very fine; and
"'Moo? Mooo mooo, Moo, mooooo mo moo. Mooo mooooo'm mooo mooo; moo

ere proceeding further I will tell ye what our Canallers are; for such
moo mooooooooo moooooo M mooo mooo mo mooo moo Moooooooo moo; moo mooo

information may throw side-light upon my story.'
moooooooooo moo moooo mooo-moooo mooo mo moooo.'




"For three hundred and sixty miles, gentlemen, through the entire
"Moo moooo moooooo moo moooo moooo, moooooooo, moooooo moo mooooo

breadth of the state of New York; through numerous populous cities and
moooooo mo moo moooo mo Moo Mooo; moooooo mooooooo mooooooo mooooo moo

most thriving villages; through long, dismal, uninhabited swamps, and
mooo mooooooo mooooooo; moooooo mooo, mooooo, moooooooooo mooooo, moo

affluent, cultivated fields, unrivalled for fertility; by billiard-room
mooooooo, mooooooooo mooooo, mooooooooo moo moooooooo; mo mooooooo-mooo

and bar-room; through the holy-of-holies of great forests; on Roman
moo moo-mooo; moooooo moo mooo-mo-mooooo mo moooo moooooo; mo Moooo

arches over Indian rivers; through sun and shade; by happy hearts or
mooooo mooo Mooooo mooooo; moooooo moo moo moooo; mo moooo mooooo mo

broken; through all the wide contrasting scenery of those noble Mohawk
mooooo; moooooo moo moo mooo moooooooooo moooooo mo moooo moooo Mooooo

counties; and especially, by rows of snow-white chapels, whose spires
mooooooo; moo mooooooooo, mo mooo mo mooo-moooo moooooo, moooo mooooo

stand almost like milestones, flows one continual stream of Venetianly
moooo mooooo mooo mooooooooo, moooo moo moooooooo mooooo mo Mooooooooo

corrupt and often lawless life. There's your true Ashantee, gentlemen;
moooooo moo moooo moooooo mooo. Moooo'm mooo mooo Mooooooo, moooooooo;

there howl your pagans; where you ever find them, next door to you;
moooo mooo mooo mooooo; moooo moo mooo mooo mooo, mooo mooo mo moo;

under the long-flung shadow, and the snug patronising lee of churches.
moooo moo mooo-moooo mooooo, moo moo mooo moooooooooo moo mo mooooooo.

For by some curious fatality, as it is often noted of your metropolitan
Moo mo mooo moooooo mooooooo, mo mo mo moooo moooo mo mooo mooooooooooo

freebooters that they ever encamp around the halls of justice, so
moooooooooo mooo mooo mooo mooooo mooooo moo moooo mo moooooo, mo

sinners, gentlemen, most abound in holiest vicinities.
moooooo, moooooooo, mooo mooooo mo moooooo mooooooooo.




"'Is that a friar passing?' said Don Pedro, looking downwards into the
"'Mo mooo m moooo moooooo?' mooo Moo Moooo, moooooo moooooooo mooo moo

crowded plazza, with humorous concern.
moooooo mooooo, mooo mooooooo moooooo.




"'Well for our northern friend, Dame Isabella's Inquisition wanes in
"'Mooo moo moo mooooooo mooooo, Mooo Mooooooo'm Moooooooooo moooo mo

Lima,' laughed Don Sebastian. 'Proceed, Senor.'
Mooo,' moooooo Moo Moooooooo. 'Moooooo, Moooo.'




"'A moment! Pardon!' cried another of the company. 'In the name of all
"'M mooooo! Mooooo!' moooo moooooo mo moo moooooo. 'Mo moo mooo mo moo

us Limeese, I but desire to express to you, sir sailor, that we have by
mo Moooooo, M moo mooooo mo moooooo mo moo, moo mooooo, mooo mo mooo mo

no means overlooked your delicacy in not substituting present Lima
mo moooo mooooooooo mooo mooooooo mo moo mooooooooooo moooooo Mooo

for distant Venice in your corrupt comparison. Oh! do not bow and look
moo moooooo Mooooo mo mooo moooooo mooooooooo. Mo! mo moo moo moo mooo

surprised; you know the proverb all along this coast--"Corrupt as
moooooooo; moo mooo moo moooooo moo moooo mooo moooo--"Moooooo mo

Lima." It but bears out your saying, too; churches more plentiful than
Mooo." Mo moo moooo moo mooo mooooo, moo; mooooooo mooo moooooooo mooo

billiard-tables, and for ever open--and "Corrupt as Lima." So, too,
mooooooo-mooooo, moo moo mooo mooo--moo "Moooooo mo Mooo." Mo, moo,

Venice; I have been there; the holy city of the blessed evangelist, St.
Mooooo; M mooo mooo moooo; moo mooo mooo mo moo moooooo mooooooooo, Mo.

Mark!--St. Dominic, purge it! Your cup! Thanks: here I refill; now, you
Mooo!--Mo. Moooooo, moooo mo! Mooo moo! Mooooo: mooo M mooooo; moo, moo

pour out again.'
mooo moo moooo.'




"Freely depicted in his own vocation, gentlemen, the Canaller would make
"Mooooo mooooooo mo moo moo mooooooo, moooooooo, moo Mooooooo moooo mooo

a fine dramatic hero, so abundantly and picturesquely wicked is he. Like
m mooo mooooooo mooo, mo mooooooooo moo moooooooooooo mooooo mo mo. Mooo

Mark Antony, for days and days along his green-turfed, flowery Nile,
Mooo Mooooo, moo mooo moo mooo moooo moo moooo-mooooo, moooooo Mooo,

he indolently floats, openly toying with his red-cheeked Cleopatra,
mo mooooooooo mooooo, mooooo mooooo mooo moo moo-moooooo Moooooooo,

ripening his apricot thigh upon the sunny deck. But ashore, all this
mooooooo moo moooooo moooo mooo moo moooo mooo. Moo mooooo, moo mooo

effeminacy is dashed. The brigandish guise which the Canaller so proudly
mooooooooo mo mooooo. Moo mooooooooo moooo moooo moo Mooooooo mo moooooo

sports; his slouched and gaily-ribboned hat betoken his grand features.
mooooo; moo mooooooo moo moooo-mooooooo moo moooooo moo moooo mooooooo.

A terror to the smiling innocence of the villages through which he
M mooooo mo moo moooooo moooooooo mo moo mooooooo moooooo moooo mo

floats; his swart visage and bold swagger are not unshunned in cities.
mooooo; moo moooo mooooo moo mooo moooooo moo moo moooooooo mo mooooo.

Once a vagabond on his own canal, I have received good turns from one of
Mooo m mooooooo mo moo moo moooo, M mooo mooooooo mooo moooo mooo moo mo

these Canallers; I thank him heartily; would fain be not ungrateful;
moooo Moooooooo; M moooo moo mooooooo; moooo mooo mo moo mooooooooo;

but it is often one of the prime redeeming qualities of your man of
moo mo mo moooo moo mo moo moooo moooooooo moooooooo mo mooo moo mo

violence, that at times he has as stiff an arm to back a poor stranger
mooooooo, mooo mo moooo mo moo mo moooo mo moo mo mooo m mooo mooooooo

in a strait, as to plunder a wealthy one. In sum, gentlemen, what the
mo m mooooo, mo mo moooooo m moooooo moo. Mo moo, moooooooo, mooo moo

wildness of this canal life is, is emphatically evinced by this; that
mooooooo mo mooo moooo mooo mo, mo mooooooooooo moooooo mo mooo; mooo

our wild whale-fishery contains so many of its most finished graduates,
moo mooo moooo-moooooo mooooooo mo mooo mo moo mooo mooooooo moooooooo,

and that scarce any race of mankind, except Sydney men, are so much
moo mooo mooooo moo mooo mo moooooo, mooooo Mooooo moo, moo mo mooo

distrusted by our whaling captains. Nor does it at all diminish the
mooooooooo mo moo moooooo mooooooo. Moo mooo mo mo moo mooooooo moo

curiousness of this matter, that to many thousands of our rural boys and
moooooooooo mo mooo mooooo, mooo mo mooo moooooooo mo moo moooo mooo moo

young men born along its line, the probationary life of the Grand Canal
moooo moo mooo moooo moo mooo, moo mooooooooooo mooo mo moo Moooo Moooo

furnishes the sole transition between quietly reaping in a Christian
moooooooo moo mooo mooooooooo moooooo moooooo moooooo mo m Moooooooo

corn-field, and recklessly ploughing the waters of the most barbaric
mooo-moooo, moo mooooooooo moooooooo moo mooooo mo moo mooo mooooooo

seas.
mooo.




"'I see! I see!' impetuously exclaimed Don Pedro, spilling his chicha
"'M moo! M moo!' moooooooooo moooooooo Moo Moooo, mooooooo moo mooooo

upon his silvery ruffles. 'No need to travel! The world's one Lima. I
mooo moo moooooo moooooo. 'Mo mooo mo mooooo! Moo moooo'm moo Mooo. M

had thought, now, that at your temperate North the generations were cold
moo moooooo, moo, mooo mo mooo moooooooo Moooo moo moooooooooo mooo mooo

and holy as the hills.--But the story.'
moo mooo mo moo moooo.--Moo moo moooo.'




"I left off, gentlemen, where the Lakeman shook the backstay. Hardly
"M mooo moo, moooooooo, moooo moo Moooooo moooo moo mooooooo. Mooooo

had he done so, when he was surrounded by the three junior mates and the
moo mo mooo mo, mooo mo moo mooooooooo mo moo moooo mooooo moooo moo moo

four harpooneers, who all crowded him to the deck. But sliding down the
mooo moooooooooo, moo moo moooooo moo mo moo mooo. Moo moooooo mooo moo

ropes like baleful comets, the two Canallers rushed into the uproar, and
moooo mooo moooooo mooooo, moo moo Moooooooo mooooo mooo moo mooooo, moo

sought to drag their man out of it towards the forecastle. Others of the
mooooo mo mooo moooo moo moo mo mo moooooo moo mooooooooo. Mooooo mo moo

sailors joined with them in this attempt, and a twisted turmoil ensued;
moooooo mooooo mooo mooo mo mooo moooooo, moo m moooooo moooooo mooooo;

while standing out of harm's way, the valiant captain danced up and down
moooo mooooooo moo mo mooo'm moo, moo moooooo moooooo mooooo mo moo mooo

with a whale-pike, calling upon his officers to manhandle that atrocious
mooo m moooo-mooo, moooooo mooo moo mooooooo mo moooooooo mooo moooooooo

scoundrel, and smoke him along to the quarter-deck. At intervals, he ran
moooooooo, moo moooo moo moooo mo moo moooooo-mooo. Mo moooooooo, mo moo

close up to the revolving border of the confusion, and prying into
moooo mo mo moo moooooooo mooooo mo moo moooooooo, moo mooooo mooo

the heart of it with his pike, sought to prick out the object of his
moo moooo mo mo mooo moo mooo, mooooo mo moooo moo moo mooooo mo moo

resentment. But Steelkilt and his desperadoes were too much for them
mooooooooo. Moo Moooooooo moo moo moooooooooo mooo moo mooo moo mooo

all; they succeeded in gaining the forecastle deck, where, hastily
moo; mooo moooooooo mo moooooo moo mooooooooo mooo, moooo, moooooo

slewing about three or four large casks in a line with the windlass,
moooooo moooo moooo mo mooo moooo moooo mo m mooo mooo moo mooooooo,

these sea-Parisians entrenched themselves behind the barricade.
moooo moo-Moooooooo mooooooooo mooooooooo mooooo moo moooooooo.




"'Come out of that, ye pirates!' roared the captain, now menacing them
"'Mooo moo mo mooo, mo moooooo!' mooooo moo moooooo, moo mooooooo mooo

with a pistol in each hand, just brought to him by the steward. 'Come
mooo m mooooo mo mooo mooo, mooo moooooo mo moo mo moo moooooo. 'Mooo

out of that, ye cut-throats!'
moo mo mooo, mo moo-moooooo!'




"Steelkilt leaped on the barricade, and striding up and down there,
"Moooooooo mooooo mo moo moooooooo, moo mooooooo mo moo mooo moooo,

defied the worst the pistols could do; but gave the captain to
mooooo moo moooo moo moooooo moooo mo; moo mooo moo moooooo mo

understand distinctly, that his (Steelkilt's) death would be the signal
mooooooooo mooooooooo, mooo moo (Moooooooo'm) moooo moooo mo moo mooooo

for a murderous mutiny on the part of all hands. Fearing in his heart
moo m moooooooo mooooo mo moo mooo mo moo moooo. Moooooo mo moo moooo

lest this might prove but too true, the captain a little desisted, but
mooo mooo moooo moooo moo moo mooo, moo moooooo m mooooo mooooooo, moo

still commanded the insurgents instantly to return to their duty.
moooo moooooooo moo mooooooooo moooooooo mo mooooo mo moooo mooo.




"'Will you promise not to touch us, if we do?' demanded their
"'Mooo moo moooooo moo mo moooo mo, mo mo mo?' mooooooo moooo

ringleader.
mooooooooo.




"'Turn to! turn to!--I make no promise;--to your duty! Do you want to
"'Mooo mo! mooo mo!--M mooo mo moooooo;--mo mooo mooo! Mo moo mooo mo

sink the ship, by knocking off at a time like this? Turn to!' and he
mooo moo mooo, mo mooooooo moo mo m mooo mooo mooo? Mooo mo!' moo mo

once more raised a pistol.
mooo mooo mooooo m mooooo.




"'Sink the ship?' cried Steelkilt. 'Aye, let her sink. Not a man of us
"'Mooo moo mooo?' moooo Moooooooo. 'Moo, moo moo mooo. Moo m moo mo mo

turns to, unless you swear not to raise a rope-yarn against us. What say
moooo mo, mooooo moo moooo moo mo moooo m mooo-mooo moooooo mo. Mooo moo

ye, men?' turning to his comrades. A fierce cheer was their response.
mo, moo?' moooooo mo moo mooooooo. M mooooo moooo moo moooo mooooooo.




"The Lakeman now patrolled the barricade, all the while keeping his eye
"Moo Moooooo moo moooooooo moo moooooooo, moo moo moooo moooooo moo moo

on the Captain, and jerking out such sentences as these:--'It's not our
mo moo Moooooo, moo moooooo moo mooo moooooooo mo moooo:--'Mo'm moo moo

fault; we didn't want it; I told him to take his hammer away; it was
moooo; mo mooo'm mooo mo; M mooo moo mo mooo moo mooooo mooo; mo moo

boy's business; he might have known me before this; I told him not to
moo'm mooooooo; mo moooo mooo moooo mo mooooo mooo; M mooo moo moo mo

prick the buffalo; I believe I have broken a finger here against his
moooo moo moooooo; M moooooo M mooo mooooo m mooooo mooo moooooo moo

cursed jaw; ain't those mincing knives down in the forecastle there,
mooooo moo; moo'm moooo moooooo mooooo mooo mo moo mooooooooo moooo,

men? look to those handspikes, my hearties. Captain, by God, look to
moo? mooo mo moooo mooooooooo, mo mooooooo. Moooooo, mo Moo, mooo mo

yourself; say the word; don't be a fool; forget it all; we are ready
mooooooo; moo moo mooo; moo'm mo m mooo; mooooo mo moo; mo moo moooo

to turn to; treat us decently, and we're your men; but we won't be
mo mooo mo; moooo mo mooooooo, moo mo'mo mooo moo; moo mo moo'm mo

flogged.'
moooooo.'




"'Turn to! I make no promises, turn to, I say!'
"'Mooo mo! M mooo mo mooooooo, mooo mo, M moo!'




"'Look ye, now,' cried the Lakeman, flinging out his arm towards him,
"'Mooo mo, moo,' moooo moo Moooooo, mooooooo moo moo moo moooooo moo,

'there are a few of us here (and I am one of them) who have shipped
'moooo moo m moo mo mo mooo (moo M mo moo mo mooo) moo mooo moooooo

for the cruise, d'ye see; now as you well know, sir, we can claim our
moo moo mooooo, m'mo moo; moo mo moo mooo mooo, moo, mo moo moooo moo

discharge as soon as the anchor is down; so we don't want a row; it's
moooooooo mo mooo mo moo mooooo mo mooo; mo mo moo'm mooo m moo; mo'm

not our interest; we want to be peaceable; we are ready to work, but we
moo moo mooooooo; mo mooo mo mo moooooooo; mo moo moooo mo mooo, moo mo

won't be flogged.'
moo'm mo moooooo.'




"'Turn to!' roared the Captain.
"'Mooo mo!' mooooo moo Moooooo.




"Steelkilt glanced round him a moment, and then said:--'I tell you what
"Moooooooo moooooo moooo moo m mooooo, moo mooo mooo:--'M mooo moo mooo

it is now, Captain, rather than kill ye, and be hung for such a shabby
mo mo moo, Moooooo, mooooo mooo mooo mo, moo mo mooo moo mooo m mooooo

rascal, we won't lift a hand against ye unless ye attack us; but till
mooooo, mo moo'm mooo m mooo moooooo mo mooooo mo mooooo mo; moo mooo

you say the word about not flogging us, we don't do a hand's turn.'
moo moo moo mooo moooo moo mooooooo mo, mo moo'm mo m mooo'm mooo.'




"'Down into the forecastle then, down with ye, I'll keep ye there till
"'Mooo mooo moo mooooooooo mooo, mooo mooo mo, M'mo mooo mo moooo mooo

ye're sick of it. Down ye go.'
mo'mo mooo mo mo. Mooo mo mo.'




"'Shall we?' cried the ringleader to his men. Most of them were against
"'Moooo mo?' moooo moo mooooooooo mo moo moo. Mooo mo mooo mooo moooooo

it; but at length, in obedience to Steelkilt, they preceded him down
mo; moo mo mooooo, mo moooooooo mo Moooooooo, mooo mooooooo moo mooo

into their dark den, growlingly disappearing, like bears into a cave.
mooo moooo mooo moo, mooooooooo mooooooooooo, mooo moooo mooo m mooo.




"As the Lakeman's bare head was just level with the planks, the Captain
"Mo moo Moooooo'm mooo mooo moo mooo moooo mooo moo mooooo, moo Moooooo

and his posse leaped the barricade, and rapidly drawing over the slide
moo moo moooo mooooo moo moooooooo, moo moooooo moooooo mooo moo moooo

of the scuttle, planted their group of hands upon it, and loudly called
mo moo moooooo, moooooo moooo moooo mo moooo mooo mo, moo mooooo mooooo

for the steward to bring the heavy brass padlock belonging to the
moo moo moooooo mo moooo moo moooo moooo moooooo moooooooo mo moo

companionway.
mooooooooooo.




"Then opening the slide a little, the Captain whispered something
"Mooo moooooo moo moooo m mooooo, moo Moooooo moooooooo moooooooo

down the crack, closed it, and turned the key upon them--ten in
mooo moo moooo, mooooo mo, moo mooooo moo moo mooo mooo--moo mo

number--leaving on deck some twenty or more, who thus far had remained
mooooo--moooooo mo mooo mooo mooooo mo mooo, moo mooo moo moo mooooooo

neutral.
moooooo.




"All night a wide-awake watch was kept by all the officers, forward and
"Moo moooo m mooo-moooo moooo moo mooo mo moo moo mooooooo, moooooo moo

aft, especially about the forecastle scuttle and fore hatchway; at which
moo, mooooooooo moooo moo mooooooooo moooooo moo mooo mooooooo; mo moooo

last place it was feared the insurgents might emerge, after breaking
mooo moooo mo moo mooooo moo mooooooooo moooo mooooo, moooo mooooooo

through the bulkhead below. But the hours of darkness passed in peace;
moooooo moo mooooooo moooo. Moo moo moooo mo mooooooo mooooo mo moooo;

the men who still remained at their duty toiling hard at the pumps,
moo moo moo moooo mooooooo mo moooo mooo moooooo mooo mo moo moooo,

whose clinking and clanking at intervals through the dreary night
moooo mooooooo moo mooooooo mo moooooooo moooooo moo mooooo moooo

dismally resounded through the ship.
mooooooo moooooooo moooooo moo mooo.




"At sunrise the Captain went forward, and knocking on the deck, summoned
"Mo moooooo moo Moooooo mooo moooooo, moo mooooooo mo moo mooo, mooooooo

the prisoners to work; but with a yell they refused. Water was then
moo moooooooo mo mooo; moo mooo m mooo mooo moooooo. Moooo moo mooo

lowered down to them, and a couple of handfuls of biscuit were tossed
moooooo mooo mo mooo, moo m mooooo mo mooooooo mo moooooo mooo mooooo

after it; when again turning the key upon them and pocketing it, the
moooo mo; mooo moooo moooooo moo moo mooo mooo moo moooooooo mo, moo

Captain returned to the quarter-deck. Twice every day for three days
Moooooo mooooooo mo moo moooooo-mooo. Moooo moooo moo moo moooo mooo

this was repeated; but on the fourth morning a confused wrangling, and
mooo moo mooooooo; moo mo moo mooooo moooooo m mooooooo moooooooo, moo

then a scuffling was heard, as the customary summons was delivered; and
mooo m moooooooo moo moooo, mo moo moooooooo moooooo moo moooooooo; moo

suddenly four men burst up from the forecastle, saying they were ready
mooooooo mooo moo moooo mo mooo moo mooooooooo, mooooo mooo mooo moooo

to turn to. The fetid closeness of the air, and a famishing diet, united
mo mooo mo. Moo moooo moooooooo mo moo moo, moo m moooooooo mooo, mooooo

perhaps to some fears of ultimate retribution, had constrained them to
moooooo mo mooo moooo mo mooooooo moooooooooo, moo moooooooooo mooo mo

surrender at discretion. Emboldened by this, the Captain reiterated his
moooooooo mo mooooooooo. Mooooooooo mo mooo, moo Moooooo mooooooooo moo

demand to the rest, but Steelkilt shouted up to him a terrific hint to
mooooo mo moo mooo, moo Moooooooo moooooo mo mo moo m mooooooo mooo mo

stop his babbling and betake himself where he belonged. On the fifth
mooo moo mooooooo moo mooooo moooooo moooo mo mooooooo. Mo moo moooo

morning three others of the mutineers bolted up into the air from the
moooooo moooo mooooo mo moo moooooooo mooooo mo mooo moo moo mooo moo

desperate arms below that sought to restrain them. Only three were left.
moooooooo mooo moooo mooo mooooo mo mooooooo mooo. Mooo moooo mooo mooo.




"'Better turn to, now?' said the Captain with a heartless jeer.
"'Mooooo mooo mo, moo?' mooo moo Moooooo mooo m moooooooo mooo.




"'Shut us up again, will ye!' cried Steelkilt.
"'Mooo mo mo moooo, mooo mo!' moooo Moooooooo.




"'Oh certainly,' said the Captain, and the key clicked.
"'Mo moooooooo,' mooo moo Moooooo, moo moo moo moooooo.




"It was at this point, gentlemen, that enraged by the defection of seven
"Mo moo mo mooo moooo, moooooooo, mooo moooooo mo moo moooooooo mo moooo

of his former associates, and stung by the mocking voice that had last
mo moo mooooo mooooooooo, moo moooo mo moo moooooo moooo mooo moo mooo

hailed him, and maddened by his long entombment in a place as black as
mooooo moo, moo mooooooo mo moo mooo mooooooooo mo m moooo mo moooo mo

the bowels of despair; it was then that Steelkilt proposed to the two
moo mooooo mo moooooo; mo moo mooo mooo Moooooooo mooooooo mo moo moo

Canallers, thus far apparently of one mind with him, to burst out of
Moooooooo, mooo moo mooooooooo mo moo mooo mooo moo, mo moooo moo mo

their hole at the next summoning of the garrison; and armed with their
moooo mooo mo moo mooo moooooooo mo moo mooooooo; moo moooo mooo moooo

keen mincing knives (long, crescentic, heavy implements with a handle
mooo moooooo mooooo (mooo, mooooooooo, moooo mooooooooo mooo m mooooo

at each end) run amuck from the bowsprit to the taffrail; and if by any
mo mooo moo) moo moooo mooo moo mooooooo mo moo mooooooo; moo mo mo moo

devilishness of desperation possible, seize the ship. For himself, he
mooooooooooo mo moooooooooo mooooooo, moooo moo mooo. Moo moooooo, mo

would do this, he said, whether they joined him or not. That was the
moooo mo mooo, mo mooo, moooooo mooo mooooo moo mo moo. Mooo moo moo

last night he should spend in that den. But the scheme met with no
mooo moooo mo mooooo moooo mo mooo moo. Moo moo mooooo moo mooo mo

opposition on the part of the other two; they swore they were ready for
mooooooooo mo moo mooo mo moo moooo moo; mooo moooo mooo mooo moooo moo

that, or for any other mad thing, for anything in short but a surrender.
mooo, mo moo moo moooo moo moooo, moo mooooooo mo moooo moo m moooooooo.

And what was more, they each insisted upon being the first man on deck,
Moo mooo moo mooo, mooo mooo mooooooo mooo moooo moo moooo moo mo mooo,

when the time to make the rush should come. But to this their leader as
mooo moo mooo mo mooo moo mooo mooooo mooo. Moo mo mooo moooo mooooo mo

fiercely objected, reserving that priority for himself; particularly as
mooooooo mooooooo, moooooooo mooo mooooooo moo moooooo; mooooooooooo mo

his two comrades would not yield, the one to the other, in the matter;
moo moo mooooooo moooo moo moooo, moo moo mo moo moooo, mo moo mooooo;

and both of them could not be first, for the ladder would but admit one
moo mooo mo mooo moooo moo mo moooo, moo moo mooooo moooo moo moooo moo

man at a time. And here, gentlemen, the foul play of these miscreants
moo mo m mooo. Moo mooo, moooooooo, moo mooo mooo mo moooo mooooooooo

must come out.
mooo mooo moo.




"Upon hearing the frantic project of their leader, each in his own
"Mooo moooooo moo moooooo moooooo mo moooo mooooo, mooo mo moo moo

separate soul had suddenly lighted, it would seem, upon the same piece
mooooooo mooo moo mooooooo moooooo, mo moooo mooo, mooo moo mooo moooo

of treachery, namely: to be foremost in breaking out, in order to be
mo moooooooo, mooooo: mo mo mooooooo mo mooooooo moo, mo moooo mo mo

the first of the three, though the last of the ten, to surrender; and
moo moooo mo moo moooo, mooooo moo mooo mo moo moo, mo moooooooo; moo

thereby secure whatever small chance of pardon such conduct might merit.
moooooo mooooo mooooooo moooo mooooo mo mooooo mooo moooooo moooo moooo.

But when Steelkilt made known his determination still to lead them to
Moo mooo Moooooooo mooo moooo moo moooooooooooo moooo mo mooo mooo mo

the last, they in some way, by some subtle chemistry of villany, mixed
moo mooo, mooo mo mooo moo, mo mooo mooooo moooooooo mo moooooo, moooo

their before secret treacheries together; and when their leader
moooo mooooo mooooo moooooooooo mooooooo; moo mooo moooo mooooo

fell into a doze, verbally opened their souls to each other in three
mooo mooo m mooo, mooooooo mooooo moooo moooo mo mooo moooo mo moooo

sentences; and bound the sleeper with cords, and gagged him with cords;
moooooooo; moo moooo moo moooooo mooo moooo, moo mooooo moo mooo moooo;

and shrieked out for the Captain at midnight.
moo mooooooo moo moo moo Moooooo mo mooooooo.




"Thinking murder at hand, and smelling in the dark for the blood, he and
"Mooooooo mooooo mo mooo, moo mooooooo mo moo mooo moo moo moooo, mo moo

all his armed mates and harpooneers rushed for the forecastle. In a
moo moo moooo moooo moo moooooooooo mooooo moo moo mooooooooo. Mo m

few minutes the scuttle was opened, and, bound hand and foot, the still
moo moooooo moo moooooo moo mooooo, moo, moooo mooo moo mooo, moo moooo

struggling ringleader was shoved up into the air by his perfidious
mooooooooo mooooooooo moo mooooo mo mooo moo moo mo moo mooooooooo

allies, who at once claimed the honour of securing a man who had been
mooooo, moo mo mooo moooooo moo mooooo mo mooooooo m moo moo moo mooo

fully ripe for murder. But all these were collared, and dragged along
moooo mooo moo mooooo. Moo moo moooo mooo mooooooo, moo moooooo moooo

the deck like dead cattle; and, side by side, were seized up into the
moo mooo mooo mooo mooooo; moo, mooo mo mooo, mooo mooooo mo mooo moo

mizzen rigging, like three quarters of meat, and there they hung till
mooooo moooooo, mooo moooo mooooooo mo mooo, moo moooo mooo mooo mooo

morning. 'Damn ye,' cried the Captain, pacing to and fro before them,
moooooo. 'Mooo mo,' moooo moo Moooooo, mooooo mo moo moo mooooo mooo,

'the vultures would not touch ye, ye villains!'
'moo mooooooo moooo moo moooo mo, mo mooooooo!'




"At sunrise he summoned all hands; and separating those who had rebelled
"Mo moooooo mo mooooooo moo moooo; moo mooooooooo moooo moo moo mooooooo

from those who had taken no part in the mutiny, he told the former that
mooo moooo moo moo moooo mo mooo mo moo mooooo, mo mooo moo mooooo mooo

he had a good mind to flog them all round--thought, upon the whole,
mo moo m mooo mooo mo mooo mooo moo moooo--moooooo, mooo moo moooo,

he would do so--he ought to--justice demanded it; but for the present,
mo moooo mo mo--mo moooo mo--moooooo mooooooo mo; moo moo moo moooooo,

considering their timely surrender, he would let them go with a
moooooooooo moooo mooooo moooooooo, mo moooo moo mooo mo mooo m

reprimand, which he accordingly administered in the vernacular.
moooooooo, moooo mo moooooooooo mooooooooooo mo moo mooooooooo.




"'But as for you, ye carrion rogues,' turning to the three men in the
"'Moo mo moo moo, mo moooooo mooooo,' moooooo mo moo moooo moo mo moo

rigging--'for you, I mean to mince ye up for the try-pots;' and,
moooooo--'moo moo, M mooo mo moooo mo mo moo moo moo-mooo;' moo,

seizing a rope, he applied it with all his might to the backs of the
moooooo m mooo, mo moooooo mo mooo moo moo moooo mo moo moooo mo moo

two traitors, till they yelled no more, but lifelessly hung their heads
moo mooooooo, mooo mooo mooooo mo mooo, moo mooooooooo mooo moooo moooo

sideways, as the two crucified thieves are drawn.
mooooooo, mo moo moo moooooooo moooooo moo moooo.




"'My wrist is sprained with ye!' he cried, at last; 'but there is still
"'Mo moooo mo mooooooo mooo mo!' mo moooo, mo mooo; 'moo moooo mo moooo

rope enough left for you, my fine bantam, that wouldn't give up. Take
mooo mooooo mooo moo moo, mo mooo mooooo, mooo mooooo'm mooo mo. Mooo

that gag from his mouth, and let us hear what he can say for himself.'
mooo moo mooo moo moooo, moo moo mo mooo mooo mo moo moo moo moooooo.'




"For a moment the exhausted mutineer made a tremulous motion of his
"Moo m mooooo moo moooooooo mooooooo mooo m moooooooo mooooo mo moo

cramped jaws, and then painfully twisting round his head, said in a sort
moooooo mooo, moo mooo moooooooo mooooooo moooo moo mooo, mooo mo m mooo

of hiss, 'What I say is this--and mind it well--if you flog me, I murder
mo mooo, 'Mooo M moo mo mooo--moo mooo mo mooo--mo moo mooo mo, M mooooo

you!'
moo!'




"'Say ye so? then see how ye frighten me'--and the Captain drew off with
"'Moo mo mo? mooo moo moo mo mooooooo mo'--moo moo Moooooo mooo moo mooo

the rope to strike.
moo mooo mo mooooo.




"'Best not,' hissed the Lakeman.
"'Mooo moo,' mooooo moo Moooooo.




"'But I must,'--and the rope was once more drawn back for the stroke.
"'Moo M mooo,'--moo moo mooo moo mooo mooo moooo mooo moo moo mooooo.




"Steelkilt here hissed out something, inaudible to all but the Captain;
"Moooooooo mooo mooooo moo moooooooo, moooooooo mo moo moo moo Moooooo;

who, to the amazement of all hands, started back, paced the deck rapidly
moo, mo moo moooooooo mo moo moooo, moooooo mooo, moooo moo mooo moooooo

two or three times, and then suddenly throwing down his rope, said, 'I
moo mo moooo moooo, moo mooo mooooooo mooooooo mooo moo mooo, mooo, 'M

won't do it--let him go--cut him down: d'ye hear?'
moo'm mo mo--moo moo mo--moo moo mooo: m'mo mooo?'




"But as the junior mates were hurrying to execute the order, a pale man,
"Moo mo moo mooooo moooo mooo mooooooo mo moooooo moo moooo, m mooo moo,

with a bandaged head, arrested them--Radney the chief mate. Ever since
mooo m mooooooo mooo, mooooooo mooo--Mooooo moo moooo mooo. Mooo moooo

the blow, he had lain in his berth; but that morning, hearing the tumult
moo mooo, mo moo mooo mo moo moooo; moo mooo moooooo, moooooo moo mooooo

on the deck, he had crept out, and thus far had watched the whole
mo moo mooo, mo moo moooo moo, moo mooo moo moo moooooo moo moooo

scene. Such was the state of his mouth, that he could hardly speak;
moooo. Mooo moo moo moooo mo moo moooo, mooo mo moooo mooooo moooo;

but mumbling something about his being willing and able to do what the
moo mooooooo moooooooo moooo moo moooo moooooo moo mooo mo mo mooo moo

captain dared not attempt, he snatched the rope and advanced to his
moooooo moooo moo moooooo, mo mooooooo moo mooo moo mooooooo mo moo

pinioned foe.
mooooooo moo.




"'You are a coward!' hissed the Lakeman.
"'Moo moo m mooooo!' mooooo moo Moooooo.




"'So I am, but take that.' The mate was in the very act of striking,
"'Mo M mo, moo mooo mooo.' Moo mooo moo mo moo mooo moo mo mooooooo,

when another hiss stayed his uplifted arm. He paused: and then pausing
mooo moooooo mooo mooooo moo mooooooo moo. Mo mooooo: moo mooo moooooo

no more, made good his word, spite of Steelkilt's threat, whatever that
mo mooo, mooo mooo moo mooo, moooo mo Moooooooo'm mooooo, mooooooo mooo

might have been. The three men were then cut down, all hands were turned
moooo mooo mooo. Moo moooo moo mooo mooo moo mooo, moo moooo mooo mooooo

to, and, sullenly worked by the moody seamen, the iron pumps clanged as
mo, moo, mooooooo mooooo mo moo moooo mooooo, moo mooo moooo moooooo mo

before.
mooooo.




"Just after dark that day, when one watch had retired below, a clamor
"Mooo moooo mooo mooo moo, mooo moo moooo moo moooooo moooo, m mooooo

was heard in the forecastle; and the two trembling traitors running up,
moo moooo mo moo mooooooooo; moo moo moo moooooooo mooooooo moooooo mo,

besieged the cabin door, saying they durst not consort with the crew.
mooooooo moo moooo mooo, mooooo mooo moooo moo moooooo mooo moo mooo.

Entreaties, cuffs, and kicks could not drive them back, so at their own
Mooooooooo, moooo, moo moooo moooo moo moooo mooo mooo, mo mo moooo moo

instance they were put down in the ship's run for salvation. Still, no
mooooooo mooo mooo moo mooo mo moo mooo'm moo moo moooooooo. Moooo, mo

sign of mutiny reappeared among the rest. On the contrary, it seemed,
mooo mo mooooo mooooooooo moooo moo mooo. Mo moo mooooooo, mo mooooo,

that mainly at Steelkilt's instigation, they had resolved to maintain
mooo mooooo mo Moooooooo'm moooooooooo, mooo moo mooooooo mo mooooooo

the strictest peacefulness, obey all orders to the last, and, when the
moo moooooooo mooooooooooo, mooo moo mooooo mo moo mooo, moo, mooo moo

ship reached port, desert her in a body. But in order to insure the
mooo moooooo mooo, mooooo moo mo m mooo. Moo mo moooo mo mooooo moo

speediest end to the voyage, they all agreed to another thing--namely,
moooooooo moo mo moo mooooo, mooo moo mooooo mo moooooo moooo--mooooo,

not to sing out for whales, in case any should be discovered. For,
moo mo mooo moo moo mooooo, mo mooo moo mooooo mo mooooooooo. Moo,

spite of her leak, and spite of all her other perils, the Town-Ho still
moooo mo moo mooo, moo moooo mo moo moo moooo mooooo, moo Mooo-Mo moooo

maintained her mast-heads, and her captain was just as willing to
mooooooooo moo mooo-moooo, moo moo moooooo moo mooo mo moooooo mo

lower for a fish that moment, as on the day his craft first struck the
moooo moo m mooo mooo mooooo, mo mo moo moo moo moooo moooo mooooo moo

cruising ground; and Radney the mate was quite as ready to change his
mooooooo mooooo; moo Mooooo moo mooo moo moooo mo moooo mo mooooo moo

berth for a boat, and with his bandaged mouth seek to gag in death the
moooo moo m mooo, moo mooo moo mooooooo moooo mooo mo moo mo moooo moo

vital jaw of the whale.
moooo moo mo moo moooo.




"But though the Lakeman had induced the seamen to adopt this sort of
"Moo mooooo moo Moooooo moo moooooo moo mooooo mo moooo mooo mooo mo

passiveness in their conduct, he kept his own counsel (at least till all
moooooooooo mo moooo moooooo, mo mooo moo moo moooooo (mo moooo mooo moo

was over) concerning his own proper and private revenge upon the man who
moo mooo) mooooooooo moo moo mooooo moo moooooo moooooo mooo moo moo moo

had stung him in the ventricles of his heart. He was in Radney the chief
moo moooo moo mo moo mooooooooo mo moo moooo. Mo moo mo Mooooo moo moooo

mate's watch; and as if the infatuated man sought to run more than
mooo'm moooo; moo mo mo moo mooooooooo moo mooooo mo moo mooo mooo

half way to meet his doom, after the scene at the rigging, he insisted,
mooo moo mo mooo moo mooo, moooo moo moooo mo moo moooooo, mo mooooooo,

against the express counsel of the captain, upon resuming the head
moooooo moo moooooo moooooo mo moo moooooo, mooo mooooooo moo mooo

of his watch at night. Upon this, and one or two other circumstances,
mo moo moooo mo moooo. Mooo mooo, moo moo mo moo moooo moooooooooooo,

Steelkilt systematically built the plan of his revenge.
Moooooooo mooooooooooooo moooo moo mooo mo moo moooooo.




"During the night, Radney had an unseamanlike way of sitting on the
"Mooooo moo moooo, Mooooo moo mo mooooooooooo moo mo moooooo mo moo

bulwarks of the quarter-deck, and leaning his arm upon the gunwale of
mooooooo mo moo moooooo-mooo, moo moooooo moo moo mooo moo moooooo mo

the boat which was hoisted up there, a little above the ship's side.
moo mooo moooo moo moooooo mo moooo, m mooooo moooo moo mooo'm mooo.

In this attitude, it was well known, he sometimes dozed. There was a
Mo mooo mooooooo, mo moo mooo moooo, mo moooooooo moooo. Moooo moo m

considerable vacancy between the boat and the ship, and down between
mooooooooooo moooooo moooooo moo mooo moo moo mooo, moo mooo moooooo

this was the sea. Steelkilt calculated his time, and found that his next
mooo moo moo moo. Moooooooo mooooooooo moo mooo, moo moooo mooo moo mooo

trick at the helm would come round at two o'clock, in the morning of the
moooo mo moo mooo moooo mooo moooo mo moo m'moooo, mo moo moooooo mo moo

third day from that in which he had been betrayed. At his leisure,
moooo moo mooo mooo mo moooo mo moo mooo mooooooo. Mo moo moooooo,

he employed the interval in braiding something very carefully in his
mo mooooooo moo mooooooo mo mooooooo moooooooo mooo moooooooo mo moo

watches below.
moooooo moooo.




"'What are you making there?' said a shipmate.
"'Mooo moo moo mooooo moooo?' mooo m mooooooo.




"'What do you think? what does it look like?'
"'Mooo mo moo moooo? mooo mooo mo mooo mooo?'




"'Like a lanyard for your bag; but it's an odd one, seems to me.'
"'Mooo m moooooo moo mooo moo; moo mo'm mo moo moo, moooo mo mo.'




"'Yes, rather oddish,' said the Lakeman, holding it at arm's length
"'Moo, mooooo mooooo,' mooo moo Moooooo, moooooo mo mo moo'm mooooo

before him; 'but I think it will answer. Shipmate, I haven't enough
mooooo moo; 'moo M moooo mo mooo mooooo. Mooooooo, M moooo'm mooooo

twine,--have you any?'
moooo,--mooo moo moo?'




"But there was none in the forecastle.
"Moo moooo moo mooo mo moo mooooooooo.




"'Then I must get some from old Rad;' and he rose to go aft.
"'Mooo M mooo moo mooo mooo moo Moo;' moo mo mooo mo mo moo.




"'You don't mean to go a begging to HIM!' said a sailor.
"'Moo moo'm mooo mo mo m moooooo mo MOO!' mooo m mooooo.




"'Why not? Do you think he won't do me a turn, when it's to help himself
"'Moo moo? Mo moo moooo mo moo'm mo mo m mooo, mooo mo'm mo mooo moooooo

in the end, shipmate?' and going to the mate, he looked at him
mo moo moo, mooooooo?' moo moooo mo moo mooo, mo mooooo mo moo

quietly, and asked him for some twine to mend his hammock. It was given
moooooo, moo moooo moo moo mooo moooo mo mooo moo moooooo. Mo moo moooo

him--neither twine nor lanyard were seen again; but the next night
moo--moooooo moooo moo moooooo mooo mooo moooo; moo moo mooo moooo

an iron ball, closely netted, partly rolled from the pocket of the
mo mooo mooo, moooooo mooooo, mooooo mooooo mooo moo mooooo mo moo

Lakeman's monkey jacket, as he was tucking the coat into his hammock for
Moooooo'm mooooo mooooo, mo mo moo moooooo moo mooo mooo moo moooooo moo

a pillow. Twenty-four hours after, his trick at the silent helm--nigh
m mooooo. Mooooo-mooo moooo moooo, moo moooo mo moo mooooo mooo--mooo

to the man who was apt to doze over the grave always ready dug to
mo moo moo moo moo moo mo mooo mooo moo moooo mooooo moooo moo mo

the seaman's hand--that fatal hour was then to come; and in the
moo mooooo'm mooo--mooo moooo mooo moo mooo mo mooo; moo mo moo

fore-ordaining soul of Steelkilt, the mate was already stark and
mooo-moooooooo mooo mo Moooooooo, moo mooo moo moooooo moooo moo

stretched as a corpse, with his forehead crushed in.
moooooooo mo m mooooo, mooo moo mooooooo moooooo mo.




"But, gentlemen, a fool saved the would-be murderer from the bloody
"Moo, moooooooo, m mooo moooo moo moooo-mo mooooooo mooo moo mooooo

deed he had planned. Yet complete revenge he had, and without being the
mooo mo moo moooooo. Moo mooooooo moooooo mo moo, moo moooooo moooo moo

avenger. For by a mysterious fatality, Heaven itself seemed to step in
moooooo. Moo mo m mooooooooo mooooooo, Mooooo mooooo mooooo mo mooo mo

to take out of his hands into its own the damning thing he would have
mo mooo moo mo moo moooo mooo moo moo moo moooooo moooo mo moooo mooo

done.
mooo.




"It was just between daybreak and sunrise of the morning of the second
"Mo moo mooo moooooo mooooooo moo moooooo mo moo moooooo mo moo mooooo

day, when they were washing down the decks, that a stupid Teneriffe man,
moo, mooo mooo mooo moooooo mooo moo moooo, mooo m mooooo Moooooooo moo,

drawing water in the main-chains, all at once shouted out, 'There she
moooooo moooo mo moo mooo-mooooo, moo mo mooo moooooo moo, 'Moooo moo

rolls! there she rolls!' Jesu, what a whale! It was Moby Dick.
moooo! moooo moo moooo!' Mooo, mooo m moooo! Mo moo Mooo Mooo.




"'Moby Dick!' cried Don Sebastian; 'St. Dominic! Sir sailor, but do
"'Mooo Mooo!' moooo Moo Moooooooo; 'Mo. Moooooo! Moo mooooo, moo mo

whales have christenings? Whom call you Moby Dick?'
mooooo mooo mooooooooooo? Mooo mooo moo Mooo Mooo?'




"'A very white, and famous, and most deadly immortal monster, Don;--but
"'M mooo moooo, moo mooooo, moo mooo mooooo mooooooo moooooo, Moo;--moo

that would be too long a story.'
mooo moooo mo moo mooo m moooo.'




"'How? how?' cried all the young Spaniards, crowding.
"'Moo? moo?' moooo moo moo moooo Moooooooo, mooooooo.




"'Nay, Dons, Dons--nay, nay! I cannot rehearse that now. Let me get more
"'Moo, Mooo, Mooo--moo, moo! M mooooo mooooooo mooo moo. Moo mo moo mooo

into the air, Sirs.'
mooo moo moo, Mooo.'




"'The chicha! the chicha!' cried Don Pedro; 'our vigorous friend looks
"'Moo mooooo! moo mooooo!' moooo Moo Moooo; 'moo mooooooo mooooo moooo

faint;--fill up his empty glass!'
moooo;--mooo mo moo moooo moooo!'




"No need, gentlemen; one moment, and I proceed.--Now, gentlemen,
"Mo mooo, moooooooo; moo mooooo, moo M moooooo.--Moo, moooooooo,

so suddenly perceiving the snowy whale within fifty yards of the
mo mooooooo mooooooooo moo moooo moooo mooooo moooo moooo mo moo

ship--forgetful of the compact among the crew--in the excitement of the
mooo--moooooooo mo moo moooooo moooo moo mooo--mo moo mooooooooo mo moo

moment, the Teneriffe man had instinctively and involuntarily lifted
mooooo, moo Moooooooo moo moo moooooooooooo moo moooooooooooo mooooo

his voice for the monster, though for some little time past it had been
moo moooo moo moo moooooo, mooooo moo mooo mooooo mooo mooo mo moo mooo

plainly beheld from the three sullen mast-heads. All was now a phrensy.
moooooo mooooo mooo moo moooo mooooo mooo-moooo. Moo moo moo m moooooo.

'The White Whale--the White Whale!' was the cry from captain, mates,
'Moo Moooo Moooo--moo Moooo Moooo!' moo moo moo mooo moooooo, moooo,

and harpooneers, who, undeterred by fearful rumours, were all anxious
moo moooooooooo, moo, mooooooooo mo moooooo moooooo, mooo moo moooooo

to capture so famous and precious a fish; while the dogged crew eyed
mo moooooo mo mooooo moo mooooooo m mooo; moooo moo mooooo mooo mooo

askance, and with curses, the appalling beauty of the vast milky mass,
moooooo, moo mooo mooooo, moo moooooooo mooooo mo moo mooo moooo mooo,

that lit up by a horizontal spangling sun, shifted and glistened like
mooo moo mo mo m mooooooooo moooooooo moo, moooooo moo moooooooo mooo

a living opal in the blue morning sea. Gentlemen, a strange fatality
m mooooo mooo mo moo mooo moooooo moo. Moooooooo, m moooooo mooooooo

pervades the whole career of these events, as if verily mapped out
mooooooo moo moooo mooooo mo moooo mooooo, mo mo mooooo mooooo moo

before the world itself was charted. The mutineer was the bowsman of the
mooooo moo moooo mooooo moo moooooo. Moo mooooooo moo moo moooooo mo moo

mate, and when fast to a fish, it was his duty to sit next him, while
mooo, moo mooo mooo mo m mooo, mo moo moo mooo mo moo mooo moo, moooo

Radney stood up with his lance in the prow, and haul in or slacken
Mooooo moooo mo mooo moo moooo mo moo mooo, moo mooo mo mo moooooo

the line, at the word of command. Moreover, when the four boats were
moo mooo, mo moo mooo mo moooooo. Mooooooo, mooo moo mooo moooo mooo

lowered, the mate's got the start; and none howled more fiercely with
moooooo, moo mooo'm moo moo moooo; moo mooo mooooo mooo mooooooo mooo

delight than did Steelkilt, as he strained at his oar. After a stiff
moooooo mooo moo Moooooooo, mo mo mooooooo mo moo moo. Moooo m moooo

pull, their harpooneer got fast, and, spear in hand, Radney sprang to
mooo, moooo mooooooooo moo mooo, moo, moooo mo mooo, Mooooo mooooo mo

the bow. He was always a furious man, it seems, in a boat. And now his
moo moo. Mo moo mooooo m moooooo moo, mo moooo, mo m mooo. Moo moo moo

bandaged cry was, to beach him on the whale's topmost back. Nothing
mooooooo moo moo, mo moooo moo mo moo moooo'm moooooo mooo. Moooooo

loath, his bowsman hauled him up and up, through a blinding foam that
moooo, moo moooooo mooooo moo mo moo mo, moooooo m mooooooo mooo mooo

blent two whitenesses together; till of a sudden the boat struck as
moooo moo moooooooooo mooooooo; mooo mo m mooooo moo mooo mooooo mo

against a sunken ledge, and keeling over, spilled out the standing mate.
moooooo m mooooo moooo, moo moooooo mooo, moooooo moo moo mooooooo mooo.

That instant, as he fell on the whale's slippery back, the boat righted,
Mooo moooooo, mo mo mooo mo moo moooo'm mooooooo mooo, moo mooo moooooo,

and was dashed aside by the swell, while Radney was tossed over into the
moo moo mooooo moooo mo moo moooo, moooo Mooooo moo mooooo mooo mooo moo

sea, on the other flank of the whale. He struck out through the spray,
moo, mo moo moooo moooo mo moo moooo. Mo mooooo moo moooooo moo moooo,

and, for an instant, was dimly seen through that veil, wildly seeking to
moo, moo mo moooooo, moo moooo mooo moooooo mooo mooo, mooooo moooooo mo

remove himself from the eye of Moby Dick. But the whale rushed round
mooooo moooooo mooo moo moo mo Mooo Mooo. Moo moo moooo mooooo moooo

in a sudden maelstrom; seized the swimmer between his jaws; and rearing
mo m mooooo moooooooo; mooooo moo moooooo moooooo moo mooo; moo moooooo

high up with him, plunged headlong again, and went down.
mooo mo mooo moo, moooooo mooooooo moooo, moo mooo mooo.




"Meantime, at the first tap of the boat's bottom, the Lakeman had
"Mooooooo, mo moo moooo moo mo moo mooo'm mooooo, moo Moooooo moo

slackened the line, so as to drop astern from the whirlpool; calmly
moooooooo moo mooo, mo mo mo mooo mooooo mooo moo moooooooo; mooooo

looking on, he thought his own thoughts. But a sudden, terrific,
moooooo mo, mo moooooo moo moo mooooooo. Moo m mooooo, mooooooo,

downward jerking of the boat, quickly brought his knife to the line. He
mooooooo moooooo mo moo mooo, moooooo moooooo moo moooo mo moo mooo. Mo

cut it; and the whale was free. But, at some distance, Moby Dick rose
moo mo; moo moo moooo moo mooo. Moo, mo mooo mooooooo, Mooo Mooo mooo

again, with some tatters of Radney's red woollen shirt, caught in the
moooo, mooo mooo moooooo mo Mooooo'm moo moooooo moooo, mooooo mo moo

teeth that had destroyed him. All four boats gave chase again; but the
moooo mooo moo moooooooo moo. Moo mooo moooo mooo moooo moooo; moo moo

whale eluded them, and finally wholly disappeared.
moooo mooooo mooo, moo moooooo mooooo moooooooooo.




"In good time, the Town-Ho reached her port--a savage, solitary
"Mo mooo mooo, moo Mooo-Mo moooooo moo mooo--m mooooo, mooooooo

place--where no civilized creature resided. There, headed by the
moooo--moooo mo moooooooo mooooooo moooooo. Moooo, mooooo mo moo

Lakeman, all but five or six of the foremastmen deliberately deserted
Moooooo, moo moo mooo mo moo mo moo moooooooooo mooooooooooo mooooooo

among the palms; eventually, as it turned out, seizing a large double
moooo moo moooo; mooooooooo, mo mo mooooo moo, moooooo m moooo mooooo

war-canoe of the savages, and setting sail for some other harbor.
moo-moooo mo moo moooooo, moo moooooo mooo moo mooo moooo mooooo.




"The ship's company being reduced to but a handful, the captain called
"Moo mooo'm moooooo moooo moooooo mo moo m moooooo, moo moooooo mooooo

upon the Islanders to assist him in the laborious business of heaving
mooo moo Moooooooo mo mooooo moo mo moo moooooooo mooooooo mo moooooo

down the ship to stop the leak. But to such unresting vigilance over
mooo moo mooo mo mooo moo mooo. Moo mo mooo moooooooo moooooooo mooo

their dangerous allies was this small band of whites necessitated, both
moooo moooooooo mooooo moo mooo moooo mooo mo mooooo mooooooooooo, mooo

by night and by day, and so extreme was the hard work they underwent,
mo moooo moo mo moo, moo mo moooooo moo moo mooo mooo mooo moooooooo,

that upon the vessel being ready again for sea, they were in such a
mooo mooo moo mooooo moooo moooo moooo moo moo, mooo mooo mo mooo m

weakened condition that the captain durst not put off with them in so
mooooooo moooooooo mooo moo moooooo moooo moo moo moo mooo mooo mo mo

heavy a vessel. After taking counsel with his officers, he anchored the
moooo m mooooo. Moooo mooooo moooooo mooo moo mooooooo, mo mooooooo moo

ship as far off shore as possible; loaded and ran out his two cannon
mooo mo moo moo moooo mo mooooooo; mooooo moo moo moo moo moo mooooo

from the bows; stacked his muskets on the poop; and warning the
mooo moo mooo; moooooo moo moooooo mo moo mooo; moo moooooo moo

Islanders not to approach the ship at their peril, took one man with
Moooooooo moo mo mooooooo moo mooo mo moooo moooo, mooo moo moo mooo

him, and setting the sail of his best whale-boat, steered straight
moo, moo moooooo moo mooo mo moo mooo moooo-mooo, moooooo mooooooo

before the wind for Tahiti, five hundred miles distant, to procure a
mooooo moo mooo moo Mooooo, mooo moooooo moooo moooooo, mo moooooo m

reinforcement to his crew.
moooooooooooo mo moo mooo.




"On the fourth day of the sail, a large canoe was descried, which seemed
"Mo moo mooooo moo mo moo mooo, m moooo moooo moo mooooooo, moooo mooooo

to have touched at a low isle of corals. He steered away from it; but
mo mooo moooooo mo m moo mooo mo mooooo. Mo moooooo mooo mooo mo; moo

the savage craft bore down on him; and soon the voice of Steelkilt
moo mooooo moooo mooo mooo mo moo; moo mooo moo moooo mo Moooooooo

hailed him to heave to, or he would run him under water. The captain
mooooo moo mo moooo mo, mo mo moooo moo moo moooo moooo. Moo moooooo

presented a pistol. With one foot on each prow of the yoked war-canoes,
moooooooo m mooooo. Mooo moo mooo mo mooo mooo mo moo moooo moo-mooooo,

the Lakeman laughed him to scorn; assuring him that if the pistol so
moo Moooooo moooooo moo mo moooo; mooooooo moo mooo mo moo mooooo mo

much as clicked in the lock, he would bury him in bubbles and foam.
mooo mo moooooo mo moo mooo, mo moooo mooo moo mo moooooo moo mooo.




"'What do you want of me?' cried the captain.
"'Mooo mo moo mooo mo mo?' moooo moo moooooo.




"'Where are you bound? and for what are you bound?' demanded Steelkilt;
"'Moooo moo moo moooo? moo moo mooo moo moo moooo?' mooooooo Moooooooo;

'no lies.'
'mo mooo.'




"'I am bound to Tahiti for more men.'
"'M mo moooo mo Mooooo moo mooo moo.'




"'Very good. Let me board you a moment--I come in peace.' With that he
"'Mooo mooo. Moo mo moooo moo m mooooo--M mooo mo moooo.' Mooo mooo mo

leaped from the canoe, swam to the boat; and climbing the gunwale, stood
mooooo mooo moo moooo, mooo mo moo mooo; moo mooooooo moo moooooo, moooo

face to face with the captain.
mooo mo mooo mooo moo moooooo.




"'Cross your arms, sir; throw back your head. Now, repeat after me.
"'Moooo mooo mooo, moo; moooo mooo mooo mooo. Moo, mooooo moooo mo.

As soon as Steelkilt leaves me, I swear to beach this boat on yonder
Mo mooo mo Moooooooo mooooo mo, M moooo mo moooo mooo mooo mo mooooo

island, and remain there six days. If I do not, may lightning strike
mooooo, moo mooooo moooo moo mooo. Mo M mo moo, moo moooooooo mooooo

me!'
mo!'




"'A pretty scholar,' laughed the Lakeman. 'Adios, Senor!' and leaping
"'M mooooo moooooo,' moooooo moo Moooooo. 'Moooo, Moooo!' moo moooooo

into the sea, he swam back to his comrades.
mooo moo moo, mo mooo mooo mo moo mooooooo.




"Watching the boat till it was fairly beached, and drawn up to the
"Mooooooo moo mooo mooo mo moo mooooo moooooo, moo moooo mo mo moo

roots of the cocoa-nut trees, Steelkilt made sail again, and in due time
moooo mo moo moooo-moo moooo, Moooooooo mooo mooo moooo, moo mo moo mooo

arrived at Tahiti, his own place of destination. There, luck befriended
moooooo mo Mooooo, moo moo moooo mo moooooooooo. Moooo, mooo mooooooooo

him; two ships were about to sail for France, and were providentially
moo; moo moooo mooo moooo mo mooo moo Mooooo, moo mooo mooooooooooooo

in want of precisely that number of men which the sailor headed. They
mo mooo mo moooooooo mooo mooooo mo moo moooo moo mooooo mooooo. Mooo

embarked; and so for ever got the start of their former captain, had he
mooooooo; moo mo moo mooo moo moo moooo mo moooo mooooo moooooo, moo mo

been at all minded to work them legal retribution.
mooo mo moo mooooo mo mooo mooo moooo moooooooooo.




"Some ten days after the French ships sailed, the whale-boat arrived,
"Mooo moo mooo moooo moo Mooooo moooo mooooo, moo moooo-mooo moooooo,

and the captain was forced to enlist some of the more civilized
moo moo moooooo moo mooooo mo mooooo mooo mo moo mooo moooooooo

Tahitians, who had been somewhat used to the sea. Chartering a small
Moooooooo, moo moo mooo mooooooo mooo mo moo moo. Mooooooooo m moooo

native schooner, he returned with them to his vessel; and finding all
mooooo mooooooo, mo mooooooo mooo mooo mo moo mooooo; moo moooooo moo

right there, again resumed his cruisings.
moooo moooo, moooo moooooo moo moooooooo.




"Where Steelkilt now is, gentlemen, none know; but upon the island of
"Moooo Moooooooo moo mo, moooooooo, mooo mooo; moo mooo moo mooooo mo

Nantucket, the widow of Radney still turns to the sea which refuses
Moooooooo, moo moooo mo Mooooo moooo moooo mo moo moo moooo moooooo

to give up its dead; still in dreams sees the awful white whale that
mo mooo mo moo mooo; moooo mo mooooo mooo moo moooo moooo moooo mooo

destroyed him.
moooooooo moo.




"'Are you through?' said Don Sebastian, quietly.
"'Moo moo moooooo?' mooo Moo Moooooooo, moooooo.




"'I am, Don.'
"'M mo, Moo.'




"'Then I entreat you, tell me if to the best of your own convictions,
"'Mooo M moooooo moo, mooo mo mo mo moo mooo mo mooo moo moooooooooo,

this your story is in substance really true? It is so passing wonderful!
mooo mooo moooo mo mo moooooooo mooooo mooo? Mo mo mo moooooo moooooooo!

Did you get it from an unquestionable source? Bear with me if I seem to
Moo moo moo mo mooo mo mooooooooooooo mooooo? Mooo mooo mo mo M mooo mo

press.'
moooo.'




"'Also bear with all of us, sir sailor; for we all join in Don
"'Mooo mooo mooo moo mo mo, moo mooooo; moo mo moo mooo mo Moo

Sebastian's suit,' cried the company, with exceeding interest.
Moooooooo'm mooo,' moooo moo moooooo, mooo moooooooo mooooooo.




"'Is there a copy of the Holy Evangelists in the Golden Inn, gentlemen?'
"'Mo moooo m mooo mo moo Mooo Moooooooooo mo moo Mooooo Moo, moooooooo?'




"'Nay,' said Don Sebastian; 'but I know a worthy priest near by, who
"'Moo,' mooo Moo Moooooooo; 'moo M mooo m mooooo mooooo mooo mo, moo

will quickly procure one for me. I go for it; but are you well advised?
mooo moooooo moooooo moo moo mo. M mo moo mo; moo moo moo mooo moooooo?

this may grow too serious.'
mooo moo mooo moo moooooo.'




"'Will you be so good as to bring the priest also, Don?'
"'Mooo moo mo mo mooo mo mo moooo moo mooooo mooo, Moo?'




"'Though there are no Auto-da-Fe's in Lima now,' said one of the company
"'Mooooo moooo moo mo Mooo-mo-Mo'm mo Mooo moo,' mooo moo mo moo moooooo

to another; 'I fear our sailor friend runs risk of the archiepiscopacy.
mo moooooo; 'M mooo moo mooooo mooooo mooo mooo mo moo moooooooooooooo.

Let us withdraw more out of the moonlight. I see no need of this.'
Moo mo mooooooo mooo moo mo moo moooooooo. M moo mo mooo mo mooo.'




"'Excuse me for running after you, Don Sebastian; but may I also beg
"'Mooooo mo moo moooooo moooo moo, Moo Moooooooo; moo moo M mooo moo

that you will be particular in procuring the largest sized Evangelists
mooo moo mooo mo mooooooooo mo moooooooo moo moooooo moooo Moooooooooo

you can.'
moo moo.'




"'This is the priest, he brings you the Evangelists,' said Don Sebastian,
"'Mooo mo moo mooooo, mo mooooo moo moo Moooooooooo,' mooo Moo Moooooooo,

gravely, returning with a tall and solemn figure.
moooooo, moooooooo mooo m mooo moo mooooo mooooo.




"'Let me remove my hat. Now, venerable priest, further into the light,
"'Moo mo mooooo mo moo. Moo, moooooooo mooooo, moooooo mooo moo moooo,

and hold the Holy Book before me that I may touch it.
moo mooo moo Mooo Mooo mooooo mo mooo M moo moooo mo.




"'So help me Heaven, and on my honour the story I have told ye,
"'Mo mooo mo Mooooo, moo mo mo mooooo moo moooo M mooo mooo mo,

gentlemen, is in substance and its great items, true. I know it to be
moooooooo, mo mo moooooooo moo moo moooo moooo, mooo. M mooo mo mo mo

true; it happened on this ball; I trod the ship; I knew the crew; I have
mooo; mo mooooooo mo mooo mooo; M mooo moo mooo; M mooo moo mooo; M mooo

seen and talked with Steelkilt since the death of Radney.'"
mooo moo mooooo mooo Moooooooo moooo moo moooo mo Mooooo.'"










CHAPTER 55. Of the Monstrous Pictures of Whales.
MOOOOOO mo. Mo moo Moooooooo Mooooooo mo Mooooo.







I shall ere long paint to you as well as one can without canvas,
M moooo moo mooo moooo mo moo mo mooo mo moo moo moooooo mooooo,

something like the true form of the whale as he actually appears to the
moooooooo mooo moo mooo mooo mo moo moooo mo mo mooooooo moooooo mo moo

eye of the whaleman when in his own absolute body the whale is moored
moo mo moo mooooooo mooo mo moo moo mooooooo mooo moo moooo mo mooooo

alongside the whale-ship so that he can be fairly stepped upon there.
moooooooo moo moooo-mooo mo mooo mo moo mo mooooo moooooo mooo moooo.

It may be worth while, therefore, previously to advert to those
Mo moo mo moooo moooo, moooooooo, mooooooooo mo mooooo mo moooo

curious imaginary portraits of him which even down to the present day
moooooo moooooooo moooooooo mo moo moooo mooo mooo mo moo moooooo moo

confidently challenge the faith of the landsman. It is time to set the
moooooooooo moooooooo moo moooo mo moo mooooooo. Mo mo mooo mo moo moo

world right in this matter, by proving such pictures of the whale all
moooo moooo mo mooo mooooo, mo moooooo mooo mooooooo mo moo moooo moo

wrong.
moooo.




It may be that the primal source of all those pictorial delusions will
Mo moo mo mooo moo mooooo mooooo mo moo moooo moooooooo moooooooo mooo

be found among the oldest Hindoo, Egyptian, and Grecian sculptures. For
mo moooo moooo moo mooooo Mooooo, Mooooooo, moo Moooooo mooooooooo. Moo

ever since those inventive but unscrupulous times when on the marble
mooo moooo moooo moooooooo moo mooooooooooo moooo mooo mo moo mooooo

panellings of temples, the pedestals of statues, and on shields,
mooooooooo mo moooooo, moo moooooooo mo moooooo, moo mo moooooo,

medallions, cups, and coins, the dolphin was drawn in scales of
mooooooooo, mooo, moo moooo, moo moooooo moo moooo mo mooooo mo

chain-armor like Saladin's, and a helmeted head like St. George's; ever
moooo-moooo mooo Moooooo'm, moo m mooooooo mooo mooo Mo. Mooooo'm; mooo

since then has something of the same sort of license prevailed, not
moooo mooo moo moooooooo mo moo mooo mooo mo moooooo moooooooo, moo

only in most popular pictures of the whale, but in many scientific
mooo mo mooo moooooo mooooooo mo moo moooo, moo mo mooo mooooooooo

presentations of him.
moooooooooooo mo moo.




Now, by all odds, the most ancient extant portrait anyways purporting to
Moo, mo moo mooo, moo mooo moooooo mooooo mooooooo moooooo mooooooooo mo

be the whale's, is to be found in the famous cavern-pagoda of Elephanta,
mo moo moooo'm, mo mo mo moooo mo moo mooooo mooooo-mooooo mo Moooooooo,

in India. The Brahmins maintain that in the almost endless sculptures of
mo Moooo. Moo Mooooooo mooooooo mooo mo moo mooooo moooooo mooooooooo mo

that immemorial pagoda, all the trades and pursuits, every conceivable
mooo mooooooooo mooooo, moo moo mooooo moo mooooooo, moooo moooooooooo

avocation of man, were prefigured ages before any of them actually came
moooooooo mo moo, mooo mooooooooo mooo mooooo moo mo mooo mooooooo mooo

into being. No wonder then, that in some sort our noble profession of
mooo moooo. Mo mooooo mooo, mooo mo mooo mooo moo moooo mooooooooo mo

whaling should have been there shadowed forth. The Hindoo whale
moooooo mooooo mooo mooo moooo mooooooo moooo. Moo Mooooo moooo

referred to, occurs in a separate department of the wall, depicting the
mooooooo mo, mooooo mo m mooooooo mooooooooo mo moo mooo, moooooooo moo

incarnation of Vishnu in the form of leviathan, learnedly known as the
moooooooooo mo Mooooo mo moo mooo mo moooooooo, moooooooo moooo mo moo

Matse Avatar. But though this sculpture is half man and half whale, so
Moooo Mooooo. Moo mooooo mooo moooooooo mo mooo moo moo mooo moooo, mo

as only to give the tail of the latter, yet that small section of him is
mo mooo mo mooo moo mooo mo moo mooooo, moo mooo moooo moooooo mo moo mo

all wrong. It looks more like the tapering tail of an anaconda, than the
moo moooo. Mo moooo mooo mooo moo mooooooo mooo mo mo mooooooo, mooo moo

broad palms of the true whale's majestic flukes.
moooo moooo mo moo mooo moooo'm mooooooo mooooo.




But go to the old Galleries, and look now at a great Christian painter's
Moo mo mo moo moo Moooooooo, moo mooo moo mo m moooo Moooooooo moooooo'm

portrait of this fish; for he succeeds no better than the antediluvian
mooooooo mo mooo mooo; moo mo mooooooo mo mooooo mooo moo mooooooooooo

Hindoo. It is Guido's picture of Perseus rescuing Andromeda from the
Mooooo. Mo mo Moooo'm moooooo mo Moooooo mooooooo Moooooooo mooo moo

sea-monster or whale. Where did Guido get the model of such a strange
moo-moooooo mo moooo. Moooo moo Moooo moo moo moooo mo mooo m moooooo

creature as that? Nor does Hogarth, in painting the same scene in his
mooooooo mo mooo? Moo mooo Moooooo, mo mooooooo moo mooo moooo mo moo

own "Perseus Descending," make out one whit better. The huge corpulence
moo "Moooooo Mooooooooo," mooo moo moo mooo mooooo. Moo mooo mooooooooo

of that Hogarthian monster undulates on the surface, scarcely drawing
mo mooo Mooooooooo moooooo moooooooo mo moo moooooo, mooooooo moooooo

one inch of water. It has a sort of howdah on its back, and its
moo mooo mo moooo. Mo moo m mooo mo mooooo mo moo mooo, moo moo

distended tusked mouth into which the billows are rolling, might be
moooooooo mooooo moooo mooo moooo moo moooooo moo moooooo, moooo mo

taken for the Traitors' Gate leading from the Thames by water into the
moooo moo moo Mooooooo' Mooo moooooo mooo moo Mooooo mo moooo mooo moo

Tower. Then, there are the Prodromus whales of old Scotch Sibbald, and
Moooo. Mooo, moooo moo moo Moooooooo mooooo mo moo Mooooo Moooooo, moo

Jonah's whale, as depicted in the prints of old Bibles and the cuts of
Moooo'm moooo, mo mooooooo mo moo mooooo mo moo Mooooo moo moo mooo mo

old primers. What shall be said of these? As for the book-binder's whale
moo moooooo. Mooo moooo mo mooo mo moooo? Mo moo moo mooo-mooooo'm moooo

winding like a vine-stalk round the stock of a descending anchor--as
moooooo mooo m mooo-moooo moooo moo moooo mo m mooooooooo mooooo--mo

stamped and gilded on the backs and title-pages of many books both
moooooo moo mooooo mo moo moooo moo moooo-moooo mo mooo moooo mooo

old and new--that is a very picturesque but purely fabulous creature,
moo moo moo--mooo mo m mooo moooooooooo moo mooooo mooooooo mooooooo,

imitated, I take it, from the like figures on antique vases.
mooooooo, M mooo mo, mooo moo mooo moooooo mo moooooo moooo.

Though universally denominated a dolphin, I nevertheless call this
Mooooo moooooooooo moooooooooo m moooooo, M mooooooooooo mooo mooo

book-binder's fish an attempt at a whale; because it was so intended
mooo-mooooo'm mooo mo moooooo mo m moooo; moooooo mo moo mo mooooooo

when the device was first introduced. It was introduced by an old
mooo moo mooooo moo moooo mooooooooo. Mo moo mooooooooo mo mo moo

Italian publisher somewhere about the 15th century, during the Revival
Moooooo moooooooo moooooooo moooo moo mooo moooooo, mooooo moo Moooooo

of Learning; and in those days, and even down to a comparatively
mo Mooooooo; moo mo moooo mooo, moo mooo mooo mo m moooooooooooo

late period, dolphins were popularly supposed to be a species of the
mooo mooooo, mooooooo mooo moooooooo mooooooo mo mo m moooooo mo moo

Leviathan.
Moooooooo.




In the vignettes and other embellishments of some ancient books you will
Mo moo moooooooo moo moooo mooooooooooooo mo mooo moooooo moooo moo mooo

at times meet with very curious touches at the whale, where all manner
mo moooo mooo mooo mooo moooooo moooooo mo moo moooo, moooo moo mooooo

of spouts, jets d'eau, hot springs and cold, Saratoga and Baden-Baden,
mo mooooo, mooo m'moo, moo moooooo moo mooo, Mooooooo moo Moooo-Moooo,

come bubbling up from his unexhausted brain. In the title-page of the
mooo mooooooo mo mooo moo moooooooooo moooo. Mo moo moooo-mooo mo moo

original edition of the "Advancement of Learning" you will find some
mooooooo moooooo mo moo "Moooooooooo mo Mooooooo" moo mooo mooo mooo

curious whales.
moooooo mooooo.




But quitting all these unprofessional attempts, let us glance at those
Moo mooooooo moo moooo mooooooooooooo mooooooo, moo mo mooooo mo moooo

pictures of leviathan purporting to be sober, scientific delineations,
mooooooo mo moooooooo mooooooooo mo mo moooo, mooooooooo mooooooooooo,

by those who know. In old Harris's collection of voyages there are some
mo moooo moo mooo. Mo moo Mooooo'm mooooooooo mo moooooo moooo moo mooo

plates of whales extracted from a Dutch book of voyages, A.D. 1671,
mooooo mo mooooo moooooooo mooo m Moooo mooo mo moooooo, M.M. mooo,

entitled "A Whaling Voyage to Spitzbergen in the ship Jonas in the
mooooooo "M Moooooo Mooooo mo Moooooooooo mo moo mooo Moooo mo moo

Whale, Peter Peterson of Friesland, master." In one of those plates the
Moooo, Moooo Mooooooo mo Moooooooo, mooooo." Mo moo mo moooo mooooo moo

whales, like great rafts of logs, are represented lying among ice-isles,
mooooo, mooo moooo moooo mo mooo, moo moooooooooo moooo moooo moo-moooo,

with white bears running over their living backs. In another plate, the
mooo moooo moooo moooooo mooo moooo mooooo moooo. Mo moooooo moooo, moo

prodigious blunder is made of representing the whale with perpendicular
mooooooooo moooooo mo mooo mo mooooooooooo moo moooo mooo moooooooooooo

flukes.
mooooo.




Then again, there is an imposing quarto, written by one Captain Colnett,
Mooo moooo, moooo mo mo mooooooo mooooo, moooooo mo moo Moooooo Moooooo,

a Post Captain in the English navy, entitled "A Voyage round Cape Horn
m Mooo Moooooo mo moo Moooooo mooo, mooooooo "M Mooooo moooo Mooo Mooo

into the South Seas, for the purpose of extending the Spermaceti Whale
mooo moo Moooo Mooo, moo moo moooooo mo moooooooo moo Mooooooooo Moooo

Fisheries." In this book is an outline purporting to be a "Picture of
Moooooooo." Mo mooo mooo mo mo moooooo mooooooooo mo mo m "Moooooo mo

a Physeter or Spermaceti whale, drawn by scale from one killed on the
m Mooooooo mo Mooooooooo moooo, moooo mo moooo mooo moo mooooo mo moo

coast of Mexico, August, 1793, and hoisted on deck." I doubt not the
moooo mo Mooooo, Mooooo, mooo, moo moooooo mo mooo." M moooo moo moo

captain had this veracious picture taken for the benefit of his marines.
moooooo moo mooo moooooooo moooooo moooo moo moo moooooo mo moo moooooo.

To mention but one thing about it, let me say that it has an eye which
Mo moooooo moo moo moooo moooo mo, moo mo moo mooo mo moo mo moo moooo

applied, according to the accompanying scale, to a full grown sperm
moooooo, moooooooo mo moo mooooooooooo moooo, mo m mooo moooo moooo

whale, would make the eye of that whale a bow-window some five feet
moooo, moooo mooo moo moo mo mooo moooo m moo-mooooo mooo mooo mooo

long. Ah, my gallant captain, why did ye not give us Jonah looking out
mooo. Mo, mo moooooo moooooo, moo moo mo moo mooo mo Moooo moooooo moo

of that eye!
mo mooo moo!




Nor are the most conscientious compilations of Natural History for
Moo moo moo mooo moooooooooooo mooooooooooo mo Moooooo Moooooo moo

the benefit of the young and tender, free from the same heinousness of
moo moooooo mo moo moooo moo mooooo, mooo mooo moo mooo moooooooooo mo

mistake. Look at that popular work "Goldsmith's Animated Nature." In the
moooooo. Mooo mo mooo moooooo mooo "Moooooooo'm Mooooooo Mooooo." Mo moo

abridged London edition of 1807, there are plates of an alleged "whale"
mooooooo Mooooo moooooo mo mooo, moooo moo mooooo mo mo moooooo "moooo"

and a "narwhale." I do not wish to seem inelegant, but this unsightly
moo m "mooooooo." M mo moo mooo mo mooo moooooooo, moo mooo moooooooo

whale looks much like an amputated sow; and, as for the narwhale, one
moooo moooo mooo mooo mo moooooooo moo; moo, mo moo moo mooooooo, moo

glimpse at it is enough to amaze one, that in this nineteenth century
moooooo mo mo mo mooooo mo moooo moo, mooo mo mooo mooooooooo moooooo

such a hippogriff could be palmed for genuine upon any intelligent
mooo m mooooooooo moooo mo mooooo moo moooooo mooo moo moooooooooo

public of schoolboys.
mooooo mo mooooooooo.




Then, again, in 1825, Bernard Germain, Count de Lacepede, a great
Mooo, moooo, mo mooo, Moooooo Moooooo, Moooo mo Mooooooo, m moooo

naturalist, published a scientific systemized whale book, wherein are
mooooooooo, moooooooo m mooooooooo mooooooooo moooo mooo, moooooo moo

several pictures of the different species of the Leviathan. All these
moooooo mooooooo mo moo moooooooo moooooo mo moo Moooooooo. Moo moooo

are not only incorrect, but the picture of the Mysticetus or Greenland
moo moo mooo moooooooo, moo moo moooooo mo moo Mooooooooo mo Moooooooo

whale (that is to say, the Right whale), even Scoresby, a long
moooo (mooo mo mo moo, moo Moooo moooo), mooo Mooooooo, m mooo

experienced man as touching that species, declares not to have its
moooooooooo moo mo mooooooo mooo moooooo, mooooooo moo mo mooo moo

counterpart in nature.
moooooooooo mo mooooo.




But the placing of the cap-sheaf to all this blundering business was
Moo moo moooooo mo moo moo-moooo mo moo mooo mooooooooo mooooooo moo

reserved for the scientific Frederick Cuvier, brother to the famous
mooooooo moo moo mooooooooo Moooooooo Mooooo, moooooo mo moo mooooo

Baron. In 1836, he published a Natural History of Whales, in which he
Moooo. Mo mooo, mo moooooooo m Moooooo Moooooo mo Mooooo, mo moooo mo

gives what he calls a picture of the Sperm Whale. Before showing that
moooo mooo mo moooo m moooooo mo moo Moooo Moooo. Mooooo moooooo mooo

picture to any Nantucketer, you had best provide for your summary
moooooo mo moo Moooooooooo, moo moo mooo moooooo moo mooo moooooo

retreat from Nantucket. In a word, Frederick Cuvier's Sperm Whale is not
moooooo mooo Moooooooo. Mo m mooo, Moooooooo Mooooo'm Moooo Moooo mo moo

a Sperm Whale, but a squash. Of course, he never had the benefit of
m Moooo Moooo, moo m mooooo. Mo mooooo, mo moooo moo moo moooooo mo

a whaling voyage (such men seldom have), but whence he derived that
m moooooo mooooo (mooo moo mooooo mooo), moo mooooo mo moooooo mooo

picture, who can tell? Perhaps he got it as his scientific predecessor
moooooo, moo moo mooo? Moooooo mo moo mo mo moo mooooooooo moooooooooo

in the same field, Desmarest, got one of his authentic abortions; that
mo moo mooo moooo, Moooooooo, moo moo mo moo moooooooo moooooooo; mooo

is, from a Chinese drawing. And what sort of lively lads with the pencil
mo, mooo m Moooooo moooooo. Moo mooo mooo mo mooooo mooo mooo moo mooooo

those Chinese are, many queer cups and saucers inform us.
moooo Moooooo moo, mooo moooo mooo moo moooooo mooooo mo.




As for the sign-painters' whales seen in the streets hanging over the
Mo moo moo mooo-mooooooo' mooooo mooo mo moo moooooo moooooo mooo moo

shops of oil-dealers, what shall be said of them? They are generally
moooo mo moo-moooooo, mooo moooo mo mooo mo mooo? Mooo moo moooooooo

Richard III. whales, with dromedary humps, and very savage; breakfasting
Moooooo MOO. mooooo, mooo moooooooo moooo, moo mooo mooooo; mooooooooooo

on three or four sailor tarts, that is whaleboats full of mariners:
mo moooo mo mooo mooooo moooo, mooo mo mooooooooo mooo mo mooooooo:

their deformities floundering in seas of blood and blue paint.
moooo moooooooooo moooooooooo mo mooo mo moooo moo mooo moooo.




But these manifold mistakes in depicting the whale are not so very
Moo moooo mooooooo mooooooo mo moooooooo moo moooo moo moo mo mooo

surprising after all. Consider! Most of the scientific drawings have
mooooooooo moooo moo. Mooooooo! Mooo mo moo mooooooooo mooooooo mooo

been taken from the stranded fish; and these are about as correct as a
mooo moooo mooo moo mooooooo mooo; moo moooo moo moooo mo moooooo mo m

drawing of a wrecked ship, with broken back, would correctly represent
moooooo mo m moooooo mooo, mooo mooooo mooo, moooo moooooooo moooooooo

the noble animal itself in all its undashed pride of hull and spars.
moo moooo mooooo mooooo mo moo moo mooooooo moooo mo mooo moo moooo.

Though elephants have stood for their full-lengths, the living Leviathan
Mooooo moooooooo mooo moooo moo moooo mooo-moooooo, moo mooooo Moooooooo

has never yet fairly floated himself for his portrait. The living whale,
moo moooo moo mooooo moooooo moooooo moo moo mooooooo. Moo mooooo moooo,

in his full majesty and significance, is only to be seen at sea in
mo moo mooo moooooo moo mooooooooooo, mo mooo mo mo mooo mo moo mo

unfathomable waters; and afloat the vast bulk of him is out of sight,
mooooooooooo mooooo; moo mooooo moo mooo mooo mo moo mo moo mo moooo,

like a launched line-of-battle ship; and out of that element it is a
mooo m mooooooo mooo-mo-mooooo mooo; moo moo mo mooo moooooo mo mo m

thing eternally impossible for mortal man to hoist him bodily into the
moooo moooooooo mooooooooo moo mooooo moo mo moooo moo mooooo mooo moo

air, so as to preserve all his mighty swells and undulations. And, not
moo, mo mo mo mooooooo moo moo mooooo mooooo moo moooooooooo. Moo, moo

to speak of the highly presumable difference of contour between a young
mo moooo mo moo mooooo mooooooooo mooooooooo mo moooooo moooooo m moooo

sucking whale and a full-grown Platonian Leviathan; yet, even in the
moooooo moooo moo m mooo-moooo Moooooooo Moooooooo; moo, mooo mo moo

case of one of those young sucking whales hoisted to a ship's deck, such
mooo mo moo mo moooo moooo moooooo mooooo moooooo mo m mooo'm mooo, mooo

is then the outlandish, eel-like, limbered, varying shape of him, that
mo mooo moo mooooooooo, moo-mooo, mooooooo, moooooo moooo mo moo, mooo

his precise expression the devil himself could not catch.
moo moooooo mooooooooo moo moooo moooooo moooo moo moooo.




But it may be fancied, that from the naked skeleton of the stranded
Moo mo moo mo moooooo, mooo mooo moo moooo mooooooo mo moo mooooooo

whale, accurate hints may be derived touching his true form. Not at all.
moooo, mooooooo moooo moo mo moooooo mooooooo moo mooo mooo. Moo mo moo.

For it is one of the more curious things about this Leviathan, that
Moo mo mo moo mo moo mooo moooooo mooooo moooo mooo Moooooooo, mooo

his skeleton gives very little idea of his general shape. Though Jeremy
moo mooooooo moooo mooo mooooo mooo mo moo moooooo moooo. Mooooo Mooooo

Bentham's skeleton, which hangs for candelabra in the library of one of
Moooooo'm mooooooo, moooo moooo moo mooooooooo mo moo moooooo mo moo mo

his executors, correctly conveys the idea of a burly-browed utilitarian
moo moooooooo, moooooooo moooooo moo mooo mo m moooo-mooooo moooooooooo

old gentleman, with all Jeremy's other leading personal characteristics;
moo moooooooo, mooo moo Mooooo'm moooo moooooo mooooooo moooooooooooooo;

yet nothing of this kind could be inferred from any leviathan's
moo moooooo mo mooo mooo moooo mo mooooooo mooo moo moooooooo'm

articulated bones. In fact, as the great Hunter says, the mere skeleton
moooooooooo moooo. Mo mooo, mo moo moooo Mooooo mooo, moo mooo mooooooo

of the whale bears the same relation to the fully invested and padded
mo moo moooo moooo moo mooo mooooooo mo moo moooo mooooooo moo mooooo

animal as the insect does to the chrysalis that so roundingly envelopes
mooooo mo moo mooooo mooo mo moo moooooooo mooo mo mooooooooo moooooooo

it. This peculiarity is strikingly evinced in the head, as in some
mo. Mooo moooooooooo mo mooooooooo moooooo mo moo mooo, mo mo mooo

part of this book will be incidentally shown. It is also very curiously
mooo mo mooo mooo mooo mo mooooooooooo moooo. Mo mo mooo mooo moooooooo

displayed in the side fin, the bones of which almost exactly answer to
moooooooo mo moo mooo moo, moo moooo mo moooo mooooo moooooo mooooo mo

the bones of the human hand, minus only the thumb. This fin has four
moo moooo mo moo moooo mooo, moooo mooo moo moooo. Mooo moo moo mooo

regular bone-fingers, the index, middle, ring, and little finger. But
moooooo mooo-moooooo, moo moooo, mooooo, mooo, moo mooooo mooooo. Moo

all these are permanently lodged in their fleshy covering, as the human
moo moooo moo moooooooooo mooooo mo moooo mooooo mooooooo, mo moo moooo

fingers in an artificial covering. "However recklessly the whale may
moooooo mo mo mooooooooo mooooooo. "Moooooo mooooooooo moo moooo moo

sometimes serve us," said humorous Stubb one day, "he can never be truly
moooooooo moooo mo," mooo mooooooo Moooo moo moo, "mo moo moooo mo moooo

said to handle us without mittens."
mooo mo mooooo mo moooooo moooooo."




For all these reasons, then, any way you may look at it, you must needs
Moo moo moooo moooooo, mooo, moo moo moo moo mooo mo mo, moo mooo moooo

conclude that the great Leviathan is that one creature in the world
mooooooo mooo moo moooo Moooooooo mo mooo moo mooooooo mo moo moooo

which must remain unpainted to the last. True, one portrait may hit
moooo mooo mooooo moooooooo mo moo mooo. Mooo, moo mooooooo moo moo

the mark much nearer than another, but none can hit it with any very
moo mooo mooo mooooo mooo moooooo, moo mooo moo moo mo mooo moo mooo

considerable degree of exactness. So there is no earthly way of finding
mooooooooooo mooooo mo moooooooo. Mo moooo mo mo moooooo moo mo moooooo

out precisely what the whale really looks like. And the only mode in
moo moooooooo mooo moo moooo mooooo moooo mooo. Moo moo mooo mooo mo

which you can derive even a tolerable idea of his living contour, is
moooo moo moo mooooo mooo m moooooooo mooo mo moo mooooo moooooo, mo

by going a whaling yourself; but by so doing, you run no small risk of
mo moooo m moooooo mooooooo; moo mo mo moooo, moo moo mo moooo mooo mo

being eternally stove and sunk by him. Wherefore, it seems to me you had
moooo moooooooo moooo moo mooo mo moo. Moooooooo, mo moooo mo mo moo moo

best not be too fastidious in your curiosity touching this Leviathan.
mooo moo mo moo mooooooooo mo mooo moooooooo mooooooo mooo Moooooooo.










CHAPTER 56. Of the Less Erroneous Pictures of Whales, and the True
MOOOOOO mo. Mo moo Mooo Moooooooo Mooooooo mo Mooooo, moo moo Mooo

Pictures of Whaling Scenes.
Mooooooo mo Moooooo Mooooo.







In connexion with the monstrous pictures of whales, I am strongly
Mo moooooooo mooo moo moooooooo mooooooo mo mooooo, M mo mooooooo

tempted here to enter upon those still more monstrous stories of
moooooo mooo mo moooo mooo moooo moooo mooo moooooooo moooooo mo

them which are to be found in certain books, both ancient and modern,
mooo moooo moo mo mo moooo mo moooooo moooo, mooo moooooo moo mooooo,

especially in Pliny, Purchas, Hackluyt, Harris, Cuvier, etc. But I pass
mooooooooo mo Moooo, Moooooo, Mooooooo, Mooooo, Mooooo, moo. Moo M mooo

that matter by.
mooo mooooo mo.




I know of only four published outlines of the great Sperm Whale;
M mooo mo mooo mooo moooooooo mooooooo mo moo moooo Moooo Moooo;

Colnett's, Huggins's, Frederick Cuvier's, and Beale's. In the previous
Moooooo'm, Moooooo'm, Moooooooo Mooooo'm, moo Moooo'm. Mo moo mooooooo

chapter Colnett and Cuvier have been referred to. Huggins's is far
moooooo Moooooo moo Mooooo mooo mooo mooooooo mo. Moooooo'm mo moo

better than theirs; but, by great odds, Beale's is the best. All Beale's
mooooo mooo mooooo; moo, mo moooo mooo, Moooo'm mo moo mooo. Moo Moooo'm

drawings of this whale are good, excepting the middle figure in the
mooooooo mo mooo moooo moo mooo, moooooooo moo mooooo mooooo mo moo

picture of three whales in various attitudes, capping his second
moooooo mo moooo mooooo mo moooooo moooooooo, moooooo moo mooooo

chapter. His frontispiece, boats attacking Sperm Whales, though no
moooooo. Moo mooooooooooo, moooo moooooooo Moooo Mooooo, mooooo mo

doubt calculated to excite the civil scepticism of some parlor men, is
moooo mooooooooo mo mooooo moo moooo mooooooooo mo mooo mooooo moo, mo

admirably correct and life-like in its general effect. Some of the Sperm
moooooooo moooooo moo mooo-mooo mo moo moooooo mooooo. Mooo mo moo Moooo

Whale drawings in J. Ross Browne are pretty correct in contour; but they
Moooo mooooooo mo M. Mooo Mooooo moo mooooo moooooo mo moooooo; moo mooo

are wretchedly engraved. That is not his fault though.
moo mooooooooo mooooooo. Mooo mo moo moo moooo mooooo.




Of the Right Whale, the best outline pictures are in Scoresby; but they
Mo moo Moooo Moooo, moo mooo moooooo mooooooo moo mo Mooooooo; moo mooo

are drawn on too small a scale to convey a desirable impression. He has
moo moooo mo moo moooo m moooo mo mooooo m moooooooo mooooooooo. Mo moo

but one picture of whaling scenes, and this is a sad deficiency, because
moo moo moooooo mo moooooo mooooo, moo mooo mo m moo mooooooooo, moooooo

it is by such pictures only, when at all well done, that you can derive
mo mo mo mooo mooooooo mooo, mooo mo moo mooo mooo, mooo moo moo mooooo

anything like a truthful idea of the living whale as seen by his living
mooooooo mooo m mooooooo mooo mo moo mooooo moooo mo mooo mo moo mooooo

hunters.
moooooo.




But, taken for all in all, by far the finest, though in some details
Moo, moooo moo moo mo moo, mo moo moo mooooo, mooooo mo mooo moooooo

not the most correct, presentations of whales and whaling scenes to
moo moo mooo moooooo, moooooooooooo mo mooooo moo moooooo mooooo mo

be anywhere found, are two large French engravings, well executed,
mo mooooooo moooo, moo moo moooo Mooooo mooooooooo, mooo mooooooo,

and taken from paintings by one Garnery. Respectively, they represent
moo moooo mooo moooooooo mo moo Moooooo. Mooooooooooo, mooo moooooooo

attacks on the Sperm and Right Whale. In the first engraving a noble
moooooo mo moo Moooo moo Moooo Moooo. Mo moo moooo moooooooo m moooo

Sperm Whale is depicted in full majesty of might, just risen beneath
Moooo Moooo mo mooooooo mo mooo moooooo mo moooo, mooo moooo moooooo

the boat from the profundities of the ocean, and bearing high in the air
moo mooo mooo moo mooooooooooo mo moo moooo, moo moooooo mooo mo moo moo

upon his back the terrific wreck of the stoven planks. The prow of
mooo moo mooo moo mooooooo moooo mo moo mooooo mooooo. Moo mooo mo

the boat is partially unbroken, and is drawn just balancing upon
moo mooo mo moooooooo mooooooo, moo mo moooo mooo moooooooo mooo

the monster's spine; and standing in that prow, for that one single
moo moooooo'm moooo; moo mooooooo mo mooo mooo, moo mooo moo mooooo

incomputable flash of time, you behold an oarsman, half shrouded by the
mooooooooooo moooo mo mooo, moo mooooo mo moooooo, mooo mooooooo mo moo

incensed boiling spout of the whale, and in the act of leaping, as if
mooooooo moooooo moooo mo moo moooo, moo mo moo moo mo moooooo, mo mo

from a precipice. The action of the whole thing is wonderfully good and
mooo m moooooooo. Moo mooooo mo moo moooo moooo mo moooooooooo mooo moo

true. The half-emptied line-tub floats on the whitened sea; the wooden
mooo. Moo mooo-moooooo mooo-moo mooooo mo moo mooooooo moo; moo mooooo

poles of the spilled harpoons obliquely bob in it; the heads of the
moooo mo moo moooooo mooooooo moooooooo moo mo mo; moo moooo mo moo

swimming crew are scattered about the whale in contrasting expressions
mooooooo mooo moo moooooooo moooo moo moooo mo moooooooooo moooooooooo

of affright; while in the black stormy distance the ship is bearing down
mo mooooooo; moooo mo moo moooo mooooo mooooooo moo mooo mo moooooo mooo

upon the scene. Serious fault might be found with the anatomical details
mooo moo moooo. Moooooo moooo moooo mo moooo mooo moo mooooooooo moooooo

of this whale, but let that pass; since, for the life of me, I could not
mo mooo moooo, moo moo mooo mooo; moooo, moo moo mooo mo mo, M moooo moo

draw so good a one.
mooo mo mooo m moo.




In the second engraving, the boat is in the act of drawing alongside
Mo moo mooooo moooooooo, moo mooo mo mo moo moo mo moooooo moooooooo

the barnacled flank of a large running Right Whale, that rolls his black
moo moooooooo moooo mo m moooo moooooo Moooo Moooo, mooo moooo moo moooo

weedy bulk in the sea like some mossy rock-slide from the Patagonian
moooo mooo mo moo moo mooo mooo moooo mooo-moooo mooo moo Mooooooooo

cliffs. His jets are erect, full, and black like soot; so that from so
mooooo. Moo mooo moo moooo, mooo, moo moooo mooo mooo; mo mooo mooo mo

abounding a smoke in the chimney, you would think there must be a brave
moooooooo m moooo mo moo moooooo, moo moooo moooo moooo mooo mo m moooo

supper cooking in the great bowels below. Sea fowls are pecking at the
mooooo moooooo mo moo moooo mooooo moooo. Moo moooo moo moooooo mo moo

small crabs, shell-fish, and other sea candies and maccaroni, which the
moooo moooo, moooo-mooo, moo moooo moo moooooo moo moooooooo, moooo moo

Right Whale sometimes carries on his pestilent back. And all the while
Moooo Moooo moooooooo moooooo mo moo moooooooo mooo. Moo moo moo moooo

the thick-lipped leviathan is rushing through the deep, leaving tons of
moo moooo-mooooo moooooooo mo moooooo moooooo moo mooo, moooooo mooo mo

tumultuous white curds in his wake, and causing the slight boat to rock
mooooooooo moooo moooo mo moo mooo, moo moooooo moo mooooo mooo mo mooo

in the swells like a skiff caught nigh the paddle-wheels of an ocean
mo moo mooooo mooo m moooo mooooo mooo moo mooooo-mooooo mo mo moooo

steamer. Thus, the foreground is all raging commotion; but behind, in
moooooo. Mooo, moo mooooooooo mo moo mooooo moooooooo; moo mooooo, mo

admirable artistic contrast, is the glassy level of a sea becalmed, the
moooooooo mooooooo mooooooo, mo moo mooooo moooo mo m moo mooooooo, moo

drooping unstarched sails of the powerless ship, and the inert mass of
mooooooo mooooooooo moooo mo moo moooooooo mooo, moo moo moooo mooo mo

a dead whale, a conquered fortress, with the flag of capture lazily
m mooo moooo, m moooooooo mooooooo, mooo moo mooo mo moooooo mooooo

hanging from the whale-pole inserted into his spout-hole.
moooooo mooo moo moooo-mooo mooooooo mooo moo moooo-mooo.




Who Garnery the painter is, or was, I know not. But my life for it he
Moo Moooooo moo moooooo mo, mo moo, M mooo moo. Moo mo mooo moo mo mo

was either practically conversant with his subject, or else marvellously
moo mooooo moooooooooo mooooooooo mooo moo moooooo, mo mooo mooooooooooo

tutored by some experienced whaleman. The French are the lads for
moooooo mo mooo moooooooooo mooooooo. Moo Mooooo moo moo mooo moo

painting action. Go and gaze upon all the paintings of Europe, and
mooooooo mooooo. Mo moo mooo mooo moo moo moooooooo mo Mooooo, moo

where will you find such a gallery of living and breathing commotion
moooo mooo moo mooo mooo m moooooo mo mooooo moo moooooooo moooooooo

on canvas, as in that triumphal hall at Versailles; where the beholder
mo mooooo, mo mo mooo moooooooo mooo mo Mooooooooo; moooo moo mooooooo

fights his way, pell-mell, through the consecutive great battles of
mooooo moo moo, mooo-mooo, moooooo moo moooooooooo moooo moooooo mo

France; where every sword seems a flash of the Northern Lights, and the
Mooooo; moooo moooo moooo moooo m moooo mo moo Mooooooo Mooooo, moo moo

successive armed kings and Emperors dash by, like a charge of crowned
mooooooooo moooo moooo moo Mooooooo mooo mo, mooo m mooooo mo moooooo

centaurs? Not wholly unworthy of a place in that gallery, are these sea
mooooooo? Moo mooooo mooooooo mo m moooo mo mooo moooooo, moo moooo moo

battle-pieces of Garnery.
mooooo-mooooo mo Moooooo.




The natural aptitude of the French for seizing the picturesqueness of
Moo moooooo mooooooo mo moo Mooooo moo moooooo moo moooooooooooooo mo

things seems to be peculiarly evinced in what paintings and engravings
mooooo moooo mo mo mooooooooo moooooo mo mooo moooooooo moo mooooooooo

they have of their whaling scenes. With not one tenth of England's
mooo mooo mo moooo moooooo mooooo. Mooo moo moo moooo mo Moooooo'm

experience in the fishery, and not the thousandth part of that of the
mooooooooo mo moo moooooo, moo moo moo mooooooooo mooo mo mooo mo moo

Americans, they have nevertheless furnished both nations with the only
Moooooooo, mooo mooo mooooooooooo moooooooo mooo moooooo mooo moo mooo

finished sketches at all capable of conveying the real spirit of
mooooooo mooooooo mo moo moooooo mo moooooooo moo mooo mooooo mo

the whale hunt. For the most part, the English and American whale
moo moooo mooo. Moo moo mooo mooo, moo Moooooo moo Mooooooo moooo

draughtsmen seem entirely content with presenting the mechanical outline
moooooooooo mooo mooooooo moooooo mooo mooooooooo moo mooooooooo moooooo

of things, such as the vacant profile of the whale; which, so far as
mo mooooo, mooo mo moo mooooo moooooo mo moo moooo; moooo, mo moo mo

picturesqueness of effect is concerned, is about tantamount to sketching
moooooooooooooo mo mooooo mo moooooooo, mo moooo mooooooooo mo moooooooo

the profile of a pyramid. Even Scoresby, the justly renowned Right
moo moooooo mo m moooooo. Mooo Mooooooo, moo mooooo mooooooo Moooo

whaleman, after giving us a stiff full length of the Greenland whale,
mooooooo, moooo mooooo mo m moooo mooo mooooo mo moo Moooooooo moooo,

and three or four delicate miniatures of narwhales and porpoises, treats
moo moooo mo mooo mooooooo mooooooooo mo moooooooo moo moooooooo, mooooo

us to a series of classical engravings of boat hooks, chopping knives,
mo mo m mooooo mo moooooooo mooooooooo mo mooo moooo, mooooooo mooooo,

and grapnels; and with the microscopic diligence of a Leuwenhoeck
moo mooooooo; moo mooo moo moooooooooo moooooooo mo m Moooooooooo

submits to the inspection of a shivering world ninety-six fac-similes of
moooooo mo moo mooooooooo mo m moooooooo moooo mooooo-moo moo-moooooo mo

magnified Arctic snow crystals. I mean no disparagement to the excellent
moooooooo Mooooo mooo mooooooo. M mooo mo moooooooooooo mo moo moooooooo

voyager (I honour him for a veteran), but in so important a matter it
moooooo (M mooooo moo moo m moooooo), moo mo mo moooooooo m mooooo mo

was certainly an oversight not to have procured for every crystal a
moo moooooooo mo moooooooo moo mo mooo mooooooo moo moooo moooooo m

sworn affidavit taken before a Greenland Justice of the Peace.
moooo moooooooo moooo mooooo m Moooooooo Moooooo mo moo Moooo.




In addition to those fine engravings from Garnery, there are two other
Mo mooooooo mo moooo mooo mooooooooo mooo Moooooo, moooo moo moo moooo

French engravings worthy of note, by some one who subscribes himself
Mooooo mooooooooo mooooo mo mooo, mo mooo moo moo mooooooooo moooooo

"H. Durand." One of them, though not precisely adapted to our present
"M. Mooooo." Moo mo mooo, mooooo moo moooooooo moooooo mo moo moooooo

purpose, nevertheless deserves mention on other accounts. It is a quiet
moooooo, mooooooooooo mooooooo moooooo mo moooo mooooooo. Mo mo m moooo

noon-scene among the isles of the Pacific; a French whaler anchored,
mooo-moooo moooo moo moooo mo moo Moooooo; m Mooooo mooooo mooooooo,

inshore, in a calm, and lazily taking water on board; the loosened sails
moooooo, mo m mooo, moo mooooo mooooo moooo mo moooo; moo mooooooo moooo

of the ship, and the long leaves of the palms in the background, both
mo moo mooo, moo moo mooo mooooo mo moo moooo mo moo mooooooooo, mooo

drooping together in the breezeless air. The effect is very fine, when
mooooooo mooooooo mo moo mooooooooo moo. Moo mooooo mo mooo mooo, mooo

considered with reference to its presenting the hardy fishermen under
mooooooooo mooo moooooooo mo moo mooooooooo moo moooo moooooooo moooo

one of their few aspects of oriental repose. The other engraving is
moo mo moooo moo moooooo mo mooooooo mooooo. Moo moooo moooooooo mo

quite a different affair: the ship hove-to upon the open sea, and in the
moooo m moooooooo mooooo: moo mooo mooo-mo mooo moo mooo moo, moo mo moo

very heart of the Leviathanic life, with a Right Whale alongside; the
mooo moooo mo moo Moooooooooo mooo, mooo m Moooo Moooo moooooooo; moo

vessel (in the act of cutting-in) hove over to the monster as if to a
mooooo (mo moo moo mo moooooo-mo) mooo mooo mo moo moooooo mo mo mo m

quay; and a boat, hurriedly pushing off from this scene of activity, is
mooo; moo m mooo, moooooooo moooooo moo mooo mooo moooo mo mooooooo, mo

about giving chase to whales in the distance. The harpoons and lances
moooo mooooo moooo mo mooooo mo moo mooooooo. Moo mooooooo moo mooooo

lie levelled for use; three oarsmen are just setting the mast in its
moo mooooooo moo moo; moooo moooooo moo mooo moooooo moo mooo mo moo

hole; while from a sudden roll of the sea, the little craft stands
mooo; moooo mooo m mooooo mooo mo moo moo, moo mooooo moooo mooooo

half-erect out of the water, like a rearing horse. From the ship, the
mooo-moooo moo mo moo moooo, mooo m moooooo moooo. Mooo moo mooo, moo

smoke of the torments of the boiling whale is going up like the smoke
moooo mo moo mooooooo mo moo moooooo moooo mo moooo mo mooo moo moooo

over a village of smithies; and to windward, a black cloud, rising up
mooo m moooooo mo mooooooo; moo mo mooooooo, m moooo moooo, mooooo mo

with earnest of squalls and rains, seems to quicken the activity of the
mooo moooooo mo moooooo moo moooo, moooo mo moooooo moo mooooooo mo moo

excited seamen.
moooooo mooooo.










CHAPTER 57. Of Whales in Paint; in Teeth; in Wood; in Sheet-Iron; in
MOOOOOO mo. Mo Mooooo mo Moooo; mo Moooo; mo Mooo; mo Moooo-Mooo; mo

Stone; in Mountains; in Stars.
Moooo; mo Moooooooo; mo Moooo.







On Tower-hill, as you go down to the London docks, you may have seen a
Mo Moooo-mooo, mo moo mo mooo mo moo Mooooo moooo, moo moo mooo mooo m

crippled beggar (or KEDGER, as the sailors say) holding a painted board
mooooooo mooooo (mo MOOOOO, mo moo moooooo moo) moooooo m moooooo moooo

before him, representing the tragic scene in which he lost his leg.
mooooo moo, mooooooooooo moo mooooo moooo mo moooo mo mooo moo moo.

There are three whales and three boats; and one of the boats (presumed
Moooo moo moooo mooooo moo moooo moooo; moo moo mo moo moooo (mooooooo

to contain the missing leg in all its original integrity) is being
mo moooooo moo moooooo moo mo moo moo mooooooo moooooooo) mo moooo

crunched by the jaws of the foremost whale. Any time these ten years,
mooooooo mo moo mooo mo moo mooooooo moooo. Moo mooo moooo moo moooo,

they tell me, has that man held up that picture, and exhibited that
mooo mooo mo, moo mooo moo mooo mo mooo moooooo, moo moooooooo mooo

stump to an incredulous world. But the time of his justification has
moooo mo mo moooooooooo moooo. Moo moo mooo mo moo moooooooooooo moo

now come. His three whales are as good whales as were ever published in
moo mooo. Moo moooo mooooo moo mo mooo mooooo mo mooo mooo moooooooo mo

Wapping, at any rate; and his stump as unquestionable a stump as any you
Moooooo, mo moo mooo; moo moo moooo mo mooooooooooooo m moooo mo moo moo

will find in the western clearings. But, though for ever mounted on
mooo mooo mo moo moooooo moooooooo. Moo, mooooo moo mooo moooooo mo

that stump, never a stump-speech does the poor whaleman make; but, with
mooo moooo, moooo m moooo-mooooo mooo moo mooo mooooooo mooo; moo, mooo

downcast eyes, stands ruefully contemplating his own amputation.
mooooooo mooo, mooooo mooooooo moooooooooooo moo moo mooooooooo.




Throughout the Pacific, and also in Nantucket, and New Bedford, and
Mooooooooo moo Moooooo, moo mooo mo Moooooooo, moo Moo Moooooo, moo

Sag Harbor, you will come across lively sketches of whales and
Moo Mooooo, moo mooo mooo mooooo mooooo mooooooo mo mooooo moo

whaling-scenes, graven by the fishermen themselves on Sperm Whale-teeth,
moooooo-mooooo, mooooo mo moo moooooooo mooooooooo mo Moooo Moooo-moooo,

or ladies' busks wrought out of the Right Whale-bone, and other
mo mooooo' moooo moooooo moo mo moo Moooo Moooo-mooo, moo moooo

like skrimshander articles, as the whalemen call the numerous little
mooo mooooooooooo mooooooo, mo moo mooooooo mooo moo mooooooo mooooo

ingenious contrivances they elaborately carve out of the rough material,
moooooooo mooooooooooo mooo moooooooooo moooo moo mo moo moooo mooooooo,

in their hours of ocean leisure. Some of them have little boxes
mo moooo moooo mo moooo moooooo. Mooo mo mooo mooo mooooo moooo

of dentistical-looking implements, specially intended for the
mo moooooooooo-moooooo mooooooooo, moooooooo mooooooo moo moo

skrimshandering business. But, in general, they toil with their
moooooooooooooo mooooooo. Moo, mo moooooo, mooo mooo mooo moooo

jack-knives alone; and, with that almost omnipotent tool of the sailor,
mooo-mooooo moooo; moo, mooo mooo mooooo mooooooooo mooo mo moo mooooo,

they will turn you out anything you please, in the way of a mariner's
mooo mooo mooo moo moo mooooooo moo mooooo, mo moo moo mo m moooooo'm

fancy.
moooo.




Long exile from Christendom and civilization inevitably restores a man
Mooo moooo mooo Moooooooooo moo mooooooooooo mooooooooo mooooooo m moo

to that condition in which God placed him, i.e. what is called savagery.
mo mooo moooooooo mo moooo Moo mooooo moo, m.m. mooo mo mooooo mooooooo.

Your true whale-hunter is as much a savage as an Iroquois. I myself am a
Mooo mooo moooo-mooooo mo mo mooo m mooooo mo mo Mooooooo. M mooooo mo m

savage, owning no allegiance but to the King of the Cannibals; and ready
mooooo, mooooo mo mooooooooo moo mo moo Mooo mo moo Moooooooo; moo moooo

at any moment to rebel against him.
mo moo mooooo mo moooo moooooo moo.




Now, one of the peculiar characteristics of the savage in his domestic
Moo, moo mo moo mooooooo moooooooooooooo mo moo mooooo mo moo mooooooo

hours, is his wonderful patience of industry. An ancient Hawaiian
moooo, mo moo moooooooo mooooooo mo mooooooo. Mo moooooo Mooooooo

war-club or spear-paddle, in its full multiplicity and elaboration of
moo-mooo mo moooo-mooooo, mo moo mooo mooooooooooo moo moooooooooo mo

carving, is as great a trophy of human perseverance as a Latin lexicon.
moooooo, mo mo moooo m mooooo mo moooo mooooooooooo mo m Moooo moooooo.

For, with but a bit of broken sea-shell or a shark's tooth, that
Moo, mooo moo m moo mo mooooo moo-moooo mo m moooo'm moooo, mooo

miraculous intricacy of wooden net-work has been achieved; and it has
mooooooooo moooooooo mo mooooo moo-mooo moo mooo mooooooo; moo mo moo

cost steady years of steady application.
mooo mooooo moooo mo mooooo moooooooooo.




As with the Hawaiian savage, so with the white sailor-savage. With the
Mo mooo moo Mooooooo mooooo, mo mooo moo moooo mooooo-mooooo. Mooo moo

same marvellous patience, and with the same single shark's tooth, of
mooo mooooooooo mooooooo, moo mooo moo mooo mooooo moooo'm moooo, mo

his one poor jack-knife, he will carve you a bit of bone sculpture, not
moo moo mooo mooo-moooo, mo mooo moooo moo m moo mo mooo moooooooo, moo

quite as workmanlike, but as close packed in its maziness of design,
moooo mo moooooooooo, moo mo moooo mooooo mo moo mooooooo mo mooooo,

as the Greek savage, Achilles's shield; and full of barbaric spirit
mo moo Moooo mooooo, Mooooooo'm mooooo; moo mooo mo mooooooo mooooo

and suggestiveness, as the prints of that fine old Dutch savage, Albert
moo mooooooooooooo, mo moo mooooo mo mooo mooo moo Moooo mooooo, Mooooo

Durer.
Moooo.




Wooden whales, or whales cut in profile out of the small dark slabs of
Mooooo mooooo, mo mooooo moo mo moooooo moo mo moo moooo mooo moooo mo

the noble South Sea war-wood, are frequently met with in the forecastles
moo moooo Moooo Moo moo-mooo, moo mooooooooo moo mooo mo moo moooooooooo

of American whalers. Some of them are done with much accuracy.
mo Mooooooo moooooo. Mooo mo mooo moo mooo mooo mooo mooooooo.




At some old gable-roofed country houses you will see brass whales hung
Mo mooo moo moooo-mooooo moooooo mooooo moo mooo moo moooo mooooo mooo

by the tail for knockers to the road-side door. When the porter is
mo moo mooo moo mooooooo mo moo mooo-mooo mooo. Mooo moo mooooo mo

sleepy, the anvil-headed whale would be best. But these knocking
mooooo, moo moooo-mooooo moooo moooo mo mooo. Moo moooo mooooooo

whales are seldom remarkable as faithful essays. On the spires of some
mooooo moo mooooo mooooooooo mo mooooooo mooooo. Mo moo mooooo mo mooo

old-fashioned churches you will see sheet-iron whales placed there for
moo-moooooooo mooooooo moo mooo moo moooo-mooo mooooo mooooo moooo moo

weather-cocks; but they are so elevated, and besides that are to all
moooooo-moooo; moo mooo moo mo mooooooo, moo moooooo mooo moo mo moo

intents and purposes so labelled with "HANDS OFF!" you cannot examine
moooooo moo mooooooo mo mooooooo mooo "MOOOO MOO!" moo mooooo moooooo

them closely enough to decide upon their merit.
mooo moooooo mooooo mo mooooo mooo moooo moooo.




In bony, ribby regions of the earth, where at the base of high broken
Mo mooo, moooo moooooo mo moo moooo, moooo mo moo mooo mo mooo mooooo

cliffs masses of rock lie strewn in fantastic groupings upon the
mooooo mooooo mo mooo moo mooooo mo moooooooo moooooooo mooo moo

plain, you will often discover images as of the petrified forms of the
moooo, moo mooo moooo mooooooo mooooo mo mo moo moooooooo moooo mo moo

Leviathan partly merged in grass, which of a windy day breaks against
Moooooooo mooooo mooooo mo moooo, moooo mo m moooo moo mooooo moooooo

them in a surf of green surges.
mooo mo m mooo mo moooo mooooo.




Then, again, in mountainous countries where the traveller is continually
Mooo, moooo, mo moooooooooo moooooooo moooo moo moooooooo mo moooooooooo

girdled by amphitheatrical heights; here and there from some lucky
moooooo mo moooooooooooooo moooooo; mooo moo moooo mooo mooo moooo

point of view you will catch passing glimpses of the profiles of
moooo mo mooo moo mooo moooo moooooo mooooooo mo moo mooooooo mo

whales defined along the undulating ridges. But you must be a thorough
mooooo moooooo moooo moo mooooooooo mooooo. Moo moo mooo mo m mooooooo

whaleman, to see these sights; and not only that, but if you wish
mooooooo, mo moo moooo mooooo; moo moo mooo mooo, moo mo moo mooo

to return to such a sight again, you must be sure and take the exact
mo mooooo mo mooo m moooo moooo, moo mooo mo mooo moo mooo moo moooo

intersecting latitude and longitude of your first stand-point, else
mooooooooooo mooooooo moo moooooooo mo mooo moooo moooo-moooo, mooo

so chance-like are such observations of the hills, that your precise,
mo mooooo-mooo moo mooo mooooooooooo mo moo moooo, mooo mooo moooooo,

previous stand-point would require a laborious re-discovery; like the
mooooooo moooo-moooo moooo moooooo m moooooooo mo-moooooooo; mooo moo

Soloma Islands, which still remain incognita, though once high-ruffed
Mooooo Moooooo, moooo moooo mooooo moooooooo, mooooo mooo mooo-mooooo

Mendanna trod them and old Figuera chronicled them.
Mooooooo mooo mooo moo moo Moooooo mooooooooo mooo.




Nor when expandingly lifted by your subject, can you fail to trace out
Moo mooo moooooooooo mooooo mo mooo moooooo, moo moo mooo mo moooo moo

great whales in the starry heavens, and boats in pursuit of them; as
moooo mooooo mo moo mooooo moooooo, moo moooo mo moooooo mo mooo; mo

when long filled with thoughts of war the Eastern nations saw armies
mooo mooo mooooo mooo mooooooo mo moo moo Moooooo moooooo moo mooooo

locked in battle among the clouds. Thus at the North have I chased
mooooo mo mooooo moooo moo mooooo. Mooo mo moo Moooo mooo M mooooo

Leviathan round and round the Pole with the revolutions of the bright
Moooooooo moooo moo moooo moo Mooo mooo moo moooooooooo mo moo mooooo

points that first defined him to me. And beneath the effulgent Antarctic
mooooo mooo moooo moooooo moo mo mo. Moo moooooo moo moooooooo Moooooooo

skies I have boarded the Argo-Navis, and joined the chase against the
moooo M mooo moooooo moo Mooo-Moooo, moo mooooo moo moooo moooooo moo

starry Cetus far beyond the utmost stretch of Hydrus and the Flying
mooooo Moooo moo mooooo moo mooooo moooooo mo Mooooo moo moo Mooooo

Fish.
Mooo.




With a frigate's anchors for my bridle-bitts and fasces of harpoons for
Mooo m moooooo'm moooooo moo mo mooooo-moooo moo mooooo mo mooooooo moo

spurs, would I could mount that whale and leap the topmost skies, to
moooo, moooo M moooo moooo mooo moooo moo mooo moo moooooo moooo, mo

see whether the fabled heavens with all their countless tents really lie
moo moooooo moo mooooo moooooo mooo moo moooo moooooooo moooo mooooo moo

encamped beyond my mortal sight!
mooooooo mooooo mo mooooo moooo!










CHAPTER 58. Brit.
MOOOOOO mo. Mooo.







Steering north-eastward from the Crozetts, we fell in with vast meadows
Mooooooo moooo-mooooooo mooo moo Mooooooo, mo mooo mo mooo mooo moooooo

of brit, the minute, yellow substance, upon which the Right Whale
mo mooo, moo mooooo, mooooo moooooooo, mooo moooo moo Moooo Moooo

largely feeds. For leagues and leagues it undulated round us, so that we
moooooo moooo. Moo moooooo moo moooooo mo moooooooo moooo mo, mo mooo mo

seemed to be sailing through boundless fields of ripe and golden wheat.
mooooo mo mo moooooo moooooo moooooooo mooooo mo mooo moo mooooo moooo.




On the second day, numbers of Right Whales were seen, who, secure from
Mo moo mooooo moo, moooooo mo Moooo Mooooo mooo mooo, moo, mooooo mooo

the attack of a Sperm Whaler like the Pequod, with open jaws sluggishly
moo mooooo mo m Moooo Mooooo mooo moo Mooooo, mooo mooo mooo mooooooooo

swam through the brit, which, adhering to the fringing fibres of that
mooo moooooo moo mooo, moooo, mooooooo mo moo mooooooo mooooo mo mooo

wondrous Venetian blind in their mouths, was in that manner separated
mooooooo Mooooooo moooo mo moooo mooooo, moo mo mooo mooooo moooooooo

from the water that escaped at the lip.
mooo moo moooo mooo moooooo mo moo moo.




As morning mowers, who side by side slowly and seethingly advance
Mo moooooo mooooo, moo mooo mo mooo mooooo moo mooooooooo moooooo

their scythes through the long wet grass of marshy meads; even so these
moooo moooooo moooooo moo mooo moo moooo mo mooooo moooo; mooo mo moooo

monsters swam, making a strange, grassy, cutting sound; and leaving
mooooooo mooo, mooooo m moooooo, mooooo, moooooo moooo; moo moooooo

behind them endless swaths of blue upon the yellow sea.*
mooooo mooo moooooo mooooo mo mooo mooo moo mooooo moo.*







*That part of the sea known among whalemen as the "Brazil Banks" does
*Mooo mooo mo moo moo moooo moooo mooooooo mo moo "Mooooo Moooo" mooo

not bear that name as the Banks of Newfoundland do, because of there
moo mooo mooo mooo mo moo Moooo mo Mooooooooooo mo, moooooo mo moooo

being shallows and soundings there, but because of this remarkable
moooo mooooooo moo moooooooo moooo, moo moooooo mo mooo mooooooooo

meadow-like appearance, caused by the vast drifts of brit continually
mooooo-mooo mooooooooo, mooooo mo moo mooo mooooo mo mooo moooooooooo

floating in those latitudes, where the Right Whale is often chased.
mooooooo mo moooo moooooooo, moooo moo Moooo Moooo mo moooo mooooo.







But it was only the sound they made as they parted the brit which at all
Moo mo moo mooo moo moooo mooo mooo mo mooo mooooo moo mooo moooo mo moo

reminded one of mowers. Seen from the mast-heads, especially when they
mooooooo moo mo mooooo. Mooo mooo moo mooo-moooo, mooooooooo mooo mooo

paused and were stationary for a while, their vast black forms looked
mooooo moo mooo mooooooooo moo m moooo, moooo mooo moooo moooo mooooo

more like lifeless masses of rock than anything else. And as in the
mooo mooo mooooooo mooooo mo mooo mooo mooooooo mooo. Moo mo mo moo

great hunting countries of India, the stranger at a distance will
moooo moooooo moooooooo mo Moooo, moo mooooooo mo m mooooooo mooo

sometimes pass on the plains recumbent elephants without knowing them
moooooooo mooo mo moo mooooo moooooooo moooooooo moooooo moooooo mooo

to be such, taking them for bare, blackened elevations of the soil; even
mo mo mooo, mooooo mooo moo mooo, moooooooo mooooooooo mo moo mooo; mooo

so, often, with him, who for the first time beholds this species of the
mo, moooo, mooo moo, moo moo moo moooo mooo moooooo mooo moooooo mo moo

leviathans of the sea. And even when recognised at last, their immense
mooooooooo mo moo moo. Moo mooo mooo mooooooooo mo mooo, moooo moooooo

magnitude renders it very hard really to believe that such bulky masses
moooooooo moooooo mo mooo mooo mooooo mo moooooo mooo mooo moooo mooooo

of overgrowth can possibly be instinct, in all parts, with the same sort
mo mooooooooo moo mooooooo mo mooooooo, mo moo moooo, mooo moo mooo mooo

of life that lives in a dog or a horse.
mo mooo mooo moooo mo m moo mo m moooo.




Indeed, in other respects, you can hardly regard any creatures of the
Mooooo, mo moooo mooooooo, moo moo mooooo mooooo moo moooooooo mo moo

deep with the same feelings that you do those of the shore. For though
mooo mooo moo mooo mooooooo mooo moo mo moooo mo moo moooo. Moo mooooo

some old naturalists have maintained that all creatures of the land are
mooo moo moooooooooo mooo mooooooooo mooo moo moooooooo mo moo mooo moo

of their kind in the sea; and though taking a broad general view of
mo moooo mooo mo moo moo; moo mooooo mooooo m moooo moooooo mooo mo

the thing, this may very well be; yet coming to specialties, where, for
moo moooo, mooo moo mooo mooo mo; moo mooooo mo moooooooooo, moooo, moo

example, does the ocean furnish any fish that in disposition answers to
moooooo, mooo moo moooo moooooo moo mooo mooo mo moooooooooo moooooo mo

the sagacious kindness of the dog? The accursed shark alone can in any
moo moooooooo mooooooo mo moo moo? Moo mooooooo moooo moooo moo mo moo

generic respect be said to bear comparative analogy to him.
moooooo moooooo mo mooo mo mooo moooooooooo moooooo mo moo.




But though, to landsmen in general, the native inhabitants of the
Moo mooooo, mo mooooooo mo moooooo, moo mooooo moooooooooo mo moo

seas have ever been regarded with emotions unspeakably unsocial and
mooo mooo mooo mooo mooooooo mooo mooooooo moooooooooo mooooooo moo

repelling; though we know the sea to be an everlasting terra incognita,
moooooooo; mooooo mo mooo moo moo mo mo mo moooooooooo moooo moooooooo,

so that Columbus sailed over numberless unknown worlds to discover his
mo mooo Mooooooo mooooo mooo mooooooooo moooooo mooooo mo mooooooo moo

one superficial western one; though, by vast odds, the most terrific
moo moooooooooo moooooo moo; mooooo, mo mooo mooo, moo mooo mooooooo

of all mortal disasters have immemorially and indiscriminately befallen
mo moo mooooo moooooooo mooo mooooooooooo moo mooooooooooooooo mooooooo

tens and hundreds of thousands of those who have gone upon the waters;
mooo moo mooooooo mo moooooooo mo moooo moo mooo mooo mooo moo mooooo;

though but a moment's consideration will teach, that however baby man
mooooo moo m mooooo'm moooooooooooo mooo moooo, mooo moooooo mooo moo

may brag of his science and skill, and however much, in a flattering
moo mooo mo moo moooooo moo moooo, moo moooooo mooo, mo m mooooooooo

future, that science and skill may augment; yet for ever and for ever,
mooooo, mooo moooooo moo moooo moo moooooo; moo moo mooo moo moo mooo,

to the crack of doom, the sea will insult and murder him, and pulverize
mo moo moooo mo mooo, moo moo mooo mooooo moo mooooo moo, moo moooooooo

the stateliest, stiffest frigate he can make; nevertheless, by the
moo mooooooooo, mooooooo moooooo mo moo mooo; mooooooooooo, mo moo

continual repetition of these very impressions, man has lost that sense
moooooooo mooooooooo mo moooo mooo moooooooooo, moo moo mooo mooo moooo

of the full awfulness of the sea which aboriginally belongs to it.
mo moo mooo moooooooo mo moo moo moooo mooooooooooo moooooo mo mo.




The first boat we read of, floated on an ocean, that with Portuguese
Moo moooo mooo mo mooo mo, moooooo mo mo moooo, mooo mooo Mooooooooo

vengeance had whelmed a whole world without leaving so much as a widow.
moooooooo moo moooooo m moooo moooo moooooo moooooo mo mooo mo m moooo.

That same ocean rolls now; that same ocean destroyed the wrecked ships
Mooo mooo moooo moooo moo; mooo mooo moooo moooooooo moo moooooo moooo

of last year. Yea, foolish mortals, Noah's flood is not yet subsided;
mo mooo mooo. Moo, moooooo moooooo, Mooo'm moooo mo moo moo mooooooo;

two thirds of the fair world it yet covers.
moo mooooo mo moo mooo moooo mo moo mooooo.




Wherein differ the sea and the land, that a miracle upon one is not a
Moooooo mooooo moo moo moo moo mooo, mooo m moooooo mooo moo mo moo m

miracle upon the other? Preternatural terrors rested upon the Hebrews,
moooooo mooo moo moooo? Moooooooooooo moooooo mooooo mooo moo Moooooo,

when under the feet of Korah and his company the live ground opened
mooo moooo moo mooo mo Moooo moo moo moooooo moo mooo mooooo mooooo

and swallowed them up for ever; yet not a modern sun ever sets, but in
moo moooooooo mooo mo moo mooo; moo moo m mooooo moo mooo mooo, moo mo

precisely the same manner the live sea swallows up ships and crews.
moooooooo moo mooo mooooo moo mooo moo mooooooo mo moooo moo moooo.




But not only is the sea such a foe to man who is an alien to it, but it
Moo moo mooo mo moo moo mooo m moo mo moo moo mo mo moooo mo mo, moo mo

is also a fiend to its own off-spring; worse than the Persian host who
mo mooo m moooo mo moo moo moo-mooooo; moooo mooo moo Moooooo mooo moo

murdered his own guests; sparing not the creatures which itself hath
mooooooo moo moo mooooo; moooooo moo moo moooooooo moooo mooooo mooo

spawned. Like a savage tigress that tossing in the jungle overlays her
moooooo. Mooo m mooooo moooooo mooo moooooo mo moo mooooo mooooooo moo

own cubs, so the sea dashes even the mightiest whales against the rocks,
moo mooo, mo moo moo mooooo mooo moo moooooooo mooooo moooooo moo moooo,

and leaves them there side by side with the split wrecks of ships. No
moo mooooo mooo moooo mooo mo mooo mooo moo moooo mooooo mo moooo. Mo

mercy, no power but its own controls it. Panting and snorting like a mad
moooo, mo moooo moo moo moo mooooooo mo. Moooooo moo mooooooo mooo m moo

battle steed that has lost its rider, the masterless ocean overruns the
mooooo moooo mooo moo mooo moo moooo, moo mooooooooo moooo mooooooo moo

globe.
moooo.




Consider the subtleness of the sea; how its most dreaded creatures glide
Mooooooo moo mooooooooo mo moo moo; moo moo mooo moooooo moooooooo moooo

under water, unapparent for the most part, and treacherously hidden
moooo moooo, mooooooooo moo moo mooo mooo, moo moooooooooooo mooooo

beneath the loveliest tints of azure. Consider also the devilish
moooooo moo moooooooo moooo mo moooo. Mooooooo mooo moo mooooooo

brilliance and beauty of many of its most remorseless tribes, as the
mooooooooo moo mooooo mo mooo mo moo mooo moooooooooo mooooo, mo moo

dainty embellished shape of many species of sharks. Consider, once more,
mooooo moooooooooo moooo mo mooo moooooo mo mooooo. Mooooooo, mooo mooo,

the universal cannibalism of the sea; all whose creatures prey upon each
moo moooooooo moooooooooo mo moo moo; moo moooo moooooooo mooo mooo mooo

other, carrying on eternal war since the world began.
moooo, mooooooo mo moooooo moo moooo moo moooo moooo.




Consider all this; and then turn to this green, gentle, and most docile
Mooooooo moo mooo; moo mooo mooo mo mooo moooo, mooooo, moo mooo mooooo

earth; consider them both, the sea and the land; and do you not find a
moooo; mooooooo mooo mooo, moo moo moo moo mooo; moo mo moo moo mooo m

strange analogy to something in yourself? For as this appalling ocean
moooooo moooooo mo moooooooo mo mooooooo? Moo mo mooo moooooooo moooo

surrounds the verdant land, so in the soul of man there lies one insular
moooooooo moo moooooo mooo, mo mo moo mooo mo moo moooo mooo moo moooooo

Tahiti, full of peace and joy, but encompassed by all the horrors of the
Mooooo, mooo mo moooo moo moo, moo moooooooooo mo moo moo moooooo mo moo

half known life. God keep thee! Push not off from that isle, thou canst
mooo moooo mooo. Moo mooo mooo! Mooo moo moo mooo mooo mooo, mooo moooo

never return!
moooo mooooo!







CHAPTER 59. Squid.
MOOOOOO mo. Moooo.







Slowly wading through the meadows of brit, the Pequod still held on her
Mooooo mooooo moooooo moo moooooo mo mooo, moo Mooooo moooo mooo mo moo

way north-eastward towards the island of Java; a gentle air impelling
moo moooo-mooooooo moooooo moo mooooo mo Mooo; m mooooo moo moooooooo

her keel, so that in the surrounding serenity her three tall tapering
moo mooo, mo mooo mo moo moooooooooo mooooooo moo moooo mooo mooooooo

masts mildly waved to that languid breeze, as three mild palms on a
moooo mooooo moooo mo mooo moooooo mooooo, mo moooo mooo moooo mo m

plain. And still, at wide intervals in the silvery night, the lonely,
moooo. Moo moooo, mo mooo moooooooo mo moo moooooo moooo, moo mooooo,

alluring jet would be seen.
mooooooo moo moooo mo mooo.




But one transparent blue morning, when a stillness almost preternatural
Moo moo moooooooooo mooo moooooo, mooo m moooooooo mooooo moooooooooooo

spread over the sea, however unattended with any stagnant calm; when
mooooo mooo moo moo, moooooo mooooooooo mooo moo mooooooo mooo; mooo

the long burnished sun-glade on the waters seemed a golden finger laid
moo mooo moooooooo moo-moooo mo moo mooooo mooooo m mooooo mooooo mooo

across them, enjoining some secrecy; when the slippered waves whispered
mooooo mooo, moooooooo mooo moooooo; mooo moo moooooooo moooo moooooooo

together as they softly ran on; in this profound hush of the visible
mooooooo mo mooo mooooo moo mo; mo mooo mooooooo mooo mo moo moooooo

sphere a strange spectre was seen by Daggoo from the main-mast-head.
mooooo m moooooo moooooo moo mooo mo Mooooo mooo moo mooo-mooo-mooo.




In the distance, a great white mass lazily rose, and rising higher and
Mo moo mooooooo, m moooo moooo mooo mooooo mooo, moo mooooo mooooo moo

higher, and disentangling itself from the azure, at last gleamed before
mooooo, moo moooooooooooo mooooo mooo moo moooo, mo mooo moooooo mooooo

our prow like a snow-slide, new slid from the hills. Thus glistening
moo mooo mooo m mooo-moooo, moo mooo mooo moo moooo. Mooo mooooooooo

for a moment, as slowly it subsided, and sank. Then once more arose,
moo m mooooo, mo mooooo mo mooooooo, moo mooo. Mooo mooo mooo moooo,

and silently gleamed. It seemed not a whale; and yet is this Moby Dick?
moo mooooooo moooooo. Mo mooooo moo m moooo; moo moo mo mooo Mooo Mooo?

thought Daggoo. Again the phantom went down, but on re-appearing once
moooooo Mooooo. Moooo moo moooooo mooo mooo, moo mo mo-moooooooo mooo

more, with a stiletto-like cry that startled every man from his nod, the
mooo, mooo m mooooooo-mooo moo mooo mooooooo moooo moo mooo moo moo, moo

negro yelled out--"There! there again! there she breaches! right ahead!
moooo mooooo moo--"Moooo! moooo moooo! moooo moo mooooooo! moooo moooo!

The White Whale, the White Whale!"
Moo Moooo Moooo, moo Moooo Moooo!"




Upon this, the seamen rushed to the yard-arms, as in swarming-time the
Mooo mooo, moo mooooo mooooo mo moo mooo-mooo, mo mo mooooooo-mooo moo

bees rush to the boughs. Bare-headed in the sultry sun, Ahab stood on
mooo mooo mo moo mooooo. Mooo-mooooo mo moo mooooo moo, Mooo moooo mo

the bowsprit, and with one hand pushed far behind in readiness to wave
moo mooooooo, moo mooo moo mooo mooooo moo mooooo mo moooooooo mo mooo

his orders to the helmsman, cast his eager glance in the direction
moo mooooo mo moo mooooooo, mooo moo moooo mooooo mo moo moooooooo

indicated aloft by the outstretched motionless arm of Daggoo.
moooooooo moooo mo moo mooooooooooo mooooooooo moo mo Mooooo.




Whether the flitting attendance of the one still and solitary jet had
Moooooo moo mooooooo mooooooooo mo moo moo moooo moo mooooooo moo moo

gradually worked upon Ahab, so that he was now prepared to connect the
moooooooo mooooo mooo Mooo, mo mooo mo moo moo mooooooo mo moooooo moo

ideas of mildness and repose with the first sight of the particular
moooo mo mooooooo moo mooooo mooo moo moooo moooo mo moo mooooooooo

whale he pursued; however this was, or whether his eagerness betrayed
moooo mo moooooo; moooooo mooo moo, mo moooooo moo moooooooo mooooooo

him; whichever way it might have been, no sooner did he distinctly
moo; moooooooo moo mo moooo mooo mooo, mo mooooo moo mo mooooooooo

perceive the white mass, than with a quick intensity he instantly gave
mooooooo moo moooo mooo, mooo mooo m moooo moooooooo mo moooooooo mooo

orders for lowering.
mooooo moo mooooooo.




The four boats were soon on the water; Ahab's in advance, and all
Moo mooo moooo mooo mooo mo moo moooo; Mooo'm mo moooooo, moo moo

swiftly pulling towards their prey. Soon it went down, and while, with
moooooo moooooo moooooo moooo mooo. Mooo mo mooo mooo, moo moooo, mooo

oars suspended, we were awaiting its reappearance, lo! in the same
mooo moooooooo, mo mooo mooooooo moo mooooooooooo, mo! mo moo mooo

spot where it sank, once more it slowly rose. Almost forgetting for
mooo moooo mo mooo, mooo mooo mo mooooo mooo. Mooooo mooooooooo moo

the moment all thoughts of Moby Dick, we now gazed at the most wondrous
moo mooooo moo mooooooo mo Mooo Mooo, mo moo moooo mo moo mooo mooooooo

phenomenon which the secret seas have hitherto revealed to mankind.
mooooooooo moooo moo mooooo mooo mooo mooooooo mooooooo mo moooooo.

A vast pulpy mass, furlongs in length and breadth, of a glancing
M mooo moooo mooo, mooooooo mo mooooo moo moooooo, mo m mooooooo

cream-colour, lay floating on the water, innumerable long arms radiating
moooo-mooooo, moo mooooooo mo moo moooo, moooooooooo mooo mooo moooooooo

from its centre, and curling and twisting like a nest of anacondas, as
mooo moo mooooo, moo moooooo moo mooooooo mooo m mooo mo moooooooo, mo

if blindly to clutch at any hapless object within reach. No perceptible
mo moooooo mo mooooo mo moo moooooo mooooo mooooo moooo. Mo moooooooooo

face or front did it have; no conceivable token of either sensation or
mooo mo moooo moo mo mooo; mo moooooooooo moooo mo mooooo moooooooo mo

instinct; but undulated there on the billows, an unearthly, formless,
mooooooo; moo moooooooo moooo mo moo moooooo, mo moooooooo, mooooooo,

chance-like apparition of life.
mooooo-mooo mooooooooo mo mooo.




As with a low sucking sound it slowly disappeared again, Starbuck still
Mo mooo m moo moooooo moooo mo mooooo moooooooooo moooo, Mooooooo moooo

gazing at the agitated waters where it had sunk, with a wild voice
mooooo mo moo mooooooo mooooo moooo mo moo mooo, mooo m mooo moooo

exclaimed--"Almost rather had I seen Moby Dick and fought him, than to
moooooooo--"Mooooo mooooo moo M mooo Mooo Mooo moo mooooo moo, mooo mo

have seen thee, thou white ghost!"
mooo mooo mooo, mooo moooo moooo!"




"What was it, Sir?" said Flask.
"Mooo moo mo, Moo?" mooo Moooo.




"The great live squid, which, they say, few whale-ships ever beheld, and
"Moo moooo mooo moooo, moooo, mooo moo, moo moooo-moooo mooo mooooo, moo

returned to their ports to tell of it."
mooooooo mo moooo moooo mo mooo mo mo."




But Ahab said nothing; turning his boat, he sailed back to the vessel;
Moo Mooo mooo moooooo; moooooo moo mooo, mo mooooo mooo mo moo mooooo;

the rest as silently following.
moo mooo mo mooooooo moooooooo.




Whatever superstitions the sperm whalemen in general have connected with
Mooooooo moooooooooooo moo moooo mooooooo mo moooooo mooo moooooooo mooo

the sight of this object, certain it is, that a glimpse of it being
moo moooo mo mooo mooooo, moooooo mo mo, mooo m moooooo mo mo moooo

so very unusual, that circumstance has gone far to invest it with
mo mooo moooooo, mooo mooooooooooo moo mooo moo mo mooooo mo mooo

portentousness. So rarely is it beheld, that though one and all of them
mooooooooooooo. Mo mooooo mo mo mooooo, mooo mooooo moo moo moo mo mooo

declare it to be the largest animated thing in the ocean, yet very few
moooooo mo mo mo moo moooooo mooooooo moooo mo moo moooo, moo mooo moo

of them have any but the most vague ideas concerning its true nature and
mo mooo mooo moo moo moo mooo moooo moooo mooooooooo moo mooo mooooo moo

form; notwithstanding, they believe it to furnish to the sperm whale
mooo; moooooooooooooo, mooo moooooo mo mo moooooo mo moo moooo moooo

his only food. For though other species of whales find their food above
moo mooo mooo. Moo mooooo moooo moooooo mo mooooo mooo moooo mooo moooo

water, and may be seen by man in the act of feeding, the spermaceti
moooo, moo moo mo mooo mo moo mo moo moo mo moooooo, moo mooooooooo

whale obtains his whole food in unknown zones below the surface; and
moooo moooooo moo moooo mooo mo moooooo moooo moooo moo moooooo; moo

only by inference is it that any one can tell of what, precisely, that
mooo mo moooooooo mo mo mooo moo moo moo mooo mo mooo, moooooooo, mooo

food consists. At times, when closely pursued, he will disgorge what
mooo mooooooo. Mo moooo, mooo moooooo moooooo, mo mooo mooooooo mooo

are supposed to be the detached arms of the squid; some of them thus
moo mooooooo mo mo moo mooooooo mooo mo moo moooo; mooo mo mooo mooo

exhibited exceeding twenty and thirty feet in length. They fancy that
moooooooo moooooooo mooooo moo mooooo mooo mo mooooo. Mooo moooo mooo

the monster to which these arms belonged ordinarily clings by them to
moo moooooo mo moooo moooo mooo mooooooo mooooooooo mooooo mo mooo mo

the bed of the ocean; and that the sperm whale, unlike other species, is
moo moo mo moo moooo; moo mooo moo moooo moooo, mooooo moooo moooooo, mo

supplied with teeth in order to attack and tear it.
mooooooo mooo moooo mo moooo mo mooooo moo mooo mo.




There seems some ground to imagine that the great Kraken of Bishop
Moooo moooo mooo mooooo mo moooooo mooo moo moooo Mooooo mo Mooooo

Pontoppodan may ultimately resolve itself into Squid. The manner in
Moooooooooo moo mooooooooo moooooo mooooo mooo Moooo. Moo mooooo mo

which the Bishop describes it, as alternately rising and sinking, with
moooo moo Mooooo moooooooo mo, mo moooooooooo mooooo moo moooooo, mooo

some other particulars he narrates, in all this the two correspond.
mooo moooo moooooooooo mo mooooooo, mo moo mooo moo moo mooooooooo.

But much abatement is necessary with respect to the incredible bulk he
Moo mooo moooooooo mo moooooooo mooo moooooo mo moo mooooooooo mooo mo

assigns it.
moooooo mo.




By some naturalists who have vaguely heard rumors of the mysterious
Mo mooo moooooooooo moo mooo moooooo moooo mooooo mo moo mooooooooo

creature, here spoken of, it is included among the class of cuttle-fish,
mooooooo, mooo mooooo mo, mo mo mooooooo moooo moo moooo mo mooooo-mooo,

to which, indeed, in certain external respects it would seem to belong,
mo moooo, mooooo, mo moooooo mooooooo mooooooo mo moooo mooo mo mooooo,

but only as the Anak of the tribe.
moo mooo mo moo Mooo mo moo moooo.










CHAPTER 60. The Line.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Mooo.







With reference to the whaling scene shortly to be described, as well as
Mooo moooooooo mo moo moooooo moooo moooooo mo mo moooooooo, mo mooo mo

for the better understanding of all similar scenes elsewhere presented,
moo moo mooooo moooooooooooo mo moo moooooo mooooo moooooooo moooooooo,

I have here to speak of the magical, sometimes horrible whale-line.
M mooo mooo mo moooo mo moo moooooo, moooooooo mooooooo moooo-mooo.




The line originally used in the fishery was of the best hemp, slightly
Moo mooo mooooooooo mooo mo moo moooooo moo mo moo mooo mooo, mooooooo

vapoured with tar, not impregnated with it, as in the case of ordinary
mooooooo mooo moo, moo moooooooooo mooo mo, mo mo moo mooo mo mooooooo

ropes; for while tar, as ordinarily used, makes the hemp more pliable to
moooo; moo moooo moo, mo mooooooooo mooo, moooo moo mooo mooo moooooo mo

the rope-maker, and also renders the rope itself more convenient to the
moo mooo-moooo, moo mooo moooooo moo mooo mooooo mooo mooooooooo mo moo

sailor for common ship use; yet, not only would the ordinary quantity
mooooo moo mooooo mooo moo; moo, moo mooo moooo moo mooooooo mooooooo

too much stiffen the whale-line for the close coiling to which it must
moo mooo moooooo moo moooo-mooo moo moo moooo moooooo mo moooo mo mooo

be subjected; but as most seamen are beginning to learn, tar in general
mo moooooooo; moo mo mooo mooooo moo moooooooo mo moooo, moo mo moooooo

by no means adds to the rope's durability or strength, however much it
mo mo moooo mooo mo moo mooo'm mooooooooo mo mooooooo, moooooo mooo mo

may give it compactness and gloss.
moo mooo mo moooooooooo moo moooo.




Of late years the Manilla rope has in the American fishery almost
Mo mooo moooo moo Moooooo mooo moo mo moo Mooooooo moooooo mooooo

entirely superseded hemp as a material for whale-lines; for, though not
mooooooo mooooooooo mooo mo m mooooooo moo moooo-moooo; moo, mooooo moo

so durable as hemp, it is stronger, and far more soft and elastic; and
mo moooooo mo mooo, mo mo mooooooo, moo moo mooo mooo moo moooooo; moo

I will add (since there is an aesthetics in all things), is much more
M mooo moo (moooo moooo mo mo mooooooooo mo moo mooooo), mo mooo mooo

handsome and becoming to the boat, than hemp. Hemp is a dusky, dark
mooooooo moo mooooooo mo moo mooo, mooo mooo. Mooo mo m moooo, mooo

fellow, a sort of Indian; but Manilla is as a golden-haired Circassian
mooooo, m mooo mo Mooooo; moo Moooooo mo mo m mooooo-mooooo Mooooooooo

to behold.
mo mooooo.




The whale-line is only two-thirds of an inch in thickness. At first
Moo moooo-mooo mo mooo moo-mooooo mo mo mooo mo moooooooo. Mo moooo

sight, you would not think it so strong as it really is. By experiment
moooo, moo moooo moo moooo mo mo mooooo mo mo mooooo mo. Mo mooooooooo

its one and fifty yarns will each suspend a weight of one hundred and
moo moo moo moooo moooo mooo mooo moooooo m mooooo mo moo moooooo moo

twenty pounds; so that the whole rope will bear a strain nearly equal
mooooo mooooo; mo mooo moo moooo mooo mooo mooo m mooooo mooooo moooo

to three tons. In length, the common sperm whale-line measures something
mo moooo mooo. Mo mooooo, moo mooooo moooo moooo-mooo mooooooo moooooooo

over two hundred fathoms. Towards the stern of the boat it is spirally
mooo moo moooooo moooooo. Moooooo moo moooo mo moo mooo mo mo mooooooo

coiled away in the tub, not like the worm-pipe of a still though, but so
mooooo mooo mo moo moo, moo mooo moo mooo-mooo mo m moooo mooooo, moo mo

as to form one round, cheese-shaped mass of densely bedded "sheaves," or
mo mo mooo moo moooo, mooooo-mooooo mooo mo moooooo mooooo "moooooo," mo

layers of concentric spiralizations, without any hollow but the "heart,"
mooooo mo mooooooooo mooooooooooooo, moooooo moo mooooo moo moo "moooo,"

or minute vertical tube formed at the axis of the cheese. As the least
mo mooooo mooooooo mooo mooooo mo moo mooo mo moo mooooo. Mo moo moooo

tangle or kink in the coiling would, in running out, infallibly take
mooooo mo mooo mo moo moooooo moooo, mo moooooo moo, mooooooooo mooo

somebody's arm, leg, or entire body off, the utmost precaution is used
mooooooo'm moo, moo, mo mooooo mooo moo, moo mooooo mooooooooo mo mooo

in stowing the line in its tub. Some harpooneers will consume almost an
mo moooooo moo mooo mo moo moo. Mooo moooooooooo mooo moooooo mooooo mo

entire morning in this business, carrying the line high aloft and then
mooooo moooooo mo mooo mooooooo, mooooooo moo mooo mooo moooo moo mooo

reeving it downwards through a block towards the tub, so as in the act
moooooo mo moooooooo moooooo m moooo moooooo moo moo, mo mo mo moo moo

of coiling to free it from all possible wrinkles and twists.
mo moooooo mo mooo mo mooo moo mooooooo mooooooo moo mooooo.




In the English boats two tubs are used instead of one; the same line
Mo moo Moooooo moooo moo mooo moo mooo moooooo mo moo; moo mooo mooo

being continuously coiled in both tubs. There is some advantage in this;
moooo mooooooooooo mooooo mo mooo mooo. Moooo mo mooo moooooooo mo mooo;

because these twin-tubs being so small they fit more readily into the
moooooo moooo mooo-mooo moooo mo moooo mooo moo mooo moooooo mooo moo

boat, and do not strain it so much; whereas, the American tub, nearly
mooo, moo mo moo mooooo mo mo mooo; moooooo, moo Mooooooo moo, mooooo

three feet in diameter and of proportionate depth, makes a rather bulky
moooo mooo mo mooooooo moo mo moooooooooooo moooo, moooo m mooooo moooo

freight for a craft whose planks are but one half-inch in thickness; for
moooooo moo m moooo moooo mooooo moo moo moo mooo-mooo mo moooooooo; moo

the bottom of the whale-boat is like critical ice, which will bear up
moo mooooo mo moo moooo-mooo mo mooo mooooooo moo, moooo mooo mooo mo

a considerable distributed weight, but not very much of a concentrated
m mooooooooooo moooooooooo mooooo, moo moo mooo mooo mo m mooooooooooo

one. When the painted canvas cover is clapped on the American line-tub,
moo. Mooo moo moooooo mooooo moooo mo moooooo mo moo Mooooooo mooo-moo,

the boat looks as if it were pulling off with a prodigious great
moo mooo moooo mo mo mo mooo moooooo moo mooo m mooooooooo moooo

wedding-cake to present to the whales.
moooooo-mooo mo moooooo mo moo mooooo.




Both ends of the line are exposed; the lower end terminating in an
Mooo mooo mo moo mooo moo moooooo; moo moooo moo moooooooooo mo mo

eye-splice or loop coming up from the bottom against the side of the
moo-mooooo mo mooo mooooo mo mooo moo mooooo moooooo moo mooo mo moo

tub, and hanging over its edge completely disengaged from everything.
moo, moo moooooo mooo moo mooo mooooooooo mooooooooo mooo mooooooooo.

This arrangement of the lower end is necessary on two accounts. First:
Mooo moooooooooo mo moo moooo moo mo moooooooo mo moo mooooooo. Moooo:

In order to facilitate the fastening to it of an additional line from a
Mo moooo mo mooooooooo moo moooooooo mo mo mo mo mooooooooo mooo mooo m

neighboring boat, in case the stricken whale should sound so deep as
moooooooooo mooo, mo mooo moo mooooooo moooo mooooo moooo mo mooo mo

to threaten to carry off the entire line originally attached to the
mo mooooooo mo moooo moo moo mooooo mooo mooooooooo mooooooo mo moo

harpoon. In these instances, the whale of course is shifted like a mug
moooooo. Mo moooo moooooooo, moo moooo mo mooooo mo moooooo mooo m moo

of ale, as it were, from the one boat to the other; though the
mo moo, mo mo mooo, mooo moo moo mooo mo moo moooo; mooooo moo

first boat always hovers at hand to assist its consort. Second: This
moooo mooo mooooo mooooo mo mooo mo mooooo moo moooooo. Mooooo: Mooo

arrangement is indispensable for common safety's sake; for were the
moooooooooo mo moooooooooooo moo mooooo mooooo'm mooo; moo mooo moo

lower end of the line in any way attached to the boat, and were the
moooo moo mo moo mooo mo moo moo mooooooo mo moo mooo, moo mooo moo

whale then to run the line out to the end almost in a single, smoking
moooo mooo mo moo moo mooo moo mo moo moo mooooo mo m mooooo, moooooo

minute as he sometimes does, he would not stop there, for the doomed
mooooo mo mo moooooooo mooo, mo moooo moo mooo moooo, moo moo mooooo

boat would infallibly be dragged down after him into the profundity of
mooo moooo mooooooooo mo moooooo mooo moooo moo mooo moo mooooooooo mo

the sea; and in that case no town-crier would ever find her again.
moo moo; moo mo mooo mooo mo mooo-moooo moooo mooo mooo moo moooo.




Before lowering the boat for the chase, the upper end of the line is
Mooooo mooooooo moo mooo moo moo moooo, moo moooo moo mo moo mooo mo

taken aft from the tub, and passing round the loggerhead there, is again
moooo moo mooo moo moo, moo moooooo moooo moo mooooooooo moooo, mo moooo

carried forward the entire length of the boat, resting crosswise upon
moooooo moooooo moo mooooo mooooo mo moo mooo, moooooo moooooooo mooo

the loom or handle of every man's oar, so that it jogs against his wrist
moo mooo mo mooooo mo moooo moo'm moo, mo mooo mo mooo moooooo moo moooo

in rowing; and also passing between the men, as they alternately sit at
mo mooooo; moo mooo moooooo moooooo moo moo, mo mooo moooooooooo moo mo

the opposite gunwales, to the leaded chocks or grooves in the extreme
moo mooooooo mooooooo, mo moo mooooo mooooo mo moooooo mo moo moooooo

pointed prow of the boat, where a wooden pin or skewer the size of a
moooooo mooo mo moo mooo, moooo m mooooo moo mo mooooo moo mooo mo m

common quill, prevents it from slipping out. From the chocks it hangs
mooooo moooo, mooooooo mo mooo mooooooo moo. Mooo moo mooooo mo moooo

in a slight festoon over the bows, and is then passed inside the boat
mo m mooooo moooooo mooo moo mooo, moo mo mooo mooooo mooooo moo mooo

again; and some ten or twenty fathoms (called box-line) being coiled
moooo; moo mooo moo mo mooooo moooooo (mooooo moo-mooo) moooo mooooo

upon the box in the bows, it continues its way to the gunwale still a
mooo moo moo mo moo mooo, mo moooooooo moo moo mo moo moooooo moooo m

little further aft, and is then attached to the short-warp--the rope
mooooo moooooo moo, moo mo mooo mooooooo mo moo moooo-mooo--moo mooo

which is immediately connected with the harpoon; but previous to that
moooo mo moooooooooo moooooooo mooo moo moooooo; moo mooooooo mo mooo

connexion, the short-warp goes through sundry mystifications too tedious
moooooooo, moo moooo-mooo mooo moooooo mooooo mooooooooooooo moo moooooo

to detail.
mo mooooo.




Thus the whale-line folds the whole boat in its complicated coils,
Mooo moo moooo-mooo moooo moo moooo mooo mo moo moooooooooo moooo,

twisting and writhing around it in almost every direction. All the
mooooooo moo mooooooo mooooo mo mo mooooo moooo moooooooo. Moo moo

oarsmen are involved in its perilous contortions; so that to the timid
moooooo moo mooooooo mo moo mooooooo moooooooooo; mo mooo mo moo moooo

eye of the landsman, they seem as Indian jugglers, with the deadliest
moo mo moo mooooooo, mooo mooo mo Mooooo mooooooo, mooo moo moooooooo

snakes sportively festooning their limbs. Nor can any son of mortal
mooooo mooooooooo mooooooooo moooo moooo. Moo moo moo moo mo mooooo

woman, for the first time, seat himself amid those hempen intricacies,
moooo, moo moo moooo mooo, mooo moooooo mooo moooo mooooo moooooooooo,

and while straining his utmost at the oar, bethink him that at any
moo moooo moooooooo moo mooooo mo moo moo, moooooo moo mooo mo moo

unknown instant the harpoon may be darted, and all these horrible
moooooo moooooo moo moooooo moo mo mooooo, moo moo moooo mooooooo

contortions be put in play like ringed lightnings; he cannot be thus
moooooooooo mo moo mo mooo mooo mooooo mooooooooo; mo mooooo mo mooo

circumstanced without a shudder that makes the very marrow in his bones
moooooooooooo moooooo m moooooo mooo moooo moo mooo mooooo mo moo moooo

to quiver in him like a shaken jelly. Yet habit--strange thing! what
mo mooooo mo moo mooo m mooooo moooo. Moo moooo--moooooo moooo! mooo

cannot habit accomplish?--Gayer sallies, more merry mirth, better jokes,
mooooo moooo mooooooooo?--Moooo moooooo, mooo moooo moooo, mooooo moooo,

and brighter repartees, you never heard over your mahogany, than you
moo mooooooo moooooooo, moo moooo moooo mooo mooo mooooooo, mooo moo

will hear over the half-inch white cedar of the whale-boat, when thus
mooo mooo mooo moo mooo-mooo moooo moooo mo moo moooo-mooo, mooo mooo

hung in hangman's nooses; and, like the six burghers of Calais before
mooo mo moooooo'm mooooo; moo, mooo moo moo mooooooo mo Mooooo mooooo

King Edward, the six men composing the crew pull into the jaws of death,
Mooo Mooooo, moo moo moo moooooooo moo mooo mooo mooo moo mooo mo moooo,

with a halter around every neck, as you may say.
mooo m mooooo mooooo moooo mooo, mo moo moo moo.




Perhaps a very little thought will now enable you to account for
Moooooo m mooo mooooo moooooo mooo moo mooooo moo mo moooooo moo

those repeated whaling disasters--some few of which are casually
moooo mooooooo moooooo moooooooo--mooo moo mo moooo moo mooooooo

chronicled--of this man or that man being taken out of the boat by the
mooooooooo--mo mooo moo mo mooo moo moooo moooo moo mo moo mooo mo moo

line, and lost. For, when the line is darting out, to be seated then in
mooo, moo mooo. Moo, mooo moo mooo mo moooooo moo, mo mo mooooo mooo mo

the boat, is like being seated in the midst of the manifold whizzings
moo mooo, mo mooo moooo mooooo mo moo moooo mo moo mooooooo moooooooo

of a steam-engine in full play, when every flying beam, and shaft, and
mo m moooo-mooooo mo mooo mooo, mooo moooo mooooo mooo, moo moooo, moo

wheel, is grazing you. It is worse; for you cannot sit motionless in the
moooo, mo moooooo moo. Mo mo moooo; moo moo mooooo moo mooooooooo mo moo

heart of these perils, because the boat is rocking like a cradle, and
moooo mo moooo mooooo, moooooo moo mooo mo moooooo mooo m mooooo, moo

you are pitched one way and the other, without the slightest warning;
moo moo moooooo moo moo moo moo moooo, moooooo moo moooooooo moooooo;

and only by a certain self-adjusting buoyancy and simultaneousness of
moo mooo mo m moooooo mooo-moooooooo mooooooo moo mooooooooooooooo mo

volition and action, can you escape being made a Mazeppa of, and run
mooooooo moo mooooo, moo moo mooooo moooo mooo m Moooooo mo, moo moo

away with where the all-seeing sun himself could never pierce you out.
mooo mooo moooo moo moo-mooooo moo moooooo moooo moooo mooooo moo moo.




Again: as the profound calm which only apparently precedes and
Moooo: mo moo mooooooo mooo moooo mooo mooooooooo mooooooo moo

prophesies of the storm, is perhaps more awful than the storm itself;
mooooooooo mo moo moooo, mo moooooo mooo moooo mooo moo moooo mooooo;

for, indeed, the calm is but the wrapper and envelope of the storm; and
moo, mooooo, moo mooo mo moo moo moooooo moo mooooooo mo moo moooo; moo

contains it in itself, as the seemingly harmless rifle holds the fatal
mooooooo mo mo mooooo, mo moo moooooooo mooooooo moooo moooo moo moooo

powder, and the ball, and the explosion; so the graceful repose of the
mooooo, moo moo mooo, moo moo moooooooo; mo moo mooooooo mooooo mo moo

line, as it silently serpentines about the oarsmen before being brought
mooo, mo mo mooooooo moooooooooo moooo moo moooooo mooooo moooo moooooo

into actual play--this is a thing which carries more of true terror than
mooo mooooo mooo--mooo mo m moooo moooo moooooo mooo mo mooo mooooo mooo

any other aspect of this dangerous affair. But why say more? All men
moo moooo mooooo mo mooo moooooooo mooooo. Moo moo moo mooo? Moo moo

live enveloped in whale-lines. All are born with halters round their
mooo moooooooo mo moooo-moooo. Moo moo mooo mooo moooooo moooo moooo

necks; but it is only when caught in the swift, sudden turn of death,
moooo; moo mo mo mooo mooo mooooo mo moo moooo, mooooo mooo mo moooo,

that mortals realize the silent, subtle, ever-present perils of life.
mooo moooooo moooooo moo mooooo, mooooo, mooo-moooooo mooooo mo mooo.

And if you be a philosopher, though seated in the whale-boat, you would
Moo mo moo mo m moooooooooo, mooooo mooooo mo moo moooo-mooo, moo moooo

not at heart feel one whit more of terror, than though seated before
moo mo moooo mooo moo mooo mooo mo mooooo, mooo mooooo mooooo mooooo

your evening fire with a poker, and not a harpoon, by your side.
mooo moooooo mooo mooo m moooo, moo moo m moooooo, mo mooo mooo.










CHAPTER 61. Stubb Kills a Whale.
MOOOOOO mo. Moooo Moooo m Moooo.







If to Starbuck the apparition of the Squid was a thing of portents, to
Mo mo Mooooooo moo mooooooooo mo moo Moooo moo m moooo mo mooooooo, mo

Queequeg it was quite a different object.
Mooooooo mo moo moooo m moooooooo mooooo.




"When you see him 'quid," said the savage, honing his harpoon in the bow
"Mooo moo moo moo 'mooo," mooo moo mooooo, mooooo moo moooooo mo moo moo

of his hoisted boat, "then you quick see him 'parm whale."
mo moo moooooo mooo, "mooo moo moooo moo moo 'mooo moooo."




The next day was exceedingly still and sultry, and with nothing special
Moo mooo moo moo moooooooooo moooo moo mooooo, moo mooo moooooo moooooo

to engage them, the Pequod's crew could hardly resist the spell of sleep
mo mooooo mooo, moo Mooooo'm mooo moooo mooooo mooooo moo moooo mo moooo

induced by such a vacant sea. For this part of the Indian Ocean through
moooooo mo mooo m mooooo moo. Moo mooo mooo mo moo Mooooo Moooo moooooo

which we then were voyaging is not what whalemen call a lively ground;
moooo mo mooo mooo mooooooo mo moo mooo mooooooo mooo m mooooo mooooo;

that is, it affords fewer glimpses of porpoises, dolphins, flying-fish,
mooo mo, mo moooooo moooo mooooooo mo moooooooo, mooooooo, mooooo-mooo,

and other vivacious denizens of more stirring waters, than those off the
moo moooo moooooooo mooooooo mo mooo mooooooo mooooo, mooo moooo moo moo

Rio de la Plata, or the in-shore ground off Peru.
Moo mo mo Moooo, mo moo mo-moooo mooooo moo Mooo.




It was my turn to stand at the foremast-head; and with my shoulders
Mo moo mo mooo mo moooo mo moo mooooooo-mooo; moo mooo mo moooooooo

leaning against the slackened royal shrouds, to and fro I idly swayed in
moooooo moooooo moo moooooooo moooo moooooo, mo moo moo M mooo mooooo mo

what seemed an enchanted air. No resolution could withstand it; in that
mooo mooooo mo moooooooo moo. Mo mooooooooo moooo moooooooo mo; mo mooo

dreamy mood losing all consciousness, at last my soul went out of my
mooooo mooo mooooo moo moooooooooooo, mo mooo mo mooo mooo moo mo mo

body; though my body still continued to sway as a pendulum will, long
mooo; mooooo mo mooo moooo moooooooo mo mooo mo m mooooooo mooo, mooo

after the power which first moved it is withdrawn.
moooo moo moooo moooo moooo moooo mo mo moooooooo.




Ere forgetfulness altogether came over me, I had noticed that the seamen
Moo moooooooooooo mooooooooo mooo mooo mo, M moo moooooo mooo moo mooooo

at the main and mizzen-mast-heads were already drowsy. So that at last
mo moo mooo moo mooooo-mooo-moooo mooo moooooo mooooo. Mo mooo mo mooo

all three of us lifelessly swung from the spars, and for every swing
moo moooo mo mo mooooooooo moooo mooo moo moooo, moo moo moooo moooo

that we made there was a nod from below from the slumbering helmsman.
mooo mo mooo moooo moo m moo mooo moooo mooo moo mooooooooo mooooooo.

The waves, too, nodded their indolent crests; and across the wide trance
Moo moooo, moo, mooooo moooo mooooooo mooooo; moo mooooo moo mooo mooooo

of the sea, east nodded to west, and the sun over all.
mo moo moo, mooo mooooo mo mooo, moo moo moo mooo moo.




Suddenly bubbles seemed bursting beneath my closed eyes; like vices my
Mooooooo moooooo mooooo mooooooo moooooo mo mooooo mooo; mooo moooo mo

hands grasped the shrouds; some invisible, gracious agency preserved me;
moooo moooooo moo moooooo; mooo moooooooo, mooooooo mooooo moooooooo mo;

with a shock I came back to life. And lo! close under our lee, not forty
mooo m moooo M mooo mooo mo mooo. Moo mo! moooo moooo moo moo, moo moooo

fathoms off, a gigantic Sperm Whale lay rolling in the water like the
moooooo moo, m mooooooo Moooo Moooo moo moooooo mo moo moooo mooo moo

capsized hull of a frigate, his broad, glossy back, of an Ethiopian hue,
mooooooo mooo mo m moooooo, moo moooo, mooooo mooo, mo mo Moooooooo moo,

glistening in the sun's rays like a mirror. But lazily undulating in
mooooooooo mo moo moo'm mooo mooo m mooooo. Moo mooooo mooooooooo mo

the trough of the sea, and ever and anon tranquilly spouting his vapoury
moo mooooo mo moo moo, moo mooo moo mooo mooooooooo mooooooo moo moooooo

jet, the whale looked like a portly burgher smoking his pipe of a warm
moo, moo moooo mooooo mooo m mooooo moooooo moooooo moo mooo mo m mooo

afternoon. But that pipe, poor whale, was thy last. As if struck by some
moooooooo. Moo mooo mooo, mooo moooo, moo moo mooo. Mo mo mooooo mo mooo

enchanter's wand, the sleepy ship and every sleeper in it all at once
moooooooo'm mooo, moo mooooo mooo moo moooo moooooo mo mo moo mo mooo

started into wakefulness; and more than a score of voices from all parts
moooooo mooo moooooooooo; moo mooo mooo m moooo mo mooooo mooo moo moooo

of the vessel, simultaneously with the three notes from aloft, shouted
mo moo mooooo, mooooooooooooo mooo moo moooo moooo mooo moooo, moooooo

forth the accustomed cry, as the great fish slowly and regularly spouted
moooo moo mooooooooo moo, mo moo moooo mooo mooooo moo moooooooo moooooo

the sparkling brine into the air.
moo moooooooo moooo mooo moo moo.




"Clear away the boats! Luff!" cried Ahab. And obeying his own order, he
"Moooo mooo moo moooo! Mooo!" moooo Mooo. Moo moooooo moo moo moooo, mo

dashed the helm down before the helmsman could handle the spokes.
mooooo moo mooo mooo mooooo moo mooooooo moooo mooooo moo mooooo.




The sudden exclamations of the crew must have alarmed the whale; and ere
Moo mooooo mooooooooooo mo moo mooo mooo mooo moooooo moo moooo; moo moo

the boats were down, majestically turning, he swam away to the leeward,
moo moooo mooo mooo, mooooooooooo moooooo, mo mooo mooo mo moo moooooo,

but with such a steady tranquillity, and making so few ripples as he
moo mooo mooo m mooooo mooooooooooo, moo mooooo mo moo moooooo mo mo

swam, that thinking after all he might not as yet be alarmed, Ahab gave
mooo, mooo mooooooo moooo moo mo moooo moo mo moo mo moooooo, Mooo mooo

orders that not an oar should be used, and no man must speak but in
mooooo mooo moo mo moo mooooo mo mooo, moo mo moo mooo moooo moo mo

whispers. So seated like Ontario Indians on the gunwales of the boats,
mooooooo. Mo mooooo mooo Moooooo Moooooo mo moo mooooooo mo moo moooo,

we swiftly but silently paddled along; the calm not admitting of the
mo moooooo moo mooooooo moooooo moooo; moo mooo moo moooooooo mo moo

noiseless sails being set. Presently, as we thus glided in chase, the
moooooooo moooo moooo moo. Moooooooo, mo mo mooo mooooo mo moooo, moo

monster perpendicularly flitted his tail forty feet into the air, and
moooooo moooooooooooooo moooooo moo mooo moooo mooo mooo moo moo, moo

then sank out of sight like a tower swallowed up.
mooo mooo moo mo moooo mooo m moooo moooooooo mo.




"There go flukes!" was the cry, an announcement immediately followed by
"Moooo mo mooooo!" moo moo moo, mo mooooooooooo moooooooooo mooooooo mo

Stubb's producing his match and igniting his pipe, for now a respite was
Moooo'm moooooooo moo moooo moo mooooooo moo mooo, moo moo m moooooo moo

granted. After the full interval of his sounding had elapsed, the whale
moooooo. Moooo moo mooo mooooooo mo moo mooooooo moo moooooo, moo moooo

rose again, and being now in advance of the smoker's boat, and much
mooo moooo, moo moooo moo mo moooooo mo moo mooooo'm mooo, moo mooo

nearer to it than to any of the others, Stubb counted upon the honour
mooooo mo mo mooo mo moo mo moo mooooo, Moooo moooooo mooo moo mooooo

of the capture. It was obvious, now, that the whale had at length become
mo moo moooooo. Mo moo moooooo, moo, mooo moo moooo moo mo mooooo mooooo

aware of his pursuers. All silence of cautiousness was therefore no
moooo mo moo mooooooo. Moo moooooo mo mooooooooooo moo moooooooo mo

longer of use. Paddles were dropped, and oars came loudly into play. And
mooooo mo moo. Moooooo mooo moooooo, moo mooo mooo mooooo mooo mooo. Moo

still puffing at his pipe, Stubb cheered on his crew to the assault.
moooo moooooo mo moo mooo, Moooo moooooo mo moo mooo mo moo moooooo.




Yes, a mighty change had come over the fish. All alive to his jeopardy,
Moo, m mooooo mooooo moo mooo mooo moo mooo. Moo moooo mo moo mooooooo,

he was going "head out"; that part obliquely projecting from the mad
mo moo moooo "mooo moo"; mooo mooo moooooooo mooooooooo mooo moo moo

yeast which he brewed.*
moooo moooo mo mooooo.*







*It will be seen in some other place of what a very light substance
*Mo mooo mo mooo mo mooo moooo moooo mo mooo m mooo moooo moooooooo

the entire interior of the sperm whale's enormous head consists. Though
moo mooooo mooooooo mo moo moooo moooo'm mooooooo mooo mooooooo. Mooooo

apparently the most massive, it is by far the most buoyant part about
mooooooooo moo mooo moooooo, mo mo mo moo moo mooo moooooo mooo moooo

him. So that with ease he elevates it in the air, and invariably does
moo. Mo mooo mooo mooo mo mooooooo mo mo moo moo, moo mooooooooo mooo

so when going at his utmost speed. Besides, such is the breadth of the
mo mooo moooo mo moo mooooo moooo. Moooooo, mooo mo moo moooooo mo moo

upper part of the front of his head, and such the tapering cut-water
moooo mooo mo moo moooo mo moo mooo, moo mooo moo mooooooo moo-moooo

formation of the lower part, that by obliquely elevating his head, he
moooooooo mo moo moooo mooo, mooo mo moooooooo moooooooo moo mooo, mo

thereby may be said to transform himself from a bluff-bowed sluggish
moooooo moo mo mooo mo moooooooo moooooo mooo m moooo-moooo mooooooo

galliot into a sharppointed New York pilot-boat.
moooooo mooo m mooooooooooo Moo Mooo moooo-mooo.







"Start her, start her, my men! Don't hurry yourselves; take plenty of
"Moooo moo, moooo moo, mo moo! Moo'm moooo mooooooooo; mooo mooooo mo

time--but start her; start her like thunder-claps, that's all," cried
mooo--moo moooo moo; moooo moo mooo moooooo-moooo, mooo'm moo," moooo

Stubb, spluttering out the smoke as he spoke. "Start her, now; give 'em
Moooo, moooooooooo moo moo moooo mo mo moooo. "Moooo moo, moo; mooo 'mo

the long and strong stroke, Tashtego. Start her, Tash, my boy--start
moo mooo moo mooooo mooooo, Mooooooo. Moooo moo, Mooo, mo moo--moooo

her, all; but keep cool, keep cool--cucumbers is the word--easy,
moo, moo; moo mooo mooo, mooo mooo--moooooooo mo moo mooo--mooo,

easy--only start her like grim death and grinning devils, and raise the
mooo--mooo moooo moo mooo mooo moooo moo mooooooo mooooo, moo moooo moo

buried dead perpendicular out of their graves, boys--that's all. Start
mooooo mooo moooooooooooo moo mo moooo mooooo, mooo--mooo'm moo. Moooo

her!"
moo!"




"Woo-hoo! Wa-hee!" screamed the Gay-Header in reply, raising some
"Moo-moo! Mo-moo!" mooooooo moo Moo-Mooooo mo moooo, moooooo mooo

old war-whoop to the skies; as every oarsman in the strained boat
moo moo-moooo mo moo moooo; mo moooo moooooo mo moo mooooooo mooo

involuntarily bounced forward with the one tremendous leading stroke
moooooooooooo moooooo moooooo mooo moo moo mooooooooo moooooo mooooo

which the eager Indian gave.
moooo moo moooo Mooooo mooo.




But his wild screams were answered by others quite as wild. "Kee-hee!
Moo moo mooo moooooo mooo mooooooo mo mooooo moooo mo mooo. "Moo-moo!

Kee-hee!" yelled Daggoo, straining forwards and backwards on his seat,
Moo-moo!" mooooo Mooooo, moooooooo mooooooo moo moooooooo mo moo mooo,

like a pacing tiger in his cage.
mooo m mooooo moooo mo moo mooo.




"Ka-la! Koo-loo!" howled Queequeg, as if smacking his lips over a
"Mo-mo! Moo-moo!" mooooo Mooooooo, mo mo mooooooo moo mooo mooo m

mouthful of Grenadier's steak. And thus with oars and yells the keels
mooooooo mo Moooooooo'm moooo. Moo mooo mooo mooo moo moooo moo moooo

cut the sea. Meanwhile, Stubb retaining his place in the van, still
moo moo moo. Moooooooo, Moooo moooooooo moo moooo mo moo moo, moooo

encouraged his men to the onset, all the while puffing the smoke from
mooooooooo moo moo mo moo moooo, moo moo moooo moooooo moo moooo mooo

his mouth. Like desperadoes they tugged and they strained, till the
moo moooo. Mooo moooooooooo mooo mooooo moo mooo mooooooo, mooo moo

welcome cry was heard--"Stand up, Tashtego!--give it to him!" The
moooooo moo moo moooo--"Moooo mo, Mooooooo!--mooo mo mo moo!" Moo

harpoon was hurled. "Stern all!" The oarsmen backed water; the same
moooooo moo mooooo. "Moooo moo!" Moo moooooo mooooo moooo; moo mooo

moment something went hot and hissing along every one of their wrists.
mooooo moooooooo mooo moo moo moooooo moooo moooo moo mo moooo mooooo.

It was the magical line. An instant before, Stubb had swiftly caught two
Mo moo moo moooooo mooo. Mo moooooo mooooo, Moooo moo moooooo mooooo moo

additional turns with it round the loggerhead, whence, by reason of its
mooooooooo moooo mooo mo moooo moo mooooooooo, mooooo, mo mooooo mo moo

increased rapid circlings, a hempen blue smoke now jetted up and mingled
moooooooo moooo moooooooo, m mooooo mooo moooo moo mooooo mo moo moooooo

with the steady fumes from his pipe. As the line passed round and
mooo moo mooooo moooo mooo moo mooo. Mo moo mooo mooooo moooo moo

round the loggerhead; so also, just before reaching that point, it
moooo moo mooooooooo; mo mooo, mooo mooooo mooooooo mooo moooo, mo

blisteringly passed through and through both of Stubb's hands, from
mooooooooooo mooooo moooooo moo moooooo mooo mo Moooo'm moooo, mooo

which the hand-cloths, or squares of quilted canvas sometimes worn at
moooo moo mooo-mooooo, mo moooooo mo moooooo mooooo moooooooo mooo mo

these times, had accidentally dropped. It was like holding an enemy's
moooo moooo, moo mooooooooooo moooooo. Mo moo mooo moooooo mo moooo'm

sharp two-edged sword by the blade, and that enemy all the time striving
moooo moo-moooo moooo mo moo moooo, moo mooo moooo moo moo mooo mooooooo

to wrest it out of your clutch.
mo moooo mo moo mo mooo mooooo.




"Wet the line! wet the line!" cried Stubb to the tub oarsman (him seated
"Moo moo mooo! moo moo mooo!" moooo Moooo mo moo moo moooooo (moo mooooo

by the tub) who, snatching off his hat, dashed sea-water into it.* More
mo moo moo) moo, moooooooo moo moo moo, mooooo moo-moooo mooo mo.* Mooo

turns were taken, so that the line began holding its place. The boat now
moooo mooo moooo, mo mooo moo mooo moooo moooooo moo moooo. Moo mooo moo

flew through the boiling water like a shark all fins. Stubb and Tashtego
mooo moooooo moo moooooo moooo mooo m moooo moo mooo. Moooo moo Mooooooo

here changed places--stem for stern--a staggering business truly in that
mooo moooooo mooooo--mooo moo moooo--m mooooooooo mooooooo moooo mo mooo

rocking commotion.
moooooo moooooooo.







*Partly to show the indispensableness of this act, it may here be
*Mooooo mo mooo moo moooooooooooooooo mo mooo moo, mo moo mooo mo

stated, that, in the old Dutch fishery, a mop was used to dash the
mooooo, mooo, mo moo moo Moooo moooooo, m moo moo mooo mo mooo moo

running line with water; in many other ships, a wooden piggin, or
moooooo mooo mooo moooo; mo mooo moooo moooo, m mooooo mooooo, mo

bailer, is set apart for that purpose. Your hat, however, is the most
mooooo, mo moo moooo moo mooo moooooo. Mooo moo, moooooo, mo moo mooo

convenient.
mooooooooo.







From the vibrating line extending the entire length of the upper part of
Mooo moo moooooooo mooo moooooooo moo mooooo mooooo mo moo moooo mooo mo

the boat, and from its now being more tight than a harpstring, you would
moo mooo, moo mooo moo moo moooo mooo moooo mooo m mooooooooo, moo moooo

have thought the craft had two keels--one cleaving the water, the other
mooo moooooo moo moooo moo moo moooo--moo mooooooo moo moooo, moo moooo

the air--as the boat churned on through both opposing elements at once.
moo moo--mo moo mooo moooooo mo moooooo mooo mooooooo mooooooo mo mooo.

A continual cascade played at the bows; a ceaseless whirling eddy in
M moooooooo moooooo mooooo mo moo mooo; m moooooooo mooooooo mooo mo

her wake; and, at the slightest motion from within, even but of a little
moo mooo; moo, mo moo moooooooo mooooo mooo mooooo, mooo moo mo m mooooo

finger, the vibrating, cracking craft canted over her spasmodic gunwale
mooooo, moo moooooooo, mooooooo moooo mooooo mooo moo moooooooo moooooo

into the sea. Thus they rushed; each man with might and main clinging
mooo moo moo. Mooo mooo mooooo; mooo moo mooo moooo moo mooo mooooooo

to his seat, to prevent being tossed to the foam; and the tall form of
mo moo mooo, mo moooooo moooo mooooo mo moo mooo; moo moo mooo mooo mo

Tashtego at the steering oar crouching almost double, in order to bring
Mooooooo mo moo mooooooo moo moooooooo mooooo mooooo, mo moooo mo moooo

down his centre of gravity. Whole Atlantics and Pacifics seemed passed
mooo moo mooooo mo moooooo. Moooo Moooooooo moo Mooooooo mooooo mooooo

as they shot on their way, till at length the whale somewhat slackened
mo mooo mooo mo moooo moo, mooo mo mooooo moo moooo mooooooo moooooooo

his flight.
moo mooooo.




"Haul in--haul in!" cried Stubb to the bowsman! and, facing round
"Mooo mo--mooo mo!" moooo Moooo mo moo moooooo! moo, mooooo moooo

towards the whale, all hands began pulling the boat up to him, while yet
moooooo moo moooo, moo moooo moooo moooooo moo mooo mo mo moo, moooo moo

the boat was being towed on. Soon ranging up by his flank, Stubb, firmly
moo mooo moo moooo moooo mo. Mooo moooooo mo mo moo moooo, Moooo, mooooo

planting his knee in the clumsy cleat, darted dart after dart into the
mooooooo moo mooo mo moo mooooo moooo, mooooo mooo moooo mooo mooo moo

flying fish; at the word of command, the boat alternately sterning
mooooo mooo; mo moo mooo mo moooooo, moo mooo moooooooooo mooooooo

out of the way of the whale's horrible wallow, and then ranging up for
moo mo moo moo mo moo moooo'm mooooooo mooooo, moo mooo moooooo mo moo

another fling.
moooooo moooo.




The red tide now poured from all sides of the monster like brooks down a
Moo moo mooo moo mooooo mooo moo moooo mo moo moooooo mooo mooooo mooo m

hill. His tormented body rolled not in brine but in blood, which bubbled
mooo. Moo moooooooo mooo mooooo moo mo moooo moo mo moooo, moooo moooooo

and seethed for furlongs behind in their wake. The slanting sun playing
moo moooooo moo mooooooo mooooo mo moooo mooo. Moo mooooooo moo moooooo

upon this crimson pond in the sea, sent back its reflection into every
mooo mooo moooooo mooo mo moo moo, mooo mooo moo mooooooooo mooo moooo

face, so that they all glowed to each other like red men. And all
mooo, mo mooo mooo moo mooooo mo mooo moooo mooo moo moo. Moo moo

the while, jet after jet of white smoke was agonizingly shot from the
moo moooo, moo moooo moo mo moooo moooo moo moooooooooo mooo mooo moo

spiracle of the whale, and vehement puff after puff from the mouth of
mooooooo mo moo moooo, moo mooooooo mooo moooo mooo mooo moo moooo mo

the excited headsman; as at every dart, hauling in upon his crooked
moo moooooo mooooooo; mo mo moooo mooo, moooooo mo mooo moo moooooo

lance (by the line attached to it), Stubb straightened it again and
moooo (mo moo mooo mooooooo mo mo), Moooo mooooooooooo mo moooo moo

again, by a few rapid blows against the gunwale, then again and again
moooo, mo m moo moooo moooo moooooo moo moooooo, mooo moooo moo moooo

sent it into the whale.
mooo mo mooo moo moooo.




"Pull up--pull up!" he now cried to the bowsman, as the waning whale
"Mooo mo--mooo mo!" mo moo moooo mo moo moooooo, mo moo mooooo moooo

relaxed in his wrath. "Pull up!--close to!" and the boat ranged along
moooooo mo moo moooo. "Mooo mo!--moooo mo!" moo moo mooo mooooo moooo

the fish's flank. When reaching far over the bow, Stubb slowly churned
moo mooo'm moooo. Mooo mooooooo moo mooo moo moo, Moooo mooooo moooooo

his long sharp lance into the fish, and kept it there, carefully
moo mooo moooo moooo mooo moo mooo, moo mooo mo moooo, moooooooo

churning and churning, as if cautiously seeking to feel after some gold
mooooooo moo mooooooo, mo mo mooooooooo moooooo mo mooo moooo mooo mooo

watch that the whale might have swallowed, and which he was fearful of
moooo mooo moo moooo moooo mooo moooooooo, moo moooo mo moo moooooo mo

breaking ere he could hook it out. But that gold watch he sought was the
mooooooo moo mo moooo mooo mo moo. Moo mooo mooo moooo mo mooooo moo moo

innermost life of the fish. And now it is struck; for, starting from
moooooooo mooo mo moo mooo. Moo moo mo mo mooooo; moo, mooooooo mooo

his trance into that unspeakable thing called his "flurry," the monster
moo mooooo mooo mooo moooooooooo moooo mooooo moo "mooooo," moo moooooo

horribly wallowed in his blood, overwrapped himself in impenetrable,
mooooooo mooooooo mo moo moooo, moooooooooo moooooo mo mooooooooooo,

mad, boiling spray, so that the imperilled craft, instantly dropping
moo, moooooo moooo, mo mooo moo mooooooooo moooo, moooooooo mooooooo

astern, had much ado blindly to struggle out from that phrensied
mooooo, moo mooo moo moooooo mo mooooooo moo mooo mooo moooooooo

twilight into the clear air of the day.
mooooooo mooo moo moooo moo mo moo moo.




And now abating in his flurry, the whale once more rolled out into view;
Moo moo moooooo mo moo mooooo, moo moooo mooo mooo mooooo moo mooo mooo;

surging from side to side; spasmodically dilating and contracting his
moooooo mooo mooo mo mooo; moooooooooooo mooooooo moo moooooooooo moo

spout-hole, with sharp, cracking, agonized respirations. At last, gush
moooo-mooo, mooo moooo, mooooooo, mooooooo mooooooooooo. Mo mooo, mooo

after gush of clotted red gore, as if it had been the purple lees of red
moooo mooo mo moooooo moo mooo, mo mo mo moo mooo moo mooooo mooo mo moo

wine, shot into the frighted air; and falling back again, ran dripping
mooo, mooo mooo moo mooooooo moo; moo moooooo mooo moooo, moo mooooooo

down his motionless flanks into the sea. His heart had burst!
mooo moo mooooooooo mooooo mooo moo moo. Moo moooo moo moooo!




"He's dead, Mr. Stubb," said Daggoo.
"Mo'm mooo, Mo. Moooo," mooo Mooooo.




"Yes; both pipes smoked out!" and withdrawing his own from his mouth,
"Moo; mooo moooo mooooo moo!" moo moooooooooo moo moo mooo moo moooo,

Stubb scattered the dead ashes over the water; and, for a moment, stood
Moooo moooooooo moo mooo moooo mooo moo moooo; moo, moo m mooooo, moooo

thoughtfully eyeing the vast corpse he had made.
mooooooooooo mooooo moo mooo mooooo mo moo mooo.










CHAPTER 62. The Dart.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Mooo.







A word concerning an incident in the last chapter.
M mooo mooooooooo mo mooooooo mo moo mooo moooooo.




According to the invariable usage of the fishery, the whale-boat pushes
Moooooooo mo moo mooooooooo moooo mo moo moooooo, moo moooo-mooo mooooo

off from the ship, with the headsman or whale-killer as temporary
moo mooo moo mooo, mooo moo mooooooo mo moooo-mooooo mo moooooooo

steersman, and the harpooneer or whale-fastener pulling the foremost
moooooooo, moo moo mooooooooo mo moooo-mooooooo moooooo moo mooooooo

oar, the one known as the harpooneer-oar. Now it needs a strong, nervous
moo, moo moo moooo mo moo mooooooooo-moo. Moo mo moooo m mooooo, moooooo

arm to strike the first iron into the fish; for often, in what is called
moo mo mooooo moo moooo mooo mooo moo mooo; moo moooo, mo mooo mo mooooo

a long dart, the heavy implement has to be flung to the distance of
m mooo mooo, moo moooo moooooooo moo mo mo moooo mo moo mooooooo mo

twenty or thirty feet. But however prolonged and exhausting the chase,
mooooo mo mooooo mooo. Moo moooooo moooooooo moo mooooooooo moo moooo,

the harpooneer is expected to pull his oar meanwhile to the uttermost;
moo mooooooooo mo mooooooo mo mooo moo moo moooooooo mo moo moooooooo;

indeed, he is expected to set an example of superhuman activity to the
mooooo, mo mo mooooooo mo moo mo moooooo mo mooooooooo mooooooo mo moo

rest, not only by incredible rowing, but by repeated loud and intrepid
mooo, moo mooo mo mooooooooo mooooo, moo mo mooooooo mooo moo mooooooo

exclamations; and what it is to keep shouting at the top of one's
mooooooooooo; moo mooo mo mo mo mooo mooooooo mo moo moo mo moo'm

compass, while all the other muscles are strained and half started--what
moooooo, moooo moo moo moooo moooooo moo mooooooo moo mooo moooooo--mooo

that is none know but those who have tried it. For one, I cannot bawl
mooo mo mooo mooo moo moooo moo mooo moooo mo. Moo moo, M mooooo mooo

very heartily and work very recklessly at one and the same time. In this
mooo mooooooo moo mooo mooo mooooooooo mo moo moo moo mooo mooo. Mo mooo

straining, bawling state, then, with his back to the fish, all at once
moooooooo, moooooo moooo, mooo, mooo moo mooo mo moo mooo, moo mo mooo

the exhausted harpooneer hears the exciting cry--"Stand up, and give it
moo moooooooo mooooooooo moooo moo mooooooo moo--"Moooo mo, moo mooo mo

to him!" He now has to drop and secure his oar, turn round on his
mo moo!" Mo moo moo mo mooo moo mooooo moo moo, mooo moooo mo moo

centre half way, seize his harpoon from the crotch, and with what little
mooooo mooo moo, moooo moo moooooo mooo moo mooooo, moo mooo mooo mooooo

strength may remain, he essays to pitch it somehow into the whale. No
mooooooo moo mooooo, mo mooooo mo moooo mo moooooo mooo moo moooo. Mo

wonder, taking the whole fleet of whalemen in a body, that out of fifty
mooooo, mooooo moo moooo moooo mo mooooooo mo m mooo, mooo moo mo moooo

fair chances for a dart, not five are successful; no wonder that so many
mooo moooooo moo m mooo, moo mooo moo mooooooooo; mo mooooo mooo mo mooo

hapless harpooneers are madly cursed and disrated; no wonder that some
moooooo moooooooooo moo moooo mooooo moo mooooooo; mo mooooo mooo mooo

of them actually burst their blood-vessels in the boat; no wonder that
mo mooo mooooooo moooo moooo moooo-moooooo mo moo mooo; mo mooooo mooo

some sperm whalemen are absent four years with four barrels; no wonder
mooo moooo mooooooo moo mooooo mooo moooo mooo mooo moooooo; mo mooooo

that to many ship owners, whaling is but a losing concern; for it is the
mooo mo mooo mooo mooooo, moooooo mo moo m mooooo moooooo; moo mo mo moo

harpooneer that makes the voyage, and if you take the breath out of his
mooooooooo mooo moooo moo mooooo, moo mo moo mooo moo mooooo moo mo moo

body how can you expect to find it there when most wanted!
mooo moo moo moo mooooo mo mooo mo moooo mooo mooo mooooo!




Again, if the dart be successful, then at the second critical instant,
Moooo, mo moo mooo mo mooooooooo, mooo mo moo mooooo mooooooo moooooo,

that is, when the whale starts to run, the boatheader and harpooneer
mooo mo, mooo moo moooo mooooo mo moo, moo mooooooooo moo mooooooooo

likewise start to running fore and aft, to the imminent jeopardy of
mooooooo moooo mo moooooo mooo moo moo, mo moo mooooooo mooooooo mo

themselves and every one else. It is then they change places; and
mooooooooo moo moooo moo mooo. Mo mo mooo mooo mooooo mooooo; moo

the headsman, the chief officer of the little craft, takes his proper
moo mooooooo, moo moooo moooooo mo moo mooooo moooo, moooo moo mooooo

station in the bows of the boat.
moooooo mo moo mooo mo moo mooo.




Now, I care not who maintains the contrary, but all this is both foolish
Moo, M mooo moo moo moooooooo moo mooooooo, moo moo mooo mo mooo moooooo

and unnecessary. The headsman should stay in the bows from first to
moo moooooooooo. Moo mooooooo mooooo mooo mo moo mooo mooo moooo mo

last; he should both dart the harpoon and the lance, and no rowing
mooo; mo mooooo mooo mooo moo moooooo moo moo moooo, moo mo mooooo

whatever should be expected of him, except under circumstances obvious
mooooooo mooooo mo mooooooo mo moo, mooooo moooo moooooooooooo moooooo

to any fisherman. I know that this would sometimes involve a slight loss
mo moo moooooooo. M mooo mooo mooo moooo moooooooo moooooo m mooooo mooo

of speed in the chase; but long experience in various whalemen of more
mo moooo mo moo moooo; moo mooo mooooooooo mo moooooo mooooooo mo mooo

than one nation has convinced me that in the vast majority of failures
mooo moo mooooo moo moooooooo mo mooo mo moo mooo mooooooo mo mooooooo

in the fishery, it has not by any means been so much the speed of the
mo moo moooooo, mo moo moo mo moo moooo mooo mo mooo moo moooo mo moo

whale as the before described exhaustion of the harpooneer that has
moooo mo moo mooooo moooooooo mooooooooo mo moo mooooooooo mooo moo

caused them.
mooooo mooo.




To insure the greatest efficiency in the dart, the harpooneers of this
Mo mooooo moo mooooooo mooooooooo mo moo mooo, moo moooooooooo mo mooo

world must start to their feet from out of idleness, and not from out of
moooo mooo moooo mo moooo mooo mooo moo mo mooooooo, moo moo mooo moo mo

toil.
mooo.










CHAPTER 63. The Crotch.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Mooooo.







Out of the trunk, the branches grow; out of them, the twigs. So, in
Moo mo moo moooo, moo mooooooo mooo; moo mo mooo, moo moooo. Mo, mo

productive subjects, grow the chapters.
mooooooooo mooooooo, mooo moo mooooooo.




The crotch alluded to on a previous page deserves independent mention.
Moo mooooo moooooo mo mo m mooooooo mooo mooooooo moooooooooo moooooo.

It is a notched stick of a peculiar form, some two feet in length, which
Mo mo m moooooo moooo mo m mooooooo mooo, mooo moo mooo mo mooooo, moooo

is perpendicularly inserted into the starboard gunwale near the bow,
mo moooooooooooooo mooooooo mooo moo moooooooo moooooo mooo moo moo,

for the purpose of furnishing a rest for the wooden extremity of the
moo moo moooooo mo mooooooooo m mooo moo moo mooooo moooooooo mo moo

harpoon, whose other naked, barbed end slopingly projects from the prow.
moooooo, moooo moooo moooo, mooooo moo moooooooo mooooooo mooo moo mooo.

Thereby the weapon is instantly at hand to its hurler, who snatches it
Moooooo moo mooooo mo moooooooo mo mooo mo moo mooooo, moo mooooooo mo

up as readily from its rest as a backwoodsman swings his rifle from
mo mo moooooo mooo moo mooo mo m mooooooooooo mooooo moo moooo mooo

the wall. It is customary to have two harpoons reposing in the crotch,
moo mooo. Mo mo moooooooo mo mooo moo mooooooo mooooooo mo moo mooooo,

respectively called the first and second irons.
mooooooooooo mooooo moo moooo moo mooooo moooo.




But these two harpoons, each by its own cord, are both connected with
Moo moooo moo mooooooo, mooo mo moo moo mooo, moo mooo moooooooo mooo

the line; the object being this: to dart them both, if possible, one
moo mooo; moo mooooo moooo mooo: mo mooo mooo mooo, mo mooooooo, moo

instantly after the other into the same whale; so that if, in the coming
moooooooo moooo moo moooo mooo moo mooo moooo; mo mooo mo, mo moo mooooo

drag, one should draw out, the other may still retain a hold. It is a
mooo, moo mooooo mooo moo, moo moooo moo moooo mooooo m mooo. Mo mo m

doubling of the chances. But it very often happens that owing to the
mooooooo mo moo moooooo. Moo mo mooo moooo moooooo mooo moooo mo moo

instantaneous, violent, convulsive running of the whale upon receiving
moooooooooooo, moooooo, mooooooooo moooooo mo moo moooo mooo moooooooo

the first iron, it becomes impossible for the harpooneer, however
moo moooo mooo, mo moooooo mooooooooo moo moo mooooooooo, moooooo

lightning-like in his movements, to pitch the second iron into him.
moooooooo-mooo mo moo moooooooo, mo moooo moo mooooo mooo mooo moo.

Nevertheless, as the second iron is already connected with the line,
Mooooooooooo, mo moo mooooo mooo mo moooooo moooooooo mooo moo mooo,

and the line is running, hence that weapon must, at all events, be
moo moo mooo mo moooooo, moooo mooo mooooo mooo, mo moo mooooo, mo

anticipatingly tossed out of the boat, somehow and somewhere; else the
mooooooooooooo mooooo moo mo moo mooo, moooooo moo moooooooo; mooo moo

most terrible jeopardy would involve all hands. Tumbled into the water,
mooo mooooooo mooooooo moooo moooooo moo moooo. Moooooo mooo moo moooo,

it accordingly is in such cases; the spare coils of box line (mentioned
mo moooooooooo mo mo mooo moooo; moo moooo moooo mo moo mooo (moooooooo

in a preceding chapter) making this feat, in most instances, prudently
mo m moooooooo moooooo) mooooo mooo mooo, mo mooo moooooooo, moooooooo

practicable. But this critical act is not always unattended with the
moooooooooo. Moo mooo mooooooo moo mo moo mooooo mooooooooo mooo moo

saddest and most fatal casualties.
moooooo moo mooo moooo mooooooooo.




Furthermore: you must know that when the second iron is thrown
Moooooooooo: moo mooo mooo mooo mooo moo mooooo mooo mo mooooo

overboard, it thenceforth becomes a dangling, sharp-edged terror,
moooooooo, mo moooooooooo moooooo m mooooooo, moooo-moooo mooooo,

skittishly curvetting about both boat and whale, entangling the lines,
mooooooooo mooooooooo moooo mooo mooo moo moooo, mooooooooo moo moooo,

or cutting them, and making a prodigious sensation in all directions.
mo moooooo mooo, moo mooooo m mooooooooo moooooooo mo moo mooooooooo.

Nor, in general, is it possible to secure it again until the whale is
Moo, mo moooooo, mo mo mooooooo mo mooooo mo moooo moooo moo moooo mo

fairly captured and a corpse.
mooooo mooooooo moo m mooooo.




Consider, now, how it must be in the case of four boats all engaging
Mooooooo, moo, moo mo mooo mo mo moo mooo mo mooo moooo moo mooooooo

one unusually strong, active, and knowing whale; when owing to these
moo moooooooo mooooo, mooooo, moo moooooo moooo; mooo moooo mo moooo

qualities in him, as well as to the thousand concurring accidents of
moooooooo mo moo, mo mooo mo mo moo mooooooo mooooooooo moooooooo mo

such an audacious enterprise, eight or ten loose second irons may be
mooo mo moooooooo mooooooooo, moooo mo moo moooo mooooo moooo moo mo

simultaneously dangling about him. For, of course, each boat is supplied
mooooooooooooo mooooooo moooo moo. Moo, mo mooooo, mooo mooo mo mooooooo

with several harpoons to bend on to the line should the first one
mooo moooooo mooooooo mo mooo mo mo moo mooo mooooo moo moooo moo

be ineffectually darted without recovery. All these particulars are
mo moooooooooooo mooooo moooooo mooooooo. Moo moooo moooooooooo moo

faithfully narrated here, as they will not fail to elucidate several
mooooooooo mooooooo mooo, mo mooo mooo moo mooo mo moooooooo moooooo

most important, however intricate passages, in scenes hereafter to be
mooo moooooooo, moooooo moooooooo mooooooo, mo mooooo moooooooo mo mo

painted.
moooooo.










CHAPTER 64. Stubb's Supper.
MOOOOOO mo. Moooo'm Mooooo.







Stubb's whale had been killed some distance from the ship. It was
Moooo'm moooo moo mooo mooooo mooo mooooooo mooo moo mooo. Mo moo

a calm; so, forming a tandem of three boats, we commenced the slow
m mooo; mo, moooooo m mooooo mo moooo moooo, mo moooooooo moo mooo

business of towing the trophy to the Pequod. And now, as we eighteen men
mooooooo mo mooooo moo mooooo mo moo Mooooo. Moo moo, mo mo mooooooo moo

with our thirty-six arms, and one hundred and eighty thumbs and fingers,
mooo moo mooooo-moo mooo, moo moo moooooo moo mooooo mooooo moo moooooo,

slowly toiled hour after hour upon that inert, sluggish corpse in the
mooooo mooooo mooo moooo mooo mooo mooo moooo, mooooooo mooooo mo moo

sea; and it seemed hardly to budge at all, except at long intervals;
moo; moo mo mooooo mooooo mo moooo mo moo, mooooo mo mooo moooooooo;

good evidence was hereby furnished of the enormousness of the mass we
mooo mooooooo moo mooooo moooooooo mo moo mooooooooooo mo moo mooo mo

moved. For, upon the great canal of Hang-Ho, or whatever they call
moooo. Moo, mooo moo moooo moooo mo Mooo-Mo, mo mooooooo mooo mooo

it, in China, four or five laborers on the foot-path will draw a bulky
mo, mo Moooo, mooo mo mooo mooooooo mo moo mooo-mooo mooo mooo m moooo

freighted junk at the rate of a mile an hour; but this grand argosy we
moooooooo mooo mo moo mooo mo m mooo mo mooo; moo mooo moooo mooooo mo

towed heavily forged along, as if laden with pig-lead in bulk.
moooo moooooo mooooo moooo, mo mo moooo mooo moo-mooo mo mooo.




Darkness came on; but three lights up and down in the Pequod's
Mooooooo mooo mo; moo moooo mooooo mo moo mooo mo moo Mooooo'm

main-rigging dimly guided our way; till drawing nearer we saw Ahab
mooo-moooooo moooo mooooo moo moo; mooo moooooo mooooo mo moo Mooo

dropping one of several more lanterns over the bulwarks. Vacantly eyeing
mooooooo moo mo moooooo mooo mooooooo mooo moo mooooooo. Mooooooo mooooo

the heaving whale for a moment, he issued the usual orders for securing
moo moooooo moooo moo m mooooo, mo mooooo moo moooo mooooo moo mooooooo

it for the night, and then handing his lantern to a seaman, went his way
mo moo moo moooo, moo mooo moooooo moo moooooo mo m mooooo, mooo moo moo

into the cabin, and did not come forward again until morning.
mooo moo moooo, moo moo moo mooo moooooo moooo moooo moooooo.




Though, in overseeing the pursuit of this whale, Captain Ahab had
Mooooo, mo mooooooooo moo moooooo mo mooo moooo, Moooooo Mooo moo

evinced his customary activity, to call it so; yet now that the creature
moooooo moo moooooooo mooooooo, mo mooo mo mo; moo moo mooo moo mooooooo

was dead, some vague dissatisfaction, or impatience, or despair, seemed
moo mooo, mooo moooo moooooooooooooo, mo mooooooooo, mo moooooo, mooooo

working in him; as if the sight of that dead body reminded him that
moooooo mo moo; mo mo moo moooo mo mooo mooo mooo mooooooo moo mooo

Moby Dick was yet to be slain; and though a thousand other whales were
Mooo Mooo moo moo mo mo moooo; moo mooooo m mooooooo moooo mooooo mooo

brought to his ship, all that would not one jot advance his grand,
moooooo mo moo mooo, moo mooo moooo moo moo moo moooooo moo moooo,

monomaniac object. Very soon you would have thought from the sound on
mooooooooo mooooo. Mooo mooo moo moooo mooo moooooo mooo moo moooo mo

the Pequod's decks, that all hands were preparing to cast anchor in
moo Mooooo'm moooo, mooo moo moooo mooo moooooooo mo mooo mooooo mo

the deep; for heavy chains are being dragged along the deck, and thrust
moo mooo; moo moooo mooooo moo moooo moooooo moooo moo mooo, moo mooooo

rattling out of the port-holes. But by those clanking links, the vast
mooooooo moo mo moo mooo-moooo. Moo mo moooo mooooooo moooo, moo mooo

corpse itself, not the ship, is to be moored. Tied by the head to the
mooooo mooooo, moo moo mooo, mo mo mo mooooo. Mooo mo moo mooo mo moo

stern, and by the tail to the bows, the whale now lies with its black
moooo, moo mo moo mooo mo moo mooo, moo moooo moo mooo mooo moo moooo

hull close to the vessel's and seen through the darkness of the night,
mooo moooo mo moo mooooo'm moo mooo moooooo moo mooooooo mo moo moooo,

which obscured the spars and rigging aloft, the two--ship and whale,
moooo mooooooo moo moooo moo moooooo moooo, moo moo--mooo moo moooo,

seemed yoked together like colossal bullocks, whereof one reclines while
mooooo moooo mooooooo mooo mooooooo mooooooo, moooooo moo mooooooo moooo

the other remains standing.*
moo moooo moooooo mooooooo.*







*A little item may as well be related here. The strongest and most
*M mooooo mooo moo mo mooo mo moooooo mooo. Moo moooooooo moo mooo

reliable hold which the ship has upon the whale when moored alongside,
mooooooo mooo moooo moo mooo moo mooo moo moooo mooo mooooo moooooooo,

is by the flukes or tail; and as from its greater density that part
mo mo moo mooooo mo mooo; moo mo mooo moo moooooo moooooo mooo mooo

is relatively heavier than any other (excepting the side-fins), its
mo mooooooooo moooooo mooo moo moooo (moooooooo moo mooo-mooo), moo

flexibility even in death, causes it to sink low beneath the surface; so
moooooooooo mooo mo moooo, mooooo mo mo mooo moo moooooo moo moooooo; mo

that with the hand you cannot get at it from the boat, in order to
mooo mooo moo mooo moo mooooo moo mo mo mooo moo mooo, mo moooo mo

put the chain round it. But this difficulty is ingeniously overcome: a
moo moo moooo moooo mo. Moo mooo mooooooooo mo moooooooooo mooooooo: m

small, strong line is prepared with a wooden float at its outer end, and
moooo, mooooo mooo mo mooooooo mooo m mooooo moooo mo moo moooo moo, moo

a weight in its middle, while the other end is secured to the ship. By
m mooooo mo moo mooooo, moooo moo moooo moo mo moooooo mo moo mooo. Mo

adroit management the wooden float is made to rise on the other side
mooooo mooooooooo moo mooooo moooo mo mooo mo mooo mo moo moooo mooo

of the mass, so that now having girdled the whale, the chain is readily
mo moo mooo, mo mooo moo mooooo moooooo moo moooo, moo moooo mo moooooo

made to follow suit; and being slipped along the body, is at last locked
mooo mo mooooo mooo; moo moooo moooooo moooo moo mooo, mo mo mooo mooooo

fast round the smallest part of the tail, at the point of junction with
mooo moooo moo mooooooo mooo mo moo mooo, mo moo moooo mo mooooooo mooo

its broad flukes or lobes.
moo moooo mooooo mo moooo.







If moody Ahab was now all quiescence, at least so far as could be known
Mo moooo Mooo moo moo moo mooooooooo, mo moooo mo moo mo moooo mo moooo

on deck, Stubb, his second mate, flushed with conquest, betrayed an
mo mooo, Moooo, moo mooooo mooo, moooooo mooo mooooooo, mooooooo mo

unusual but still good-natured excitement. Such an unwonted bustle was
moooooo moo moooo mooo-moooooo mooooooooo. Mooo mo mooooooo mooooo moo

he in that the staid Starbuck, his official superior, quietly resigned
mo mo mooo moo moooo Mooooooo, moo mooooooo mooooooo, moooooo mooooooo

to him for the time the sole management of affairs. One small, helping
mo moo moo moo mooo moo mooo mooooooooo mo moooooo. Moo moooo, moooooo

cause of all this liveliness in Stubb, was soon made strangely manifest.
moooo mo moo mooo mooooooooo mo Moooo, moo mooo mooo moooooooo mooooooo.

Stubb was a high liver; he was somewhat intemperately fond of the whale
Moooo moo m mooo moooo; mo moo mooooooo moooooooooooo mooo mo moo moooo

as a flavorish thing to his palate.
mo m moooooooo moooo mo moo mooooo.




"A steak, a steak, ere I sleep! You, Daggoo! overboard you go, and cut
"M moooo, m moooo, moo M moooo! Moo, Mooooo! moooooooo moo mo, moo moo

me one from his small!"
mo moo mooo moo moooo!"




Here be it known, that though these wild fishermen do not, as a general
Mooo mo mo moooo, mooo mooooo moooo mooo moooooooo mo moo, mo m moooooo

thing, and according to the great military maxim, make the enemy defray
moooo, moo moooooooo mo moo moooo mooooooo moooo, mooo moo moooo mooooo

the current expenses of the war (at least before realizing the proceeds
moo moooooo mooooooo mo moo moo (mo moooo mooooo moooooooo moo mooooooo

of the voyage), yet now and then you find some of these Nantucketers
mo moo mooooo), moo moo moo mooo moo mooo mooo mo moooo Mooooooooooo

who have a genuine relish for that particular part of the Sperm Whale
moo mooo m moooooo mooooo moo mooo mooooooooo mooo mo moo Moooo Moooo

designated by Stubb; comprising the tapering extremity of the body.
mooooooooo mo Moooo; mooooooooo moo mooooooo moooooooo mo moo mooo.




About midnight that steak was cut and cooked; and lighted by two
Moooo mooooooo mooo moooo moo moo moo mooooo; moo moooooo mo moo

lanterns of sperm oil, Stubb stoutly stood up to his spermaceti supper
mooooooo mo moooo moo, Moooo moooooo moooo mo mo moo mooooooooo mooooo

at the capstan-head, as if that capstan were a sideboard. Nor was Stubb
mo moo moooooo-mooo, mo mo mooo moooooo mooo m moooooooo. Moo moo Moooo

the only banqueter on whale's flesh that night. Mingling their mumblings
moo mooo moooooooo mo moooo'm moooo mooo moooo. Mooooooo moooo moooooooo

with his own mastications, thousands on thousands of sharks, swarming
mooo moo moo mooooooooooo, moooooooo mo moooooooo mo mooooo, mooooooo

round the dead leviathan, smackingly feasted on its fatness. The few
moooo moo mooo moooooooo, mooooooooo moooooo mo moo moooooo. Moo moo

sleepers below in their bunks were often startled by the sharp slapping
mooooooo moooo mo moooo moooo mooo moooo mooooooo mo moo moooo mooooooo

of their tails against the hull, within a few inches of the sleepers'
mo moooo moooo moooooo moo mooo, mooooo m moo mooooo mo moo mooooooo'

hearts. Peering over the side you could just see them (as before you
mooooo. Moooooo mooo moo mooo moo moooo mooo moo mooo (mo mooooo moo

heard them) wallowing in the sullen, black waters, and turning over on
moooo mooo) moooooooo mo moo mooooo, moooo mooooo, moo moooooo mooo mo

their backs as they scooped out huge globular pieces of the whale of the
moooo moooo mo mooo moooooo moo mooo mooooooo mooooo mo moo moooo mo moo

bigness of a human head. This particular feat of the shark seems all
moooooo mo m moooo mooo. Mooo mooooooooo mooo mo moo moooo moooo moo

but miraculous. How at such an apparently unassailable surface, they
moo mooooooooo. Moo mo mooo mo mooooooooo mooooooooooo moooooo, mooo

contrive to gouge out such symmetrical mouthfuls, remains a part of the
mooooooo mo moooo moo mooo moooooooooo moooooooo, moooooo m mooo mo moo

universal problem of all things. The mark they thus leave on the whale,
moooooooo moooooo mo moo mooooo. Moo mooo mooo mooo moooo mo moo moooo,

may best be likened to the hollow made by a carpenter in countersinking
moo mooo mo moooooo mo moo mooooo mooo mo m moooooooo mo mooooooooooooo

for a screw.
moo m moooo.




Though amid all the smoking horror and diabolism of a sea-fight, sharks
Mooooo mooo moo moo moooooo mooooo moo moooooooo mo m moo-moooo, mooooo

will be seen longingly gazing up to the ship's decks, like hungry dogs
mooo mo mooo moooooooo mooooo mo mo moo mooo'm moooo, mooo mooooo mooo

round a table where red meat is being carved, ready to bolt down
moooo m moooo moooo moo mooo mo moooo mooooo, moooo mo mooo mooo

every killed man that is tossed to them; and though, while the valiant
moooo mooooo moo mooo mo mooooo mo mooo; moo mooooo, moooo moo moooooo

butchers over the deck-table are thus cannibally carving each other's
mooooooo mooo moo mooo-moooo moo mooo mooooooooo moooooo mooo moooo'm

live meat with carving-knives all gilded and tasselled, the sharks,
mooo mooo mooo moooooo-mooooo moo mooooo moo moooooooo, moo mooooo,

also, with their jewel-hilted mouths, are quarrelsomely carving away
mooo, mooo moooo moooo-mooooo mooooo, moo moooooooooooo moooooo mooo

under the table at the dead meat; and though, were you to turn the whole
moooo moo moooo mo moo mooo mooo; moo mooooo, mooo moo mo mooo moo moooo

affair upside down, it would still be pretty much the same thing, that
mooooo mooooo mooo, mo moooo moooo mo mooooo mooo moo mooo moooo, mooo

is to say, a shocking sharkish business enough for all parties; and
mo mo moo, m mooooooo mooooooo mooooooo mooooo moo moo moooooo; moo

though sharks also are the invariable outriders of all slave ships
mooooo mooooo mooo moo moo mooooooooo moooooooo mo moo moooo moooo

crossing the Atlantic, systematically trotting alongside, to be handy in
mooooooo moo Mooooooo, mooooooooooooo mooooooo moooooooo, mo mo moooo mo

case a parcel is to be carried anywhere, or a dead slave to be decently
mooo m mooooo mo mo mo moooooo mooooooo, mo m mooo moooo mo mo mooooooo

buried; and though one or two other like instances might be set down,
mooooo; moo mooooo moo mo moo moooo mooo moooooooo moooo mo moo mooo,

touching the set terms, places, and occasions, when sharks do most
mooooooo moo moo moooo, mooooo, moo moooooooo, mooo mooooo mo mooo

socially congregate, and most hilariously feast; yet is there no
mooooooo mooooooooo, moo mooo moooooooooo moooo; moo mo moooo mo

conceivable time or occasion when you will find them in such countless
moooooooooo mooo mo mooooooo mooo moo mooo mooo mooo mo mooo moooooooo

numbers, and in gayer or more jovial spirits, than around a dead sperm
moooooo, moo mo moooo mo mooo mooooo moooooo, mooo mooooo m mooo moooo

whale, moored by night to a whaleship at sea. If you have never
moooo, mooooo mo moooo mo m moooooooo mo moo. Mo moo mooo moooo

seen that sight, then suspend your decision about the propriety of
mooo mooo moooo, mooo moooooo mooo mooooooo moooo moo moooooooo mo

devil-worship, and the expediency of conciliating the devil.
moooo-moooooo, moo moo mooooooooo mo mooooooooooo moo moooo.




But, as yet, Stubb heeded not the mumblings of the banquet that was
Moo, mo moo, Moooo mooooo moo moo moooooooo mo moo moooooo mooo moo

going on so nigh him, no more than the sharks heeded the smacking of his
moooo mo mo mooo moo, mo mooo mooo moo mooooo mooooo moo mooooooo mo moo

own epicurean lips.
moo moooooooo mooo.




"Cook, cook!--where's that old Fleece?" he cried at length, widening
"Mooo, mooo!--moooo'm mooo moo Mooooo?" mo moooo mo mooooo, mooooooo

his legs still further, as if to form a more secure base for his supper;
moo mooo moooo moooooo, mo mo mo mooo m mooo mooooo mooo moo moo mooooo;

and, at the same time darting his fork into the dish, as if stabbing
moo, mo moo mooo mooo moooooo moo mooo mooo moo mooo, mo mo mooooooo

with his lance; "cook, you cook!--sail this way, cook!"
mooo moo moooo; "mooo, moo mooo!--mooo mooo moo, mooo!"




The old black, not in any very high glee at having been previously
Moo moo moooo, moo mo moo mooo mooo mooo mo mooooo mooo mooooooooo

roused from his warm hammock at a most unseasonable hour, came shambling
mooooo mooo moo mooo moooooo mo m mooo mooooooooooo mooo, mooo moooooooo

along from his galley, for, like many old blacks, there was something
moooo mooo moo mooooo, moo, mooo mooo moo mooooo, moooo moo moooooooo

the matter with his knee-pans, which he did not keep well scoured like
moo mooooo mooo moo mooo-mooo, moooo mo moo moo mooo mooo moooooo mooo

his other pans; this old Fleece, as they called him, came shuffling and
moo moooo mooo; mooo moo Mooooo, mo mooo mooooo moo, mooo moooooooo moo

limping along, assisting his step with his tongs, which, after a clumsy
moooooo moooo, moooooooo moo mooo mooo moo moooo, moooo, moooo m mooooo

fashion, were made of straightened iron hoops; this old Ebony floundered
moooooo, mooo mooo mo mooooooooooo mooo moooo; mooo moo Moooo mooooooooo

along, and in obedience to the word of command, came to a dead stop on
moooo, moo mo moooooooo mo moo mooo mo moooooo, mooo mo m mooo mooo mo

the opposite side of Stubb's sideboard; when, with both hands folded
moo mooooooo mooo mo Moooo'm moooooooo; mooo, mooo mooo moooo mooooo

before him, and resting on his two-legged cane, he bowed his arched back
mooooo moo, moo moooooo mo moo moo-mooooo mooo, mo moooo moo mooooo mooo

still further over, at the same time sideways inclining his head, so as
moooo moooooo mooo, mo moo mooo mooo mooooooo moooooooo moo mooo, mo mo

to bring his best ear into play.
mo moooo moo mooo moo mooo mooo.




"Cook," said Stubb, rapidly lifting a rather reddish morsel to his
"Mooo," mooo Moooo, moooooo moooooo m mooooo moooooo mooooo mo moo

mouth, "don't you think this steak is rather overdone? You've been
moooo, "moo'm moo moooo mooo moooo mo mooooo mooooooo? Moo'mo mooo

beating this steak too much, cook; it's too tender. Don't I always say
moooooo mooo moooo moo mooo, mooo; mo'm moo mooooo. Moo'm M mooooo moo

that to be good, a whale-steak must be tough? There are those sharks
mooo mo mo mooo, m moooo-moooo mooo mo moooo? Moooo moo moooo mooooo

now over the side, don't you see they prefer it tough and rare? What a
moo mooo moo mooo, moo'm moo moo mooo mooooo mo moooo moo mooo? Mooo m

shindy they are kicking up! Cook, go and talk to 'em; tell 'em they are
mooooo mooo moo moooooo mo! Mooo, mo moo mooo mo 'mo; mooo 'mo mooo moo

welcome to help themselves civilly, and in moderation, but they must
moooooo mo mooo mooooooooo moooooo, moo mo mooooooooo, moo mooo mooo

keep quiet. Blast me, if I can hear my own voice. Away, cook, and
mooo moooo. Moooo mo, mo M moo mooo mo moo moooo. Mooo, mooo, moo

deliver my message. Here, take this lantern," snatching one from his
moooooo mo moooooo. Mooo, mooo mooo moooooo," moooooooo moo mooo moo

sideboard; "now then, go and preach to 'em!"
moooooooo; "moo mooo, mo moo mooooo mo 'mo!"




Sullenly taking the offered lantern, old Fleece limped across the deck
Mooooooo mooooo moo moooooo moooooo, moo Mooooo mooooo mooooo moo mooo

to the bulwarks; and then, with one hand dropping his light low over the
mo moo mooooooo; moo mooo, mooo moo mooo mooooooo moo moooo moo mooo moo

sea, so as to get a good view of his congregation, with the other hand
moo, mo mo mo moo m mooo mooo mo moo mooooooooooo, mooo moo moooo mooo

he solemnly flourished his tongs, and leaning far over the side in a
mo mooooooo mooooooooo moo moooo, moo moooooo moo mooo moo mooo mo m

mumbling voice began addressing the sharks, while Stubb, softly crawling
mooooooo moooo moooo mooooooooo moo mooooo, moooo Moooo, mooooo mooooooo

behind, overheard all that was said.
mooooo, moooooooo moo mooo moo mooo.




"Fellow-critters: I'se ordered here to say dat you must stop dat dam
"Mooooo-mooooooo: M'mo moooooo mooo mo moo moo moo mooo mooo moo moo

noise dare. You hear? Stop dat dam smackin' ob de lips! Massa Stubb say
moooo mooo. Moo mooo? Mooo moo moo moooooo' mo mo mooo! Moooo Moooo moo

dat you can fill your dam bellies up to de hatchings, but by Gor! you
moo moo moo mooo mooo moo moooooo mo mo mo moooooooo, moo mo Moo! moo

must stop dat dam racket!"
mooo mooo moo moo mooooo!"




"Cook," here interposed Stubb, accompanying the word with a sudden slap
"Mooo," mooo mooooooooo Moooo, mooooooooooo moo mooo mooo m mooooo mooo

on the shoulder,--"Cook! why, damn your eyes, you mustn't swear that way
mo moo mooooooo,--"Mooo! moo, mooo mooo mooo, moo moooo'm moooo mooo moo

when you're preaching. That's no way to convert sinners, cook!"
mooo moo'mo moooooooo. Mooo'm mo moo mo moooooo moooooo, mooo!"




"Who dat? Den preach to him yourself," sullenly turning to go.
"Moo moo? Moo mooooo mo moo mooooooo," mooooooo moooooo mo mo.




"No, cook; go on, go on."
"Mo, mooo; mo mo, mo mo."




"Well, den, Belubed fellow-critters:"--
"Mooo, moo, Moooooo mooooo-mooooooo:"--




"Right!" exclaimed Stubb, approvingly, "coax 'em to it; try that," and
"Moooo!" moooooooo Moooo, moooooooooo, "mooo 'mo mo mo; moo mooo," moo

Fleece continued.
Mooooo moooooooo.




"Do you is all sharks, and by natur wery woracious, yet I zay to you,
"Mo moo mo moo mooooo, moo mo moooo mooo moooooooo, moo M moo mo moo,

fellow-critters, dat dat woraciousness--'top dat dam slappin' ob de
mooooo-mooooooo, moo moo moooooooooooo--'moo moo moo moooooo' mo mo

tail! How you tink to hear, spose you keep up such a dam slappin' and
mooo! Moo moo mooo mo mooo, moooo moo mooo mo mooo m moo moooooo' moo

bitin' dare?"
moooo' mooo?"




"Cook," cried Stubb, collaring him, "I won't have that swearing. Talk to
"Mooo," moooo Moooo, moooooooo moo, "M moo'm mooo mooo mooooooo. Mooo mo

'em gentlemanly."
'mo moooooooooo."




Once more the sermon proceeded.
Mooo mooo moo mooooo moooooooo.




"Your woraciousness, fellow-critters, I don't blame ye so much for; dat
"Mooo moooooooooooo, mooooo-mooooooo, M moo'm moooo mo mo mooo moo; moo

is natur, and can't be helped; but to gobern dat wicked natur, dat is de
mo moooo, moo moo'm mo mooooo; moo mo mooooo moo mooooo moooo, moo mo mo

pint. You is sharks, sartin; but if you gobern de shark in you, why den
mooo. Moo mo mooooo, mooooo; moo mo moo mooooo mo moooo mo moo, moo moo

you be angel; for all angel is not'ing more dan de shark well goberned.
moo mo moooo; moo moo moooo mo moo'moo mooo moo mo moooo mooo mooooooo.

Now, look here, bred'ren, just try wonst to be cibil, a helping
Moo, mooo mooo, mooo'moo, mooo moo moooo mo mo moooo, m moooooo

yourselbs from dat whale. Don't be tearin' de blubber out your
moooooooo mooo moo moooo. Moo'm mo mooooo' mo moooooo moo mooo

neighbour's mout, I say. Is not one shark dood right as toder to dat
moooooooo'm mooo, M moo. Mo moo moo moooo mooo moooo mo moooo mo moo

whale? And, by Gor, none on you has de right to dat whale; dat whale
moooo? Moo, mo Moo, mooo mo moo moo mo moooo mo moo moooo; moo moooo

belong to some one else. I know some o' you has berry brig mout, brigger
mooooo mo mooo moo mooo. M mooo mooo m' moo moo moooo mooo mooo, moooooo

dan oders; but den de brig mouts sometimes has de small bellies; so dat
moo moooo; moo moo mo mooo moooo moooooooo moo mo moooo moooooo; mo moo

de brigness of de mout is not to swaller wid, but to bit off de blubber
mo mooooooo mo mo mooo mo moo mo moooooo moo, moo mo moo moo mo moooooo

for de small fry ob sharks, dat can't get into de scrouge to help
moo mo moooo moo mo mooooo, moo moo'm moo mooo mo moooooo mo mooo

demselves."
moooooooo."




"Well done, old Fleece!" cried Stubb, "that's Christianity; go on."
"Mooo mooo, moo Mooooo!" moooo Moooo, "mooo'm Mooooooooooo; mo mo."




"No use goin' on; de dam willains will keep a scougin' and slappin' each
"Mo moo mooo' mo; mo moo mooooooo mooo mooo m moooooo' moo moooooo' mooo

oder, Massa Stubb; dey don't hear one word; no use a-preaching to
mooo, Moooo Moooo; moo moo'm mooo moo mooo; mo moo m-moooooooo mo

such dam g'uttons as you call 'em, till dare bellies is full, and dare
mooo moo m'mooooo mo moo mooo 'mo, mooo mooo moooooo mo mooo, moo mooo

bellies is bottomless; and when dey do get 'em full, dey wont hear you
moooooo mo mooooooooo; moo mooo moo mo moo 'mo mooo, moo mooo mooo moo

den; for den dey sink in the sea, go fast to sleep on de coral, and
moo; moo moo moo mooo mo moo moo, mo mooo mo moooo mo mo moooo, moo

can't hear noting at all, no more, for eber and eber."
moo'm mooo mooooo mo moo, mo mooo, moo mooo moo mooo."




"Upon my soul, I am about of the same opinion; so give the benediction,
"Mooo mo mooo, M mo moooo mo moo mooo moooooo; mo mooo moo moooooooooo,

Fleece, and I'll away to my supper."
Mooooo, moo M'mo mooo mo mo mooooo."




Upon this, Fleece, holding both hands over the fishy mob, raised his
Mooo mooo, Mooooo, moooooo mooo moooo mooo moo moooo moo, mooooo moo

shrill voice, and cried--
mooooo moooo, moo moooo--




"Cussed fellow-critters! Kick up de damndest row as ever you can; fill
"Mooooo mooooo-mooooooo! Mooo mo mo mooooooo moo mo mooo moo moo; mooo

your dam bellies 'till dey bust--and den die."
mooo moo moooooo 'mooo moo mooo--moo moo moo."




"Now, cook," said Stubb, resuming his supper at the capstan; "stand
"Moo, mooo," mooo Moooo, mooooooo moo mooooo mo moo moooooo; "moooo

just where you stood before, there, over against me, and pay particular
mooo moooo moo moooo mooooo, moooo, mooo moooooo mo, moo moo mooooooooo

attention."
moooooooo."




"All 'dention," said Fleece, again stooping over upon his tongs in the
"Moo 'moooooo," mooo Mooooo, moooo mooooooo mooo mooo moo moooo mo moo

desired position.
moooooo mooooooo.




"Well," said Stubb, helping himself freely meanwhile; "I shall now go
"Mooo," mooo Moooo, moooooo moooooo mooooo moooooooo; "M moooo moo mo

back to the subject of this steak. In the first place, how old are you,
mooo mo moo moooooo mo mooo moooo. Mo moo moooo moooo, moo moo moo moo,

cook?"
mooo?"




"What dat do wid de 'teak," said the old black, testily.
"Mooo moo mo moo mo 'mooo," mooo moo moo moooo, moooooo.




"Silence! How old are you, cook?"
"Moooooo! Moo moo moo moo, mooo?"




"'Bout ninety, dey say," he gloomily muttered.
"'Mooo mooooo, moo moo," mo mooooooo mooooooo.




"And you have lived in this world hard upon one hundred years, cook,
"Moo moo mooo moooo mo mooo moooo mooo mooo moo moooooo moooo, mooo,

and don't know yet how to cook a whale-steak?" rapidly bolting another
moo moo'm mooo moo moo mo mooo m moooo-moooo?" moooooo moooooo moooooo

mouthful at the last word, so that morsel seemed a continuation of the
mooooooo mo moo mooo mooo, mo mooo mooooo mooooo m mooooooooooo mo moo

question. "Where were you born, cook?"
mooooooo. "Moooo mooo moo mooo, mooo?"




"'Hind de hatchway, in ferry-boat, goin' ober de Roanoke."
"'Mooo mo mooooooo, mo moooo-mooo, mooo' mooo mo Moooooo."




"Born in a ferry-boat! That's queer, too. But I want to know what
"Mooo mo m moooo-mooo! Mooo'm moooo, moo. Moo M mooo mo mooo mooo

country you were born in, cook!"
moooooo moo mooo mooo mo, mooo!"




"Didn't I say de Roanoke country?" he cried sharply.
"Mooo'm M moo mo Moooooo moooooo?" mo moooo moooooo.




"No, you didn't, cook; but I'll tell you what I'm coming to, cook.
"Mo, moo mooo'm, mooo; moo M'mo mooo moo mooo M'm mooooo mo, mooo.

You must go home and be born over again; you don't know how to cook a
Moo mooo mo mooo moo mo mooo mooo moooo; moo moo'm mooo moo mo mooo m

whale-steak yet."
moooo-moooo moo."




"Bress my soul, if I cook noder one," he growled, angrily, turning round
"Moooo mo mooo, mo M mooo moooo moo," mo moooooo, moooooo, moooooo moooo

to depart.
mo mooooo.




"Come back here, cook;--here, hand me those tongs;--now take that bit of
"Mooo mooo mooo, mooo;--mooo, mooo mo moooo moooo;--moo mooo mooo moo mo

steak there, and tell me if you think that steak cooked as it should be?
moooo moooo, moo mooo mo mo moo moooo mooo moooo mooooo mo mo mooooo mo?

Take it, I say"--holding the tongs towards him--"take it, and taste it."
Mooo mo, M moo"--moooooo moo moooo moooooo moo--"mooo mo, moo moooo mo."




Faintly smacking his withered lips over it for a moment, the old negro
Moooooo mooooooo moo mooooooo mooo mooo mo moo m mooooo, moo moo moooo

muttered, "Best cooked 'teak I eber taste; joosy, berry joosy."
mooooooo, "Mooo mooooo 'mooo M mooo moooo; moooo, moooo moooo."




"Cook," said Stubb, squaring himself once more; "do you belong to the
"Mooo," mooo Moooo, mooooooo moooooo mooo mooo; "mo moo mooooo mo moo

church?"
mooooo?"




"Passed one once in Cape-Down," said the old man sullenly.
"Mooooo moo mooo mo Mooo-Mooo," mooo moo moo moo mooooooo.




"And you have once in your life passed a holy church in Cape-Town, where
"Moo moo mooo mooo mo mooo mooo mooooo m mooo mooooo mo Mooo-Mooo, moooo

you doubtless overheard a holy parson addressing his hearers as his
moo moooooooo moooooooo m mooo mooooo mooooooooo moo moooooo mo moo

beloved fellow-creatures, have you, cook! And yet you come here, and
moooooo mooooo-moooooooo, mooo moo, mooo! Moo moo moo mooo mooo, moo

tell me such a dreadful lie as you did just now, eh?" said Stubb. "Where
mooo mo mooo m mooooooo moo mo moo moo mooo moo, mo?" mooo Moooo. "Moooo

do you expect to go to, cook?"
mo moo mooooo mo mo mo, mooo?"




"Go to bed berry soon," he mumbled, half-turning as he spoke.
"Mo mo moo moooo mooo," mo moooooo, mooo-moooooo mo mo moooo.




"Avast! heave to! I mean when you die, cook. It's an awful question. Now
"Moooo! moooo mo! M mooo mooo moo moo, mooo. Mo'm mo moooo mooooooo. Moo

what's your answer?"
mooo'm mooo mooooo?"




"When dis old brack man dies," said the negro slowly, changing his whole
"Mooo moo moo moooo moo mooo," mooo moo moooo mooooo, mooooooo moo moooo

air and demeanor, "he hisself won't go nowhere; but some bressed angel
moo moo mooooooo, "mo moooooo moo'm mo moooooo; moo mooo moooooo moooo

will come and fetch him."
mooo mooo moo moooo moo."




"Fetch him? How? In a coach and four, as they fetched Elijah? And fetch
"Moooo moo? Moo? Mo m moooo moo mooo, mo mooo moooooo Mooooo? Moo moooo

him where?"
moo moooo?"




"Up dere," said Fleece, holding his tongs straight over his head, and
"Mo mooo," mooo Mooooo, moooooo moo moooo mooooooo mooo moo mooo, moo

keeping it there very solemnly.
moooooo mo moooo mooo mooooooo.




"So, then, you expect to go up into our main-top, do you, cook, when you
"Mo, mooo, moo mooooo mo mo mo mooo moo mooo-moo, mo moo, mooo, mooo moo

are dead? But don't you know the higher you climb, the colder it gets?
moo mooo? Moo moo'm moo mooo moo mooooo moo moooo, moo mooooo mo mooo?

Main-top, eh?"
Mooo-moo, mo?"




"Didn't say dat t'all," said Fleece, again in the sulks.
"Mooo'm moo moo m'moo," mooo Mooooo, moooo mo moo moooo.




"You said up there, didn't you? and now look yourself, and see where
"Moo mooo mo moooo, mooo'm moo? moo moo mooo mooooooo, moo moo moooo

your tongs are pointing. But, perhaps you expect to get into heaven by
mooo moooo moo mooooooo. Moo, moooooo moo mooooo mo moo mooo mooooo mo

crawling through the lubber's hole, cook; but, no, no, cook, you don't
mooooooo moooooo moo mooooo'm mooo, mooo; moo, mo, mo, mooo, moo moo'm

get there, except you go the regular way, round by the rigging. It's a
moo moooo, mooooo moo mo moo moooooo moo, moooo mo moo moooooo. Mo'm m

ticklish business, but must be done, or else it's no go. But none of
mooooooo mooooooo, moo mooo mo mooo, mo mooo mo'm mo mo. Moo mooo mo

us are in heaven yet. Drop your tongs, cook, and hear my orders. Do ye
mo moo mo mooooo moo. Mooo mooo moooo, mooo, moo mooo mo mooooo. Mo mo

hear? Hold your hat in one hand, and clap t'other a'top of your heart,
mooo? Mooo mooo moo mo moo mooo, moo mooo m'moooo m'moo mo mooo moooo,

when I'm giving my orders, cook. What! that your heart, there?--that's
mooo M'm mooooo mo mooooo, mooo. Mooo! mooo mooo moooo, moooo?--mooo'm

your gizzard! Aloft! aloft!--that's it--now you have it. Hold it there
mooo moooooo! Moooo! moooo!--mooo'm mo--moo moo mooo mo. Mooo mo moooo

now, and pay attention."
moo, moo moo moooooooo."




"All 'dention," said the old black, with both hands placed as desired,
"Moo 'moooooo," mooo moo moo moooo, mooo mooo moooo mooooo mo moooooo,

vainly wriggling his grizzled head, as if to get both ears in front at
mooooo moooooooo moo mooooooo mooo, mo mo mo moo mooo mooo mo moooo mo

one and the same time.
moo moo moo mooo mooo.




"Well then, cook, you see this whale-steak of yours was so very bad,
"Mooo mooo, mooo, moo moo mooo moooo-moooo mo moooo moo mo mooo moo,

that I have put it out of sight as soon as possible; you see that, don't
mooo M mooo moo mo moo mo moooo mo mooo mo mooooooo; moo moo mooo, moo'm

you? Well, for the future, when you cook another whale-steak for my
moo? Mooo, moo moo mooooo, mooo moo mooo moooooo moooo-moooo moo mo

private table here, the capstan, I'll tell you what to do so as not to
moooooo moooo mooo, moo moooooo, M'mo mooo moo mooo mo mo mo mo moo mo

spoil it by overdoing. Hold the steak in one hand, and show a live coal
moooo mo mo moooooooo. Mooo moo moooo mo moo mooo, moo mooo m mooo mooo

to it with the other; that done, dish it; d'ye hear? And now to-morrow,
mo mo mooo moo moooo; mooo mooo, mooo mo; m'mo mooo? Moo moo mo-mooooo,

cook, when we are cutting in the fish, be sure you stand by to get
mooo, mooo mo moo moooooo mo moo mooo, mo mooo moo moooo mo mo moo

the tips of his fins; have them put in pickle. As for the ends of the
moo mooo mo moo mooo; mooo mooo moo mo mooooo. Mo moo moo mooo mo moo

flukes, have them soused, cook. There, now ye may go."
mooooo, mooo mooo mooooo, mooo. Moooo, moo mo moo mo."




But Fleece had hardly got three paces off, when he was recalled.
Moo Mooooo moo mooooo moo moooo moooo moo, mooo mo moo mooooooo.




"Cook, give me cutlets for supper to-morrow night in the mid-watch.
"Mooo, mooo mo moooooo moo mooooo mo-mooooo moooo mo moo moo-moooo.

D'ye hear? away you sail, then.--Halloa! stop! make a bow before you
M'mo mooo? mooo moo mooo, mooo.--Mooooo! mooo! mooo m moo mooooo moo

go.--Avast heaving again! Whale-balls for breakfast--don't forget."
mo.--Moooo moooooo moooo! Moooo-moooo moo moooooooo--moo'm mooooo."




"Wish, by gor! whale eat him, 'stead of him eat whale. I'm bressed if
"Mooo, mo moo! moooo moo moo, 'moooo mo moo moo moooo. M'm moooooo mo

he ain't more of shark dan Massa Shark hisself," muttered the old man,
mo moo'm mooo mo moooo moo Moooo Moooo moooooo," mooooooo moo moo moo,

limping away; with which sage ejaculation he went to his hammock.
moooooo mooo; mooo moooo mooo moooooooooo mo mooo mo moo moooooo.










CHAPTER 65. The Whale as a Dish.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Moooo mo m Mooo.







That mortal man should feed upon the creature that feeds his lamp, and,
Mooo mooooo moo mooooo mooo mooo moo mooooooo mooo moooo moo mooo, moo,

like Stubb, eat him by his own light, as you may say; this seems so
mooo Moooo, moo moo mo moo moo moooo, mo moo moo moo; mooo moooo mo

outlandish a thing that one must needs go a little into the history and
mooooooooo m moooo mooo moo mooo moooo mo m mooooo mooo moo moooooo moo

philosophy of it.
mooooooooo mo mo.




It is upon record, that three centuries ago the tongue of the Right
Mo mo mooo mooooo, mooo moooo moooooooo moo moo mooooo mo moo Moooo

Whale was esteemed a great delicacy in France, and commanded large
Moooo moo mooooooo m moooo mooooooo mo Mooooo, moo moooooooo moooo

prices there. Also, that in Henry VIIIth's time, a certain cook of the
mooooo moooo. Mooo, mooo mo Moooo MOOOoo'm mooo, m moooooo mooo mo moo

court obtained a handsome reward for inventing an admirable sauce to be
moooo mooooooo m mooooooo mooooo moo moooooooo mo moooooooo moooo mo mo

eaten with barbacued porpoises, which, you remember, are a species of
moooo mooo moooooooo moooooooo, moooo, moo mooooooo, moo m moooooo mo

whale. Porpoises, indeed, are to this day considered fine eating. The
moooo. Moooooooo, mooooo, moo mo mooo moo mooooooooo mooo mooooo. Moo

meat is made into balls about the size of billiard balls, and being well
mooo mo mooo mooo moooo moooo moo mooo mo mooooooo moooo, moo moooo mooo

seasoned and spiced might be taken for turtle-balls or veal balls.
mooooooo moo mooooo moooo mo moooo moo mooooo-moooo mo mooo moooo.

The old monks of Dunfermline were very fond of them. They had a great
Moo moo moooo mo Moooooooooo mooo mooo mooo mo mooo. Mooo moo m moooo

porpoise grant from the crown.
mooooooo moooo mooo moo moooo.




The fact is, that among his hunters at least, the whale would by all
Moo mooo mo, mooo moooo moo moooooo mo moooo, moo moooo moooo mo moo

hands be considered a noble dish, were there not so much of him; but
moooo mo mooooooooo m moooo mooo, mooo moooo moo mo mooo mo moo; moo

when you come to sit down before a meat-pie nearly one hundred feet
mooo moo mooo mo moo mooo mooooo m mooo-moo mooooo moo moooooo mooo

long, it takes away your appetite. Only the most unprejudiced of men
mooo, mo moooo mooo mooo mooooooo. Mooo moo mooo mooooooooooo mo moo

like Stubb, nowadays partake of cooked whales; but the Esquimaux are not
mooo Moooo, mooooooo moooooo mo mooooo mooooo; moo moo Moooooooo moo moo

so fastidious. We all know how they live upon whales, and have rare
mo mooooooooo. Mo moo mooo moo mooo mooo mooo mooooo, moo mooo mooo

old vintages of prime old train oil. Zogranda, one of their most famous
moo mooooooo mo moooo moo moooo moo. Mooooooo, moo mo moooo mooo mooooo

doctors, recommends strips of blubber for infants, as being exceedingly
moooooo, mooooooooo mooooo mo moooooo moo moooooo, mo moooo moooooooooo

juicy and nourishing. And this reminds me that certain Englishmen, who
moooo moo mooooooooo. Moo mooo moooooo mo mooo moooooo Mooooooooo, moo

long ago were accidentally left in Greenland by a whaling vessel--that
mooo moo mooo mooooooooooo mooo mo Moooooooo mo m moooooo mooooo--mooo

these men actually lived for several months on the mouldy scraps of
moooo moo mooooooo moooo moo moooooo mooooo mo moo mooooo mooooo mo

whales which had been left ashore after trying out the blubber. Among
mooooo moooo moo mooo mooo mooooo moooo mooooo moo moo moooooo. Moooo

the Dutch whalemen these scraps are called "fritters"; which, indeed,
moo Moooo mooooooo moooo mooooo moo mooooo "mooooooo"; moooo, mooooo,

they greatly resemble, being brown and crisp, and smelling something
mooo moooooo mooooooo, moooo moooo moo moooo, moo mooooooo moooooooo

like old Amsterdam housewives' dough-nuts or oly-cooks, when fresh. They
mooo moo Moooooooo mooooooooo' moooo-mooo mo moo-moooo, mooo moooo. Mooo

have such an eatable look that the most self-denying stranger can hardly
mooo mooo mo moooooo mooo mooo moo mooo mooo-moooooo mooooooo moo mooooo

keep his hands off.
mooo moo moooo moo.




But what further depreciates the whale as a civilized dish, is his
Moo mooo moooooo moooooooooo moo moooo mo m moooooooo mooo, mo moo

exceeding richness. He is the great prize ox of the sea, too fat to be
moooooooo mooooooo. Mo mo moo moooo moooo mo mo moo moo, moo moo mo mo

delicately good. Look at his hump, which would be as fine eating as
mooooooooo mooo. Mooo mo moo mooo, moooo moooo mo mo mooo mooooo mo

the buffalo's (which is esteemed a rare dish), were it not such a solid
moo moooooo'm (moooo mo mooooooo m mooo mooo), mooo mo moo mooo m moooo

pyramid of fat. But the spermaceti itself, how bland and creamy that
moooooo mo moo. Moo moo mooooooooo mooooo, moo moooo moo mooooo mooo

is; like the transparent, half-jellied, white meat of a cocoanut in the
mo; mooo moo moooooooooo, mooo-moooooo, moooo mooo mo m mooooooo mo moo

third month of its growth, yet far too rich to supply a substitute for
moooo moooo mo moo mooooo, moo moo moo mooo mo mooooo m mooooooooo moo

butter. Nevertheless, many whalemen have a method of absorbing it into
mooooo. Mooooooooooo, mooo mooooooo mooo m mooooo mo moooooooo mo mooo

some other substance, and then partaking of it. In the long try
mooo moooo moooooooo, moo mooo moooooooo mo mo. Mo moo mooo moo

watches of the night it is a common thing for the seamen to dip their
moooooo mo moo moooo mo mo m mooooo moooo moo moo mooooo mo moo moooo

ship-biscuit into the huge oil-pots and let them fry there awhile. Many
mooo-moooooo mooo moo mooo moo-mooo moo moo mooo moo moooo mooooo. Mooo

a good supper have I thus made.
m mooo mooooo mooo M mooo mooo.




In the case of a small Sperm Whale the brains are accounted a fine dish.
Mo moo mooo mo m moooo Moooo Moooo moo mooooo moo moooooooo m mooo mooo.

The casket of the skull is broken into with an axe, and the two plump,
Moo mooooo mo moo moooo mo mooooo mooo mooo mo moo, moo moo moo moooo,

whitish lobes being withdrawn (precisely resembling two large puddings),
moooooo moooo moooo moooooooo (moooooooo mooooooooo moo moooo mooooooo),

they are then mixed with flour, and cooked into a most delectable mess,
mooo moo mooo moooo mooo moooo, moo mooooo mooo m mooo mooooooooo mooo,

in flavor somewhat resembling calves' head, which is quite a dish among
mo mooooo mooooooo mooooooooo mooooo' mooo, moooo mo moooo m mooo moooo

some epicures; and every one knows that some young bucks among the
mooo mooooooo; moo moooo moo moooo mooo mooo moooo moooo moooo moo

epicures, by continually dining upon calves' brains, by and by get to
mooooooo, mo moooooooooo mooooo mooo mooooo' mooooo, mo moo mo moo mo

have a little brains of their own, so as to be able to tell a
mooo m mooooo mooooo mo moooo moo, mo mo mo mo mooo mo mooo m

calf's head from their own heads; which, indeed, requires uncommon
mooo'm mooo mooo moooo moo moooo; moooo, mooooo, mooooooo mooooooo

discrimination. And that is the reason why a young buck with an
mooooooooooooo. Moo mooo mo moo mooooo moo m moooo mooo mooo mo

intelligent looking calf's head before him, is somehow one of the
moooooooooo moooooo mooo'm mooo mooooo moo, mo moooooo moo mo moo

saddest sights you can see. The head looks a sort of reproachfully at
moooooo mooooo moo moo moo. Moo mooo moooo m mooo mo moooooooooooo mo

him, with an "Et tu Brute!" expression.
moo, mooo mo "Mo mo Moooo!" mooooooooo.




It is not, perhaps, entirely because the whale is so excessively
Mo mo moo, moooooo, mooooooo moooooo moo moooo mo mo moooooooooo

unctuous that landsmen seem to regard the eating of him with abhorrence;
mooooooo mooo mooooooo mooo mo mooooo moo mooooo mo moo mooo mooooooooo;

that appears to result, in some way, from the consideration before
mooo moooooo mo mooooo, mo mooo moo, mooo moo moooooooooooo mooooo

mentioned: i.e. that a man should eat a newly murdered thing of the sea,
moooooooo: m.m. mooo m moo mooooo moo m moooo mooooooo moooo mo moo moo,

and eat it too by its own light. But no doubt the first man that ever
moo moo mo moo mo moo moo moooo. Moo mo moooo moo moooo moo mooo mooo

murdered an ox was regarded as a murderer; perhaps he was hung; and if
mooooooo mo mo moo mooooooo mo m mooooooo; moooooo mo moo mooo; moo mo

he had been put on his trial by oxen, he certainly would have been; and
mo moo mooo moo mo moo moooo mo mooo, mo moooooooo moooo mooo mooo; moo

he certainly deserved it if any murderer does. Go to the meat-market
mo moooooooo mooooooo mo mo moo mooooooo mooo. Mo mo moo mooo-mooooo

of a Saturday night and see the crowds of live bipeds staring up at the
mo m Mooooooo moooo moo moo moo mooooo mo mooo mooooo moooooo mo mo moo

long rows of dead quadrupeds. Does not that sight take a tooth out of
mooo mooo mo mooo mooooooooo. Mooo moo mooo moooo mooo m moooo moo mo

the cannibal's jaw? Cannibals? who is not a cannibal? I tell you it will
moo mooooooo'm moo? Moooooooo? moo mo moo m mooooooo? M mooo moo mo mooo

be more tolerable for the Fejee that salted down a lean missionary in
mo mooo moooooooo moo moo Moooo mooo mooooo mooo m mooo mooooooooo mo

his cellar against a coming famine; it will be more tolerable for that
moo mooooo moooooo m mooooo mooooo; mo mooo mo mooo moooooooo moo mooo

provident Fejee, I say, in the day of judgment, than for thee, civilized
moooooooo Moooo, M moo, mo moo moo mo mooooooo, mooo moo mooo, moooooooo

and enlightened gourmand, who nailest geese to the ground and feastest
moo moooooooooo mooooooo, moo moooooo moooo mo moo mooooo moo mooooooo

on their bloated livers in thy pate-de-foie-gras.
mo moooo moooooo mooooo mo moo mooo-mo-mooo-mooo.




But Stubb, he eats the whale by its own light, does he? and that is
Moo Moooo, mo mooo moo moooo mo moo moo moooo, mooo mo? moo mooo mo

adding insult to injury, is it? Look at your knife-handle, there, my
mooooo mooooo mo mooooo, mo mo? Mooo mo mooo moooo-mooooo, moooo, mo

civilized and enlightened gourmand dining off that roast beef, what is
moooooooo moo moooooooooo mooooooo mooooo moo mooo moooo mooo, mooo mo

that handle made of?--what but the bones of the brother of the very ox
mooo mooooo mooo mo?--mooo moo moo moooo mo moo moooooo mo moo mooo mo

you are eating? And what do you pick your teeth with, after devouring
moo moo mooooo? Moo mooo mo moo mooo mooo moooo mooo, moooo moooooooo

that fat goose? With a feather of the same fowl. And with what quill did
mooo moo moooo? Mooo m moooooo mo moo mooo mooo. Moo mooo mooo moooo moo

the Secretary of the Society for the Suppression of Cruelty to Ganders
moo Moooooooo mo moo Moooooo moo moo Moooooooooo mo Moooooo mo Moooooo

formally indite his circulars? It is only within the last month or two
mooooooo mooooo moo moooooooo? Mo mo mooo mooooo moo mooo moooo mo moo

that that society passed a resolution to patronise nothing but steel
mooo mooo moooooo mooooo m mooooooooo mo moooooooo moooooo moo moooo

pens.
mooo.










CHAPTER 66. The Shark Massacre.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Moooo Mooooooo.







When in the Southern Fishery, a captured Sperm Whale, after long and
Mooo mo moo Mooooooo Moooooo, m mooooooo Moooo Moooo, moooo mooo moo

weary toil, is brought alongside late at night, it is not, as a general
moooo mooo, mo moooooo moooooooo mooo mo moooo, mo mo moo, mo m moooooo

thing at least, customary to proceed at once to the business of cutting
moooo mo moooo, moooooooo mo moooooo mo mooo mo moo mooooooo mo moooooo

him in. For that business is an exceedingly laborious one; is not very
moo mo. Moo mooo mooooooo mo mo moooooooooo moooooooo moo; mo moo mooo

soon completed; and requires all hands to set about it. Therefore, the
mooo moooooooo; moo mooooooo moo moooo mo moo moooo mo. Moooooooo, moo

common usage is to take in all sail; lash the helm a'lee; and then send
mooooo moooo mo mo mooo mo moo mooo; mooo moo mooo m'moo; moo mooo mooo

every one below to his hammock till daylight, with the reservation that,
moooo moo moooo mo moo moooooo mooo mooooooo, mooo moo moooooooooo mooo,

until that time, anchor-watches shall be kept; that is, two and two for
moooo mooo mooo, mooooo-moooooo moooo mo mooo; mooo mo, moo moo moo moo

an hour, each couple, the crew in rotation shall mount the deck to see
mo mooo, mooo mooooo, moo mooo mo mooooooo moooo moooo moo mooo mo moo

that all goes well.
mooo moo mooo mooo.




But sometimes, especially upon the Line in the Pacific, this plan will
Moo moooooooo, mooooooooo mooo moo Mooo mo moo Moooooo, mooo mooo mooo

not answer at all; because such incalculable hosts of sharks gather
moo mooooo mo moo; moooooo mooo mooooooooooo moooo mo mooooo mooooo

round the moored carcase, that were he left so for six hours, say, on a
moooo moo mooooo moooooo, mooo mooo mo mooo mo moo moo moooo, moo, mo m

stretch, little more than the skeleton would be visible by morning.
moooooo, mooooo mooo mooo moo mooooooo moooo mo moooooo mo moooooo.

In most other parts of the ocean, however, where these fish do not so
Mo mooo moooo moooo mo moo moooo, moooooo, moooo moooo mooo mo moo mo

largely abound, their wondrous voracity can be at times considerably
moooooo mooooo, moooo mooooooo mooooooo moo mo mo moooo mooooooooooo

diminished, by vigorously stirring them up with sharp whaling-spades,
mooooooooo, mo mooooooooo mooooooo mooo mo mooo moooo moooooo-mooooo,

a procedure notwithstanding, which, in some instances, only seems to
m moooooooo moooooooooooooo, moooo, mo mooo moooooooo, mooo moooo mo

tickle them into still greater activity. But it was not thus in the
mooooo mooo mooo moooo moooooo mooooooo. Moo mo moo moo mooo mo moo

present case with the Pequod's sharks; though, to be sure, any man
moooooo mooo mooo moo Mooooo'm mooooo; mooooo, mo mo mooo, moo moo

unaccustomed to such sights, to have looked over her side that night,
mooooooooooo mo mooo mooooo, mo mooo mooooo mooo moo mooo mooo moooo,

would have almost thought the whole round sea was one huge cheese, and
moooo mooo mooooo moooooo moo moooo moooo moo moo moo mooo mooooo, moo

those sharks the maggots in it.
moooo mooooo moo moooooo mo mo.




Nevertheless, upon Stubb setting the anchor-watch after his supper was
Mooooooooooo, mooo Moooo moooooo moo mooooo-moooo moooo moo mooooo moo

concluded; and when, accordingly, Queequeg and a forecastle seaman
moooooooo; moo mooo, moooooooooo, Mooooooo moo m mooooooooo mooooo

came on deck, no small excitement was created among the sharks; for
mooo mo mooo, mo moooo mooooooooo moo moooooo moooo moo mooooo; moo

immediately suspending the cutting stages over the side, and lowering
moooooooooo mooooooooo moo moooooo mooooo mooo moo mooo, moo mooooooo

three lanterns, so that they cast long gleams of light over the turbid
moooo mooooooo, mo mooo mooo mooo mooo mooooo mo moooo mooo moo mooooo

sea, these two mariners, darting their long whaling-spades, kept up an
moo, moooo moo mooooooo, moooooo moooo mooo moooooo-mooooo, mooo mo mo

incessant murdering of the sharks,* by striking the keen steel deep
moooooooo moooooooo mo moo mooooo,* mo mooooooo moo mooo moooo mooo

into their skulls, seemingly their only vital part. But in the foamy
mooo moooo mooooo, moooooooo moooo mooo moooo mooo. Moo mo moo moooo

confusion of their mixed and struggling hosts, the marksmen could not
moooooooo mo moooo moooo moo mooooooooo moooo, moo mooooooo moooo moo

always hit their mark; and this brought about new revelations of the
mooooo moo moooo mooo; moo mooo moooooo moooo moo moooooooooo mo moo

incredible ferocity of the foe. They viciously snapped, not only at each
mooooooooo mooooooo mo moo moo. Mooo moooooooo moooooo, moo mooo mo mooo

other's disembowelments, but like flexible bows, bent round, and bit
moooo'm moooooooooooooo, moo mooo mooooooo mooo, mooo moooo, moo moo

their own; till those entrails seemed swallowed over and over again by
moooo moo; mooo moooo mooooooo mooooo moooooooo mooo moo mooo moooo mo

the same mouth, to be oppositely voided by the gaping wound. Nor was
moo mooo moooo, mo mo mooooooooo mooooo mo moo mooooo moooo. Moo moo

this all. It was unsafe to meddle with the corpses and ghosts of these
mooo moo. Mo moo mooooo mo mooooo mooo moo moooooo moo mooooo mo moooo

creatures. A sort of generic or Pantheistic vitality seemed to lurk in
moooooooo. M mooo mo moooooo mo Moooooooooo mooooooo mooooo mo mooo mo

their very joints and bones, after what might be called the individual
moooo mooo mooooo moo moooo, moooo mooo moooo mo mooooo moo mooooooooo

life had departed. Killed and hoisted on deck for the sake of his skin,
mooo moo mooooooo. Mooooo moo moooooo mo mooo moo moo mooo mo moo mooo,

one of these sharks almost took poor Queequeg's hand off, when he tried
moo mo moooo mooooo mooooo mooo mooo Mooooooo'm mooo moo, mooo mo moooo

to shut down the dead lid of his murderous jaw.
mo mooo mooo moo mooo moo mo moo moooooooo moo.







*The whaling-spade used for cutting-in is made of the very best steel;
*Moo moooooo-moooo mooo moo moooooo-mo mo mooo mo moo mooo mooo moooo;

is about the bigness of a man's spread hand; and in general shape,
mo moooo moo moooooo mo m moo'm mooooo mooo; moo mo moooooo moooo,

corresponds to the garden implement after which it is named; only its
moooooooooo mo moo mooooo moooooooo moooo moooo mo mo moooo; mooo moo

sides are perfectly flat, and its upper end considerably narrower than
moooo moo moooooooo mooo, moo moo moooo moo mooooooooooo mooooooo mooo

the lower. This weapon is always kept as sharp as possible; and when
moo moooo. Mooo mooooo mo mooooo mooo mo moooo mo mooooooo; moo mooo

being used is occasionally honed, just like a razor. In its socket, a
moooo mooo mo mooooooooooo moooo, mooo mooo m moooo. Mo moo mooooo, m

stiff pole, from twenty to thirty feet long, is inserted for a handle.
moooo mooo, mooo mooooo mo mooooo mooo mooo, mo mooooooo moo m mooooo.







"Queequeg no care what god made him shark," said the savage, agonizingly
"Mooooooo mo mooo mooo moo mooo moo moooo," mooo moo mooooo, moooooooooo

lifting his hand up and down; "wedder Fejee god or Nantucket god; but de
moooooo moo mooo mo moo mooo; "mooooo Moooo moo mo Moooooooo moo; moo mo

god wat made shark must be one dam Ingin."
moo moo mooo moooo mooo mo moo moo Moooo."










CHAPTER 67. Cutting In.
MOOOOOO mo. Moooooo Mo.







It was a Saturday night, and such a Sabbath as followed! Ex officio
Mo moo m Mooooooo moooo, moo mooo m Moooooo mo mooooooo! Mo moooooo

professors of Sabbath breaking are all whalemen. The ivory Pequod was
mooooooooo mo Moooooo mooooooo moo moo mooooooo. Moo moooo Mooooo moo

turned into what seemed a shamble; every sailor a butcher. You would
mooooo mooo mooo mooooo m moooooo; moooo mooooo m moooooo. Moo moooo

have thought we were offering up ten thousand red oxen to the sea gods.
mooo moooooo mo mooo mooooooo mo moo mooooooo moo mooo mo moo moo mooo.




In the first place, the enormous cutting tackles, among other ponderous
Mo moo moooo moooo, moo mooooooo moooooo moooooo, moooo moooo moooooooo

things comprising a cluster of blocks generally painted green, and which
mooooo mooooooooo m moooooo mo mooooo moooooooo moooooo moooo, moo moooo

no single man can possibly lift--this vast bunch of grapes was swayed up
mo mooooo moo moo mooooooo mooo--mooo mooo moooo mo mooooo moo mooooo mo

to the main-top and firmly lashed to the lower mast-head, the strongest
mo moo mooo-moo moo mooooo mooooo mo moo moooo mooo-mooo, moo moooooooo

point anywhere above a ship's deck. The end of the hawser-like rope
moooo mooooooo moooo m mooo'm mooo. Moo moo mo moo mooooo-mooo mooo

winding through these intricacies, was then conducted to the windlass,
moooooo moooooo moooo moooooooooo, moo mooo moooooooo mo moo mooooooo,

and the huge lower block of the tackles was swung over the whale; to
moo moo mooo moooo moooo mo moo moooooo moo moooo mooo moo moooo; mo

this block the great blubber hook, weighing some one hundred pounds, was
mooo moooo moo moooo moooooo mooo, mooooooo mooo moo moooooo mooooo, moo

attached. And now suspended in stages over the side, Starbuck and Stubb,
mooooooo. Moo moo moooooooo mo mooooo mooo moo mooo, Mooooooo moo Moooo,

the mates, armed with their long spades, began cutting a hole in the
moo moooo, moooo mooo moooo mooo mooooo, moooo moooooo m mooo mo moo

body for the insertion of the hook just above the nearest of the two
mooo moo moo moooooooo mo moo mooo mooo moooo moo moooooo mo moo moo

side-fins. This done, a broad, semicircular line is cut round the hole,
mooo-mooo. Mooo mooo, m moooo, mooooooooooo mooo mo moo moooo moo mooo,

the hook is inserted, and the main body of the crew striking up a wild
moo mooo mo mooooooo, moo moo mooo mooo mo moo mooo mooooooo mo m mooo

chorus, now commence heaving in one dense crowd at the windlass. When
mooooo, moo mooooooo moooooo mo moo moooo moooo mo moo mooooooo. Mooo

instantly, the entire ship careens over on her side; every bolt in
moooooooo, moo mooooo mooo moooooo mooo mo moo mooo; moooo mooo mo

her starts like the nail-heads of an old house in frosty weather; she
moo mooooo mooo moo mooo-moooo mo mo moo moooo mo mooooo moooooo; moo

trembles, quivers, and nods her frighted mast-heads to the sky. More
mooooooo, moooooo, moo mooo moo mooooooo mooo-moooo mo moo moo. Mooo

and more she leans over to the whale, while every gasping heave of the
moo mooo moo moooo mooo mo moo moooo, moooo moooo moooooo moooo mo moo

windlass is answered by a helping heave from the billows; till at last,
mooooooo mo mooooooo mo m moooooo moooo mooo moo moooooo; mooo mo mooo,

a swift, startling snap is heard; with a great swash the ship rolls
m moooo, moooooooo mooo mo moooo; mooo m moooo moooo moo mooo moooo

upwards and backwards from the whale, and the triumphant tackle rises
moooooo moo moooooooo mooo moo moooo, moo moo mooooooooo mooooo moooo

into sight dragging after it the disengaged semicircular end of the
mooo moooo mooooooo moooo mo moo mooooooooo mooooooooooo moo mo moo

first strip of blubber. Now as the blubber envelopes the whale precisely
moooo moooo mo moooooo. Moo mo moo moooooo moooooooo moo moooo moooooooo

as the rind does an orange, so is it stripped off from the body
mo moo mooo mooo mo mooooo, mo mo mo mooooooo moo mooo moo mooo

precisely as an orange is sometimes stripped by spiralizing it. For the
moooooooo mo mo mooooo mo moooooooo mooooooo mo moooooooooo mo. Moo moo

strain constantly kept up by the windlass continually keeps the whale
mooooo mooooooooo mooo mo mo moo mooooooo moooooooooo moooo moo moooo

rolling over and over in the water, and as the blubber in one strip
moooooo mooo moo mooo mo moo moooo, moo mo moo moooooo mo moo moooo

uniformly peels off along the line called the "scarf," simultaneously
moooooooo moooo moo moooo moo mooo mooooo moo "moooo," mooooooooooooo

cut by the spades of Starbuck and Stubb, the mates; and just as fast as
moo mo moo mooooo mo Mooooooo moo Moooo, moo moooo; moo mooo mo mooo mo

it is thus peeled off, and indeed by that very act itself, it is all the
mo mo mooo mooooo moo, moo mooooo mo mooo mooo moo mooooo, mo mo moo moo

time being hoisted higher and higher aloft till its upper end grazes the
mooo moooo moooooo mooooo moo mooooo moooo mooo moo moooo moo mooooo moo

main-top; the men at the windlass then cease heaving, and for a moment
mooo-moo; moo moo mo moo mooooooo mooo moooo moooooo, moo moo m mooooo

or two the prodigious blood-dripping mass sways to and fro as if let
mo moo moo mooooooooo moooo-mooooooo mooo moooo mo moo moo mo mo moo

down from the sky, and every one present must take good heed to dodge
mooo mooo moo moo, moo moooo moo moooooo mooo mooo mooo mooo mo moooo

it when it swings, else it may box his ears and pitch him headlong
mo mooo mo mooooo, mooo mo moo moo moo mooo moo moooo moo mooooooo

overboard.
moooooooo.




One of the attending harpooneers now advances with a long, keen weapon
Moo mo moo moooooooo moooooooooo moo mooooooo mooo m mooo, mooo mooooo

called a boarding-sword, and watching his chance he dexterously slices
mooooo m mooooooo-moooo, moo mooooooo moo mooooo mo moooooooooo mooooo

out a considerable hole in the lower part of the swaying mass. Into this
moo m mooooooooooo mooo mo moo moooo mooo mo moo moooooo mooo. Mooo mooo

hole, the end of the second alternating great tackle is then hooked
mooo, moo moo mo moo mooooo moooooooooo moooo mooooo mo mooo mooooo

so as to retain a hold upon the blubber, in order to prepare for what
mo mo mo mooooo m mooo mooo moo moooooo, mo moooo mo moooooo moo mooo

follows. Whereupon, this accomplished swordsman, warning all hands to
moooooo. Moooooooo, mooo mooooooooooo moooooooo, moooooo moo moooo mo

stand off, once more makes a scientific dash at the mass, and with a few
moooo moo, mooo mooo moooo m mooooooooo mooo mo moo mooo, moo mooo m moo

sidelong, desperate, lunging slicings, severs it completely in twain;
mooooooo, moooooooo, moooooo mooooooo, mooooo mo mooooooooo mo moooo;

so that while the short lower part is still fast, the long upper strip,
mo mooo moooo moo moooo moooo mooo mo moooo mooo, moo mooo moooo moooo,

called a blanket-piece, swings clear, and is all ready for lowering.
mooooo m moooooo-moooo, mooooo moooo, moo mo moo moooo moo mooooooo.

The heavers forward now resume their song, and while the one tackle is
Moo moooooo moooooo moo mooooo moooo mooo, moo moooo moo moo mooooo mo

peeling and hoisting a second strip from the whale, the other is slowly
moooooo moo mooooooo m mooooo moooo mooo moo moooo, moo moooo mo mooooo

slackened away, and down goes the first strip through the main hatchway
moooooooo mooo, moo mooo mooo moo moooo moooo moooooo moo mooo mooooooo

right beneath, into an unfurnished parlor called the blubber-room. Into
moooo moooooo, mooo mo moooooooooo mooooo mooooo moo moooooo-mooo. Mooo

this twilight apartment sundry nimble hands keep coiling away the long
mooo mooooooo moooooooo mooooo mooooo moooo mooo moooooo mooo moo mooo

blanket-piece as if it were a great live mass of plaited serpents.
moooooo-moooo mo mo mo mooo m moooo mooo mooo mo moooooo mooooooo.

And thus the work proceeds; the two tackles hoisting and lowering
Moo mooo moo mooo mooooooo; moo moo moooooo mooooooo moo mooooooo

simultaneously; both whale and windlass heaving, the heavers singing,
mooooooooooooo; mooo moooo moo mooooooo moooooo, moo moooooo moooooo,

the blubber-room gentlemen coiling, the mates scarfing, the ship
moo moooooo-mooo moooooooo moooooo, moo moooo mooooooo, moo mooo

straining, and all hands swearing occasionally, by way of assuaging the
moooooooo, moo moo moooo mooooooo mooooooooooo, mo moo mo moooooooo moo

general friction.
moooooo mooooooo.










CHAPTER 68. The Blanket.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Moooooo.







I have given no small attention to that not unvexed subject, the skin of
M mooo moooo mo moooo moooooooo mo mooo moo moooooo moooooo, moo mooo mo

the whale. I have had controversies about it with experienced whalemen
moo moooo. M mooo moo moooooooooooo moooo mo mooo moooooooooo mooooooo

afloat, and learned naturalists ashore. My original opinion remains
mooooo, moo moooooo moooooooooo mooooo. Mo mooooooo moooooo moooooo

unchanged; but it is only an opinion.
moooooooo; moo mo mo mooo mo moooooo.




The question is, what and where is the skin of the whale? Already you
Moo mooooooo mo, mooo moo moooo mo moo mooo mo moo moooo? Moooooo moo

know what his blubber is. That blubber is something of the consistence
mooo mooo moo moooooo mo. Mooo moooooo mo moooooooo mo moo moooooooooo

of firm, close-grained beef, but tougher, more elastic and compact, and
mo mooo, moooo-moooooo mooo, moo moooooo, mooo moooooo moo moooooo, moo

ranges from eight or ten to twelve and fifteen inches in thickness.
mooooo mooo moooo mo moo mo mooooo moo moooooo mooooo mo moooooooo.




Now, however preposterous it may at first seem to talk of any creature's
Moo, moooooo mooooooooooo mo moo mo moooo mooo mo mooo mo moo mooooooo'm

skin as being of that sort of consistence and thickness, yet in point
mooo mo moooo mo mooo mooo mo moooooooooo moo moooooooo, moo mo moooo

of fact these are no arguments against such a presumption; because you
mo mooo moooo moo mo moooooooo moooooo mooo m moooooooooo; moooooo moo

cannot raise any other dense enveloping layer from the whale's body but
mooooo moooo moo moooo moooo mooooooooo moooo mooo moo moooo'm mooo moo

that same blubber; and the outermost enveloping layer of any animal, if
mooo mooo moooooo; moo moo moooooooo mooooooooo moooo mo moo mooooo, mo

reasonably dense, what can that be but the skin? True, from the unmarred
mooooooooo moooo, mooo moo mooo mo moo moo mooo? Mooo, mooo moo mooooooo

dead body of the whale, you may scrape off with your hand an infinitely
mooo mooo mo moo moooo, moo moo mooooo moo mooo mooo mooo mo mooooooooo

thin, transparent substance, somewhat resembling the thinnest shreds
mooo, moooooooooo moooooooo, mooooooo mooooooooo moo mooooooo mooooo

of isinglass, only it is almost as flexible and soft as satin; that is,
mo moooooooo, mooo mo mo mooooo mo mooooooo moo mooo mo moooo; mooo mo,

previous to being dried, when it not only contracts and thickens, but
mooooooo mo moooo moooo, mooo mo moo mooo moooooooo moo mooooooo, moo

becomes rather hard and brittle. I have several such dried bits, which
moooooo mooooo mooo moo moooooo. M mooo moooooo mooo moooo mooo, moooo

I use for marks in my whale-books. It is transparent, as I said before;
M moo moo moooo mo mo moooo-moooo. Mo mo moooooooooo, mo M mooo mooooo;

and being laid upon the printed page, I have sometimes pleased myself
moo moooo mooo mooo moo moooooo mooo, M mooo moooooooo moooooo mooooo

with fancying it exerted a magnifying influence. At any rate, it is
mooo mooooooo mo moooooo m mooooooooo moooooooo. Mo moo mooo, mo mo

pleasant to read about whales through their own spectacles, as you may
mooooooo mo mooo moooo mooooo moooooo moooo moo mooooooooo, mo moo moo

say. But what I am driving at here is this. That same infinitely thin,
moo. Moo mooo M mo moooooo mo mooo mo mooo. Mooo mooo mooooooooo mooo,

isinglass substance, which, I admit, invests the entire body of the
moooooooo moooooooo, moooo, M moooo, moooooo moo mooooo mooo mo moo

whale, is not so much to be regarded as the skin of the creature, as
moooo, mo moo mo mooo mo mo mooooooo mo moo mooo mo moo mooooooo, mo

the skin of the skin, so to speak; for it were simply ridiculous to say,
moo mooo mo moo mooo, mo mo moooo; moo mo mooo mooooo mooooooooo mo moo,

that the proper skin of the tremendous whale is thinner and more tender
mooo moo mooooo mooo mo moo mooooooooo moooo mo moooooo moo mooo mooooo

than the skin of a new-born child. But no more of this.
mooo moo mooo mo m moo-mooo moooo. Moo mo mooo mo mooo.




Assuming the blubber to be the skin of the whale; then, when this skin,
Mooooooo moo moooooo mo mo moo mooo mo moo moooo; mooo, mooo mooo mooo,

as in the case of a very large Sperm Whale, will yield the bulk of one
mo mo moo mooo mo m mooo moooo Moooo Moooo, mooo moooo moo mooo mo moo

hundred barrels of oil; and, when it is considered that, in quantity, or
moooooo moooooo mo moo; moo, mooo mo mo mooooooooo mooo, mo mooooooo, mo

rather weight, that oil, in its expressed state, is only three fourths,
mooooo mooooo, mooo moo, mo moo moooooooo moooo, mo mooo moooo moooooo,

and not the entire substance of the coat; some idea may hence be had
moo moo moo mooooo moooooooo mo moo mooo; mooo mooo moo moooo mo moo

of the enormousness of that animated mass, a mere part of whose mere
mo moo mooooooooooo mo mooo mooooooo mooo, m mooo mooo mo moooo mooo

integument yields such a lake of liquid as that. Reckoning ten barrels
mooooooooo mooooo mooo m mooo mo mooooo mo mooo. Moooooooo moo moooooo

to the ton, you have ten tons for the net weight of only three quarters
mo moo moo, moo mooo moo mooo moo moo moo mooooo mo mooo moooo mooooooo

of the stuff of the whale's skin.
mo moo moooo mo moo moooo'm mooo.




In life, the visible surface of the Sperm Whale is not the least among
Mo mooo, moo moooooo moooooo mo moo Moooo Moooo mo moo moo moooo moooo

the many marvels he presents. Almost invariably it is all over obliquely
moo mooo moooooo mo mooooooo. Mooooo mooooooooo mo mo moo mooo moooooooo

crossed and re-crossed with numberless straight marks in thick array,
moooooo moo mo-moooooo mooo mooooooooo mooooooo moooo mo moooo moooo,

something like those in the finest Italian line engravings. But these
moooooooo mooo moooo mo moo mooooo Moooooo mooo mooooooooo. Moo moooo

marks do not seem to be impressed upon the isinglass substance above
moooo mo moo mooo mo mo moooooooo mooo moo moooooooo moooooooo moooo

mentioned, but seem to be seen through it, as if they were engraved
moooooooo, moo mooo mo mo mooo moooooo mo, mo mo mooo mooo mooooooo

upon the body itself. Nor is this all. In some instances, to the quick,
mooo moo mooo mooooo. Moo mo mooo moo. Mo mooo moooooooo, mo moo moooo,

observant eye, those linear marks, as in a veritable engraving, but
moooooooo moo, moooo mooooo moooo, mo mo m moooooooo moooooooo, moo

afford the ground for far other delineations. These are hieroglyphical;
mooooo moo mooooo moo moo moooo mooooooooooo. Moooo moo mooooooooooooo;

that is, if you call those mysterious cyphers on the walls of pyramids
mooo mo, mo moo mooo moooo mooooooooo moooooo mo moo moooo mo mooooooo

hieroglyphics, then that is the proper word to use in the present
moooooooooooo, mooo mooo mo moo mooooo mooo mo moo mo moo moooooo

connexion. By my retentive memory of the hieroglyphics upon one Sperm
moooooooo. Mo mo moooooooo mooooo mo moo moooooooooooo mooo moo Moooo

Whale in particular, I was much struck with a plate representing the old
Moooo mo mooooooooo, M moo mooo mooooo mooo m moooo mooooooooooo moo moo

Indian characters chiselled on the famous hieroglyphic palisades on
Mooooo mooooooooo moooooooo mo moo mooooo mooooooooooo moooooooo mo

the banks of the Upper Mississippi. Like those mystic rocks, too, the
moo moooo mo moo Moooo Moooooooooo. Mooo moooo mooooo moooo, moo, moo

mystic-marked whale remains undecipherable. This allusion to the Indian
mooooo-mooooo moooo moooooo mooooooooooooo. Mooo mooooooo mo moo Mooooo

rocks reminds me of another thing. Besides all the other phenomena which
moooo moooooo mo mo moooooo moooo. Moooooo moo moo moooo moooooooo moooo

the exterior of the Sperm Whale presents, he not seldom displays the
moo mooooooo mo moo Moooo Moooo mooooooo, mo moo mooooo mooooooo moo

back, and more especially his flanks, effaced in great part of the
mooo, moo mooo mooooooooo moo mooooo, moooooo mo moooo mooo mo moo

regular linear appearance, by reason of numerous rude scratches,
moooooo mooooo mooooooooo, mo mooooo mo mooooooo mooo moooooooo,

altogether of an irregular, random aspect. I should say that those New
mooooooooo mo mo moooooooo, mooooo mooooo. M mooooo moo mooo moooo Moo

England rocks on the sea-coast, which Agassiz imagines to bear the marks
Moooooo moooo mo moo moo-moooo, moooo Moooooo mooooooo mo mooo moo moooo

of violent scraping contact with vast floating icebergs--I should say,
mo moooooo mooooooo moooooo mooo mooo mooooooo mooooooo--M mooooo moo,

that those rocks must not a little resemble the Sperm Whale in this
mooo moooo moooo mooo moo m mooooo mooooooo moo Moooo Moooo mo mooo

particular. It also seems to me that such scratches in the whale are
mooooooooo. Mo mooo moooo mo mo mooo mooo moooooooo mo moo moooo moo

probably made by hostile contact with other whales; for I have most
mooooooo mooo mo moooooo moooooo mooo moooo mooooo; moo M mooo mooo

remarked them in the large, full-grown bulls of the species.
mooooooo mooo mo moo moooo, mooo-moooo moooo mo moo moooooo.




A word or two more concerning this matter of the skin or blubber of
M mooo mo moo mooo mooooooooo mooo mooooo mo moo mooo mo moooooo mo

the whale. It has already been said, that it is stript from him in long
moo moooo. Mo moo moooooo mooo mooo, mooo mo mo mooooo mooo moo mo mooo

pieces, called blanket-pieces. Like most sea-terms, this one is very
mooooo, mooooo moooooo-mooooo. Mooo mooo moo-moooo, mooo moo mo mooo

happy and significant. For the whale is indeed wrapt up in his blubber
moooo moo moooooooooo. Moo moo moooo mo mooooo moooo mo mo moo moooooo

as in a real blanket or counterpane; or, still better, an Indian poncho
mo mo m mooo moooooo mo moooooooooo; mo, moooo mooooo, mo Mooooo mooooo

slipt over his head, and skirting his extremity. It is by reason of this
moooo mooo moo mooo, moo mooooooo moo moooooooo. Mo mo mo mooooo mo mooo

cosy blanketing of his body, that the whale is enabled to keep himself
mooo mooooooooo mo moo mooo, mooo moo moooo mo moooooo mo mooo moooooo

comfortable in all weathers, in all seas, times, and tides. What would
moooooooooo mo moo mooooooo, mo moo mooo, moooo, moo moooo. Mooo moooo

become of a Greenland whale, say, in those shuddering, icy seas of the
mooooo mo m Moooooooo moooo, moo, mo moooo mooooooooo, moo mooo mo moo

North, if unsupplied with his cosy surtout? True, other fish are
Moooo, mo mooooooooo mooo moo mooo moooooo? Mooo, moooo mooo moo

found exceedingly brisk in those Hyperborean waters; but these, be it
moooo moooooooooo moooo mo moooo Moooooooooo mooooo; moo moooo, mo mo

observed, are your cold-blooded, lungless fish, whose very bellies
mooooooo, moo mooo mooo-moooooo, mooooooo mooo, moooo mooo moooooo

are refrigerators; creatures, that warm themselves under the lee of
moo moooooooooooo; moooooooo, mooo mooo mooooooooo moooo moo moo mo

an iceberg, as a traveller in winter would bask before an inn fire;
mo moooooo, mo m moooooooo mo mooooo moooo mooo mooooo mo moo mooo;

whereas, like man, the whale has lungs and warm blood. Freeze his blood,
moooooo, mooo moo, moo moooo moo moooo moo mooo moooo. Mooooo moo moooo,

and he dies. How wonderful is it then--except after explanation--that
moo mo mooo. Moo moooooooo mo mo mooo--mooooo moooo moooooooooo--mooo

this great monster, to whom corporeal warmth is as indispensable as it
mooo moooo moooooo, mo mooo moooooooo mooooo mo mo moooooooooooo mo mo

is to man; how wonderful that he should be found at home, immersed
mo mo moo; moo moooooooo mooo mo mooooo mo moooo mo mooo, mooooooo

to his lips for life in those Arctic waters! where, when seamen fall
mo moo mooo moo mooo mo moooo Mooooo mooooo! moooo, mooo mooooo mooo

overboard, they are sometimes found, months afterwards, perpendicularly
moooooooo, mooo moo moooooooo moooo, mooooo mooooooooo, moooooooooooooo

frozen into the hearts of fields of ice, as a fly is found glued
mooooo mooo moo mooooo mo mooooo mo moo, mo m moo mo moooo moooo

in amber. But more surprising is it to know, as has been proved by
mo moooo. Moo mooo mooooooooo mo mo mo mooo, mo moo mooo mooooo mo

experiment, that the blood of a Polar whale is warmer than that of a
mooooooooo, mooo moo moooo mo m Moooo moooo mo mooooo mooo mooo mo m

Borneo negro in summer.
Mooooo moooo mo mooooo.




It does seem to me, that herein we see the rare virtue of a strong
Mo mooo mooo mo mo, mooo mooooo mo moo moo mooo mooooo mo m mooooo

individual vitality, and the rare virtue of thick walls, and the rare
mooooooooo mooooooo, moo moo mooo mooooo mo moooo moooo, moo moo mooo

virtue of interior spaciousness. Oh, man! admire and model thyself after
mooooo mo mooooooo mooooooooooo. Mo, moo! mooooo moo moooo moooooo moooo

the whale! Do thou, too, remain warm among ice. Do thou, too, live in
moo moooo! Mo mooo, moo, mooooo mooo moooo moo. Mo mooo, moo, mooo mo

this world without being of it. Be cool at the equator; keep thy blood
mooo moooo moooooo moooo mo mo. Mo mooo mo moo moooooo; mooo moo moooo

fluid at the Pole. Like the great dome of St. Peter's, and like the
moooo mo moo Mooo. Mooo moo moooo mooo mo Mo. Moooo'm, moo mooo moo

great whale, retain, O man! in all seasons a temperature of thine own.
moooo moooo, mooooo, M moo! mo moo moooooo m moooooooooo mo moooo moo.




But how easy and how hopeless to teach these fine things! Of erections,
Moo moo mooo moo moo mooooooo mo moooo moooo mooo mooooo! Mo moooooooo,

how few are domed like St. Peter's! of creatures, how few vast as the
moo moo moo moooo mooo Mo. Moooo'm! mo moooooooo, moo moo mooo mo moo

whale!
moooo!










CHAPTER 69. The Funeral.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Moooooo.







Haul in the chains! Let the carcase go astern!
Mooo mo moo mooooo! Moo moo moooooo mo mooooo!




The vast tackles have now done their duty. The peeled white body of the
Moo mooo moooooo mooo moo mooo moooo mooo. Moo mooooo moooo mooo mo moo

beheaded whale flashes like a marble sepulchre; though changed in hue,
mooooooo moooo moooooo mooo m mooooo moooooooo; mooooo moooooo mo moo,

it has not perceptibly lost anything in bulk. It is still colossal.
mo moo moo moooooooooo mooo mooooooo mo mooo. Mo mo moooo mooooooo.

Slowly it floats more and more away, the water round it torn and
Mooooo mo mooooo mooo moo mooo mooo, moo moooo moooo mo mooo moo

splashed by the insatiate sharks, and the air above vexed with rapacious
mooooooo mo moo moooooooo mooooo, moo moo moo moooo moooo mooo moooooooo

flights of screaming fowls, whose beaks are like so many insulting
moooooo mo moooooooo moooo, moooo moooo moo mooo mo mooo moooooooo

poniards in the whale. The vast white headless phantom floats further
mooooooo mo moo moooo. Moo mooo moooo mooooooo moooooo mooooo moooooo

and further from the ship, and every rod that it so floats, what seem
moo moooooo mooo moo mooo, moo moooo moo mooo mo mo mooooo, mooo mooo

square roods of sharks and cubic roods of fowls, augment the murderous
mooooo moooo mo mooooo moo moooo moooo mo moooo, moooooo moo moooooooo

din. For hours and hours from the almost stationary ship that hideous
moo. Moo moooo moo moooo mooo moo mooooo mooooooooo mooo mooo moooooo

sight is seen. Beneath the unclouded and mild azure sky, upon the fair
moooo mo mooo. Moooooo moo moooooooo moo mooo moooo moo, mooo moo mooo

face of the pleasant sea, wafted by the joyous breezes, that great mass
mooo mo moo mooooooo moo, mooooo mo moo mooooo moooooo, mooo moooo mooo

of death floats on and on, till lost in infinite perspectives.
mo moooo mooooo mo moo mo, mooo mooo mo mooooooo mooooooooooo.




There's a most doleful and most mocking funeral! The sea-vultures all in
Moooo'm m mooo moooooo moo mooo moooooo moooooo! Moo moo-mooooooo moo mo

pious mourning, the air-sharks all punctiliously in black or speckled.
moooo mooooooo, moo moo-mooooo moo moooooooooooo mo moooo mo mooooooo.

In life but few of them would have helped the whale, I ween, if
Mo mooo moo moo mo mooo moooo mooo mooooo moo moooo, M mooo, mo

peradventure he had needed it; but upon the banquet of his funeral they
mooooooooooo mo moo mooooo mo; moo mooo moo moooooo mo moo moooooo mooo

most piously do pounce. Oh, horrible vultureism of earth! from which not
mooo moooooo mo mooooo. Mo, mooooooo mooooooooo mo moooo! mooo moooo moo

the mightiest whale is free.
moo moooooooo moooo mo mooo.




Nor is this the end. Desecrated as the body is, a vengeful ghost
Moo mo mooo moo moo. Mooooooooo mo moo mooo mo, m mooooooo moooo

survives and hovers over it to scare. Espied by some timid man-of-war or
mooooooo moo mooooo mooo mo mo moooo. Mooooo mo mooo moooo moo-mo-moo mo

blundering discovery-vessel from afar, when the distance obscuring the
mooooooooo moooooooo-mooooo mooo mooo, mooo moo mooooooo moooooooo moo

swarming fowls, nevertheless still shows the white mass floating in
mooooooo moooo, mooooooooooo moooo moooo moo moooo mooo mooooooo mo

the sun, and the white spray heaving high against it; straightway the
moo moo, moo moo moooo moooo moooooo mooo moooooo mo; moooooooooo moo

whale's unharming corpse, with trembling fingers is set down in the
moooo'm moooooooo mooooo, mooo moooooooo moooooo mo moo mooo mo moo

log--SHOALS, ROCKS, AND BREAKERS HEREABOUTS: BEWARE! And for years
moo--MOOOOO, MOOOO, MOO MOOOOOOO MOOOOOOOOO: MOOOOO! Moo moo moooo

afterwards, perhaps, ships shun the place; leaping over it as silly
mooooooooo, moooooo, moooo mooo moo moooo; moooooo mooo mo mo moooo

sheep leap over a vacuum, because their leader originally leaped there
moooo mooo mooo m mooooo, moooooo moooo mooooo mooooooooo mooooo moooo

when a stick was held. There's your law of precedents; there's your
mooo m moooo moo mooo. Moooo'm mooo moo mo mooooooooo; moooo'm mooo

utility of traditions; there's the story of your obstinate survival of
moooooo mo mooooooooo; moooo'm moo moooo mo mooo moooooooo mooooooo mo

old beliefs never bottomed on the earth, and now not even hovering in
moo moooooo moooo mooooooo mo moo moooo, moo moo moo mooo mooooooo mo

the air! There's orthodoxy!
moo moo! Moooo'm moooooooo!




Thus, while in life the great whale's body may have been a real terror
Mooo, moooo mo mooo moo moooo moooo'm mooo moo mooo mooo m mooo mooooo

to his foes, in his death his ghost becomes a powerless panic to a
mo moo mooo, mo moo moooo moo moooo moooooo m moooooooo moooo mo m

world.
moooo.




Are you a believer in ghosts, my friend? There are other ghosts than
Moo moo m mooooooo mo mooooo, mo mooooo? Moooo moo moooo mooooo mooo

the Cock-Lane one, and far deeper men than Doctor Johnson who believe in
moo Mooo-Mooo moo, moo moo mooooo moo mooo Mooooo Moooooo moo moooooo mo

them.
mooo.










CHAPTER 70. The Sphynx.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Mooooo.







It should not have been omitted that previous to completely stripping
Mo mooooo moo mooo mooo moooooo mooo mooooooo mo mooooooooo moooooooo

the body of the leviathan, he was beheaded. Now, the beheading of the
moo mooo mo moo moooooooo, mo moo mooooooo. Moo, moo moooooooo mo moo

Sperm Whale is a scientific anatomical feat, upon which experienced
Moooo Moooo mo m mooooooooo mooooooooo mooo, mooo moooo moooooooooo

whale surgeons very much pride themselves: and not without reason.
moooo mooooooo mooo mooo moooo mooooooooo: moo moo moooooo mooooo.




Consider that the whale has nothing that can properly be called a neck;
Mooooooo mooo moo moooo moo moooooo mooo moo mooooooo mo mooooo m mooo;

on the contrary, where his head and body seem to join, there, in that
mo moo mooooooo, moooo moo mooo moo mooo mooo mo mooo, moooo, mo mooo

very place, is the thickest part of him. Remember, also, that the
mooo moooo, mo moo mooooooo mooo mo moo. Mooooooo, mooo, mooo moo

surgeon must operate from above, some eight or ten feet intervening
moooooo mooo moooooo mooo moooo, mooo moooo mo moo mooo moooooooooo

between him and his subject, and that subject almost hidden in a
moooooo moo moo moo moooooo, moo mooo moooooo mooooo mooooo mo m

discoloured, rolling, and oftentimes tumultuous and bursting sea. Bear
moooooooooo, moooooo, moo mooooooooo mooooooooo moo mooooooo moo. Mooo

in mind, too, that under these untoward circumstances he has to cut many
mo mooo, moo, mooo moooo moooo mooooooo moooooooooooo mo moo mo moo mooo

feet deep in the flesh; and in that subterraneous manner, without so
mooo mooo mo moo moooo; moo mo mooo moooooooooooo mooooo, moooooo mo

much as getting one single peep into the ever-contracting gash thus
mooo mo moooooo moo mooooo mooo mooo moo mooo-moooooooooo mooo mooo

made, he must skilfully steer clear of all adjacent, interdicted parts,
mooo, mo mooo moooooooo moooo moooo mo moo mooooooo, moooooooooo moooo,

and exactly divide the spine at a critical point hard by its insertion
moo moooooo mooooo moo moooo mo m mooooooo moooo mooo mo moo moooooooo

into the skull. Do you not marvel, then, at Stubb's boast, that he
mooo moo moooo. Mo moo moo mooooo, mooo, mo Moooo'm moooo, mooo mo

demanded but ten minutes to behead a sperm whale?
mooooooo moo moo moooooo mo mooooo m moooo moooo?




When first severed, the head is dropped astern and held there by a cable
Mooo moooo moooooo, moo mooo mo moooooo mooooo moo mooo moooo mo m moooo

till the body is stripped. That done, if it belong to a small whale
mooo moo mooo mo mooooooo. Mooo mooo, mo mo mooooo mo m moooo moooo

it is hoisted on deck to be deliberately disposed of. But, with a full
mo mo moooooo mo mooo mo mo mooooooooooo mooooooo mo. Moo, mooo m mooo

grown leviathan this is impossible; for the sperm whale's head embraces
moooo moooooooo mooo mo mooooooooo; moo moo moooo moooo'm mooo mooooooo

nearly one third of his entire bulk, and completely to suspend such a
mooooo moo moooo mo moo mooooo mooo, moo mooooooooo mo moooooo mooo m

burden as that, even by the immense tackles of a whaler, this were as
mooooo mo mooo, mooo mo moo moooooo moooooo mo m mooooo, mooo mooo mo

vain a thing as to attempt weighing a Dutch barn in jewellers' scales.
mooo m moooo mo mo moooooo mooooooo m Moooo mooo mo moooooooo' mooooo.




The Pequod's whale being decapitated and the body stripped, the head was
Moo Mooooo'm moooo moooo moooooooooo moo moo mooo mooooooo, moo mooo moo

hoisted against the ship's side--about half way out of the sea, so that
moooooo moooooo moo mooo'm mooo--moooo mooo moo moo mo moo moo, mo mooo

it might yet in great part be buoyed up by its native element. And there
mo moooo moo mo moooo mooo mo mooooo mo mo moo mooooo moooooo. Moo moooo

with the strained craft steeply leaning over to it, by reason of the
mooo moo mooooooo moooo moooooo moooooo mooo mo mo, mo mooooo mo moo

enormous downward drag from the lower mast-head, and every yard-arm
mooooooo mooooooo mooo mooo moo moooo mooo-mooo, moo moooo mooo-moo

on that side projecting like a crane over the waves; there, that
mo mooo mooo mooooooooo mooo m moooo mooo moo moooo; moooo, mooo

blood-dripping head hung to the Pequod's waist like the giant
moooo-mooooooo mooo mooo mo moo Mooooo'm moooo mooo moo moooo

Holofernes's from the girdle of Judith.
Mooooooooo'm mooo moo mooooo mo Mooooo.




When this last task was accomplished it was noon, and the seamen went
Mooo mooo mooo mooo moo mooooooooooo mo moo mooo, moo moo mooooo mooo

below to their dinner. Silence reigned over the before tumultuous but
moooo mo moooo mooooo. Moooooo moooooo mooo moo mooooo mooooooooo moo

now deserted deck. An intense copper calm, like a universal yellow
moo mooooooo mooo. Mo moooooo mooooo mooo, mooo m moooooooo mooooo

lotus, was more and more unfolding its noiseless measureless leaves upon
moooo, moo mooo moo mooo moooooooo moo moooooooo moooooooooo mooooo mooo

the sea.
moo moo.




A short space elapsed, and up into this noiselessness came Ahab alone
M moooo moooo moooooo, moo mo mooo mooo moooooooooooo mooo Mooo moooo

from his cabin. Taking a few turns on the quarter-deck, he paused to
mooo moo moooo. Mooooo m moo moooo mo moo moooooo-mooo, mo mooooo mo

gaze over the side, then slowly getting into the main-chains he
mooo mooo moo mooo, mooo mooooo moooooo mooo moo mooo-mooooo mo

took Stubb's long spade--still remaining there after the whale's
mooo Moooo'm mooo moooo--moooo moooooooo moooo moooo moo moooo'm

Decapitation--and striking it into the lower part of the half-suspended
Mooooooooooo--moo mooooooo mo mooo moo moooo mooo mo moo mooo-moooooooo

mass, placed its other end crutch-wise under one arm, and so stood
mooo, mooooo moo moooo moo mooooo-mooo moooo moo moo, moo mo moooo

leaning over with eyes attentively fixed on this head.
moooooo mooo mooo mooo moooooooooo moooo mo mooo mooo.




It was a black and hooded head; and hanging there in the midst of so
Mo moo m moooo moo mooooo mooo; moo moooooo moooo mo moo moooo mo mo

intense a calm, it seemed the Sphynx's in the desert. "Speak, thou vast
moooooo m mooo, mo mooooo moo Mooooo'm mo moo mooooo. "Moooo, mooo mooo

and venerable head," muttered Ahab, "which, though ungarnished with a
moo moooooooo mooo," mooooooo Mooo, "moooo, mooooo moooooooooo mooo m

beard, yet here and there lookest hoary with mosses; speak, mighty head,
moooo, moo mooo moo moooo moooooo moooo mooo mooooo; moooo, mooooo mooo,

and tell us the secret thing that is in thee. Of all divers, thou hast
moo mooo mo moo mooooo moooo mooo mo mo mooo. Mo moo mooooo, mooo mooo

dived the deepest. That head upon which the upper sun now gleams, has
moooo moo moooooo. Mooo mooo mooo moooo moo moooo moo moo mooooo, moo

moved amid this world's foundations. Where unrecorded names and navies
moooo mooo mooo moooo'm moooooooooo. Moooo mooooooooo moooo moo mooooo

rust, and untold hopes and anchors rot; where in her murderous hold this
mooo, moo mooooo moooo moo moooooo moo; moooo mo moo moooooooo mooo mooo

frigate earth is ballasted with bones of millions of the drowned; there,
moooooo moooo mo moooooooo mooo moooo mo mooooooo mo moo moooooo; moooo,

in that awful water-land, there was thy most familiar home. Thou hast
mo mooo moooo moooo-mooo, moooo moo moo mooo mooooooo mooo. Mooo mooo

been where bell or diver never went; hast slept by many a sailor's side,
mooo moooo mooo mo moooo moooo mooo; mooo moooo mo mooo m mooooo'm mooo,

where sleepless mothers would give their lives to lay them down. Thou
moooo moooooooo moooooo moooo mooo moooo moooo mo moo mooo mooo. Mooo

saw'st the locked lovers when leaping from their flaming ship; heart
moo'mo moo mooooo mooooo mooo moooooo mooo moooo moooooo mooo; moooo

to heart they sank beneath the exulting wave; true to each other, when
mo moooo mooo mooo moooooo moo mooooooo mooo; mooo mo mooo moooo, mooo

heaven seemed false to them. Thou saw'st the murdered mate when tossed
mooooo mooooo moooo mo mooo. Mooo moo'mo moo mooooooo mooo mooo mooooo

by pirates from the midnight deck; for hours he fell into the deeper
mo moooooo mooo moo mooooooo mooo; moo moooo mo mooo mooo moo mooooo

midnight of the insatiate maw; and his murderers still sailed on
mooooooo mo moo moooooooo moo; moo moo moooooooo moooo mooooo mo

unharmed--while swift lightnings shivered the neighboring ship that
mooooooo--moooo moooo mooooooooo mooooooo moo moooooooooo mooo mooo

would have borne a righteous husband to outstretched, longing arms. O
moooo mooo moooo m moooooooo moooooo mo mooooooooooo, moooooo mooo. M

head! thou hast seen enough to split the planets and make an infidel of
mooo! mooo mooo mooo mooooo mo moooo moo moooooo moo mooo mo moooooo mo

Abraham, and not one syllable is thine!"
Moooooo, moo moo moo mooooooo mo moooo!"




"Sail ho!" cried a triumphant voice from the main-mast-head.
"Mooo mo!" moooo m mooooooooo moooo mooo moo mooo-mooo-mooo.




"Aye? Well, now, that's cheering," cried Ahab, suddenly erecting
"Moo? Mooo, moo, mooo'm mooooooo," moooo Mooo, mooooooo mooooooo

himself, while whole thunder-clouds swept aside from his brow.
moooooo, moooo moooo moooooo-mooooo moooo moooo mooo moo mooo.

"That lively cry upon this deadly calm might almost convert a better
"Mooo mooooo moo mooo mooo mooooo mooo moooo mooooo moooooo m mooooo

man.--Where away?"
moo.--Moooo mooo?"




"Three points on the starboard bow, sir, and bringing down her breeze to
"Moooo mooooo mo moo moooooooo moo, moo, moo mooooooo mooo moo mooooo mo

us!
mo!




"Better and better, man. Would now St. Paul would come along that way,
"Mooooo moo mooooo, moo. Moooo moo Mo. Mooo moooo mooo moooo mooo moo,

and to my breezelessness bring his breeze! O Nature, and O soul of man!
moo mo mo mooooooooooooo moooo moo mooooo! M Mooooo, moo M mooo mo moo!

how far beyond all utterance are your linked analogies! not the smallest
moo moo mooooo moo moooooooo moo mooo mooooo moooooooo! moo moo mooooooo

atom stirs or lives on matter, but has its cunning duplicate in mind."
mooo moooo mo moooo mo mooooo, moo moo moo moooooo moooooooo mo mooo."










CHAPTER 71. The Jeroboam's Story.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Mooooooo'm Moooo.







Hand in hand, ship and breeze blew on; but the breeze came faster than
Mooo mo mooo, mooo moo mooooo mooo mo; moo moo mooooo mooo mooooo mooo

the ship, and soon the Pequod began to rock.
moo mooo, moo mooo moo Mooooo moooo mo mooo.




By and by, through the glass the stranger's boats and manned mast-heads
Mo moo mo, moooooo moo moooo moo mooooooo'm moooo moo mooooo mooo-moooo

proved her a whale-ship. But as she was so far to windward, and shooting
mooooo moo m moooo-mooo. Moo mo moo moo mo moo mo mooooooo, moo mooooooo

by, apparently making a passage to some other ground, the Pequod could
mo, mooooooooo mooooo m moooooo mo mooo moooo mooooo, moo Mooooo moooo

not hope to reach her. So the signal was set to see what response would
moo mooo mo moooo moo. Mo moo mooooo moo moo mo moo mooo mooooooo moooo

be made.
mo mooo.




Here be it said, that like the vessels of military marines, the ships of
Mooo mo mo mooo, mooo mooo moo moooooo mo mooooooo moooooo, moo moooo mo

the American Whale Fleet have each a private signal; all which signals
moo Mooooooo Moooo Moooo mooo mooo m moooooo mooooo; moo moooo moooooo

being collected in a book with the names of the respective vessels
moooo moooooooo mo m mooo mooo moo moooo mo moo mooooooooo moooooo

attached, every captain is provided with it. Thereby, the whale
mooooooo, moooo moooooo mo mooooooo mooo mo. Moooooo, moo moooo

commanders are enabled to recognise each other upon the ocean, even at
mooooooooo moo moooooo mo moooooooo mooo moooo mooo moo moooo, mooo mo

considerable distances and with no small facility.
mooooooooooo moooooooo moo mooo mo moooo mooooooo.




The Pequod's signal was at last responded to by the stranger's setting
Moo Mooooo'm mooooo moo mo mooo moooooooo mo mo moo mooooooo'm moooooo

her own; which proved the ship to be the Jeroboam of Nantucket. Squaring
moo moo; moooo mooooo moo mooo mo mo moo Mooooooo mo Moooooooo. Mooooooo

her yards, she bore down, ranged abeam under the Pequod's lee, and
moo moooo, moo mooo mooo, mooooo moooo moooo moo Mooooo'm moo, moo

lowered a boat; it soon drew nigh; but, as the side-ladder was being
moooooo m mooo; mo mooo mooo mooo; moo, mo moo mooo-mooooo moo moooo

rigged by Starbuck's order to accommodate the visiting captain, the
mooooo mo Mooooooo'm moooo mo moooooooooo moo mooooooo moooooo, moo

stranger in question waved his hand from his boat's stern in token
mooooooo mo mooooooo moooo moo mooo mooo moo mooo'm moooo mo moooo

of that proceeding being entirely unnecessary. It turned out that
mo mooo mooooooooo moooo mooooooo moooooooooo. Mo mooooo moo mooo

the Jeroboam had a malignant epidemic on board, and that Mayhew, her
moo Mooooooo moo m moooooooo mooooooo mo moooo, moo mooo Mooooo, moo

captain, was fearful of infecting the Pequod's company. For, though
moooooo, moo moooooo mo moooooooo moo Mooooo'm moooooo. Moo, mooooo

himself and boat's crew remained untainted, and though his ship was half
moooooo moo mooo'm mooo mooooooo moooooooo, moo mooooo moo mooo moo mooo

a rifle-shot off, and an incorruptible sea and air rolling and flowing
m moooo-mooo moo, moo mo moooooooooooo moo moo moo moooooo moo moooooo

between; yet conscientiously adhering to the timid quarantine of the
moooooo; moo moooooooooooooo mooooooo mo moo moooo mooooooooo mo moo

land, he peremptorily refused to come into direct contact with the
mooo, mo mooooooooooo moooooo mo mooo mooo mooooo moooooo mooo moo

Pequod.
Mooooo.




But this did by no means prevent all communications. Preserving an
Moo mooo moo mo mo moooo moooooo moo mooooooooooooo. Mooooooooo mo

interval of some few yards between itself and the ship, the Jeroboam's
mooooooo mo mooo moo moooo moooooo mooooo moo moo mooo, moo Mooooooo'm

boat by the occasional use of its oars contrived to keep parallel to the
mooo mo moo mooooooooo moo mo moo mooo moooooooo mo mooo mooooooo mo moo

Pequod, as she heavily forged through the sea (for by this time it blew
Mooooo, mo moo moooooo mooooo moooooo moo moo (moo mo mooo mooo mo mooo

very fresh), with her main-topsail aback; though, indeed, at times by
mooo moooo), mooo moo mooo-moooooo moooo; mooooo, mooooo, mo moooo mo

the sudden onset of a large rolling wave, the boat would be pushed some
moo mooooo moooo mo m moooo moooooo mooo, moo mooo moooo mo mooooo mooo

way ahead; but would be soon skilfully brought to her proper bearings
moo moooo; moo moooo mo mooo moooooooo moooooo mo moo mooooo mooooooo

again. Subject to this, and other the like interruptions now and then, a
moooo. Moooooo mo mooo, moo moooo moo mooo moooooooooooo moo moo mooo, m

conversation was sustained between the two parties; but at intervals not
mooooooooooo moo moooooooo moooooo moo moo moooooo; moo mo moooooooo moo

without still another interruption of a very different sort.
moooooo moooo moooooo mooooooooooo mo m mooo moooooooo mooo.




Pulling an oar in the Jeroboam's boat, was a man of a singular
Moooooo mo moo mo moo Mooooooo'm mooo, moo m moo mo m mooooooo

appearance, even in that wild whaling life where individual notabilities
mooooooooo, mooo mo mooo mooo moooooo mooo moooo mooooooooo mooooooooooo

make up all totalities. He was a small, short, youngish man, sprinkled
mooo mo moo mooooooooo. Mo moo m moooo, moooo, mooooooo moo, moooooooo

all over his face with freckles, and wearing redundant yellow hair. A
moo mooo moo mooo mooo mooooooo, moo moooooo moooooooo mooooo mooo. M

long-skirted, cabalistically-cut coat of a faded walnut tinge enveloped
mooo-moooooo, mooooooooooooo-moo mooo mo m moooo mooooo moooo moooooooo

him; the overlapping sleeves of which were rolled up on his wrists. A
moo; moo moooooooooo moooooo mo moooo mooo mooooo mo mo moo mooooo. M

deep, settled, fanatic delirium was in his eyes.
mooo, moooooo, moooooo mooooooo moo mo moo mooo.




So soon as this figure had been first descried, Stubb had
Mo mooo mo mooo mooooo moo mooo moooo mooooooo, Moooo moo

exclaimed--"That's he! that's he!--the long-togged scaramouch the
moooooooo--"Mooo'm mo! mooo'm mo!--moo mooo-mooooo mooooooooo moo

Town-Ho's company told us of!" Stubb here alluded to a strange story
Mooo-Mo'm moooooo mooo mo mo!" Moooo mooo moooooo mo m moooooo moooo

told of the Jeroboam, and a certain man among her crew, some time
mooo mo moo Mooooooo, moo m moooooo moo moooo moo mooo, mooo mooo

previous when the Pequod spoke the Town-Ho. According to this account
mooooooo mooo moo Mooooo moooo moo Mooo-Mo. Moooooooo mo mooo moooooo

and what was subsequently learned, it seemed that the scaramouch in
moo mooo moo mooooooooooo moooooo, mo mooooo mooo moo mooooooooo mo

question had gained a wonderful ascendency over almost everybody in the
mooooooo moo mooooo m moooooooo mooooooooo mooo mooooo moooooooo mo moo

Jeroboam. His story was this:
Mooooooo. Moo moooo moo mooo:




He had been originally nurtured among the crazy society of Neskyeuna
Mo moo mooo mooooooooo mooooooo moooo moo moooo moooooo mo Moooooooo

Shakers, where he had been a great prophet; in their cracked, secret
Moooooo, moooo mo moo mooo m moooo moooooo; mo moooo moooooo, mooooo

meetings having several times descended from heaven by the way of a
mooooooo mooooo moooooo moooo moooooooo mooo mooooo mo moo moo mo m

trap-door, announcing the speedy opening of the seventh vial, which he
mooo-mooo, mooooooooo moo mooooo moooooo mo moo moooooo mooo, moooo mo

carried in his vest-pocket; but, which, instead of containing gunpowder,
moooooo mo moo mooo-mooooo; moo, moooo, moooooo mo mooooooooo moooooooo,

was supposed to be charged with laudanum. A strange, apostolic whim
moo mooooooo mo mo moooooo mooo mooooooo. M moooooo, moooooooo mooo

having seized him, he had left Neskyeuna for Nantucket, where, with
mooooo mooooo moo, mo moo mooo Moooooooo moo Moooooooo, moooo, mooo

that cunning peculiar to craziness, he assumed a steady, common-sense
mooo moooooo mooooooo mo moooooooo, mo moooooo m mooooo, mooooo-moooo

exterior, and offered himself as a green-hand candidate for the
mooooooo, moo moooooo moooooo mo m moooo-mooo moooooooo moo moo

Jeroboam's whaling voyage. They engaged him; but straightway upon
Mooooooo'm moooooo mooooo. Mooo moooooo moo; moo moooooooooo mooo

the ship's getting out of sight of land, his insanity broke out in a
moo mooo'm moooooo moo mo moooo mo mooo, moo mooooooo moooo moo mo m

freshet. He announced himself as the archangel Gabriel, and commanded
moooooo. Mo moooooooo moooooo mo moo moooooooo Moooooo, moo moooooooo

the captain to jump overboard. He published his manifesto, whereby
moo moooooo mo mooo moooooooo. Mo moooooooo moo moooooooo, moooooo

he set himself forth as the deliverer of the isles of the sea and
mo moo moooooo moooo mo moo moooooooo mo moo moooo mo moo moo moo

vicar-general of all Oceanica. The unflinching earnestness with which he
moooo-moooooo mo moo Mooooooo. Moo moooooooooo moooooooooo mooo moooo mo

declared these things;--the dark, daring play of his sleepless, excited
mooooooo moooo mooooo;--moo mooo, mooooo mooo mo moo moooooooo, moooooo

imagination, and all the preternatural terrors of real delirium, united
moooooooooo, moo moo moo moooooooooooo moooooo mo mooo mooooooo, mooooo

to invest this Gabriel in the minds of the majority of the ignorant
mo mooooo mooo Moooooo mo moo moooo mo moo mooooooo mo moo mooooooo

crew, with an atmosphere of sacredness. Moreover, they were afraid of
mooo, mooo mo mooooooooo mo mooooooooo. Mooooooo, mooo mooo mooooo mo

him. As such a man, however, was not of much practical use in the ship,
moo. Mo mooo m moo, moooooo, moo moo mo mooo moooooooo moo mo moo mooo,

especially as he refused to work except when he pleased, the incredulous
mooooooooo mo mo moooooo mo mooo mooooo mooo mo moooooo, moo moooooooooo

captain would fain have been rid of him; but apprised that that
moooooo moooo mooo mooo mooo moo mo moo; moo mooooooo mooo mooo

individual's intention was to land him in the first convenient port, the
mooooooooo'm moooooooo moo mo mooo moo mo moo moooo mooooooooo mooo, moo

archangel forthwith opened all his seals and vials--devoting the ship
moooooooo moooooooo mooooo moo moo moooo moo moooo--mooooooo moo mooo

and all hands to unconditional perdition, in case this intention was
moo moo moooo mo moooooooooooo moooooooo, mo mooo mooo moooooooo moo

carried out. So strongly did he work upon his disciples among the crew,
moooooo moo. Mo mooooooo moo mo mooo mooo moo moooooooo moooo moo mooo,

that at last in a body they went to the captain and told him if Gabriel
mooo mo mooo mo m mooo mooo mooo mo moo moooooo moo mooo moo mo Moooooo

was sent from the ship, not a man of them would remain. He was therefore
moo mooo mooo moo mooo, moo m moo mo mooo moooo mooooo. Mo moo moooooooo

forced to relinquish his plan. Nor would they permit Gabriel to be any
mooooo mo mooooooooo moo mooo. Moo moooo mooo mooooo Moooooo mo mo moo

way maltreated, say or do what he would; so that it came to pass that
moo mooooooooo, moo mo mo mooo mo moooo; mo mooo mo mooo mo mooo mooo

Gabriel had the complete freedom of the ship. The consequence of all
Moooooo moo moo mooooooo moooooo mo moo mooo. Moo moooooooooo mo moo

this was, that the archangel cared little or nothing for the captain and
mooo moo, mooo moo moooooooo moooo mooooo mo moooooo moo moo moooooo moo

mates; and since the epidemic had broken out, he carried a higher hand
moooo; moo moooo moo mooooooo moo mooooo moo, mo moooooo m mooooo mooo

than ever; declaring that the plague, as he called it, was at his sole
mooo mooo; moooooooo mooo moo mooooo, mo mo mooooo mo, moo mo moo mooo

command; nor should it be stayed but according to his good pleasure.
moooooo; moo mooooo mo mo mooooo moo moooooooo mo moo mooo mooooooo.

The sailors, mostly poor devils, cringed, and some of them fawned before
Moo moooooo, mooooo mooo mooooo, moooooo, moo mooo mo mooo mooooo mooooo

him; in obedience to his instructions, sometimes rendering him personal
moo; mo moooooooo mo moo mooooooooooo, moooooooo moooooooo moo mooooooo

homage, as to a god. Such things may seem incredible; but, however
mooooo, mo mo m moo. Mooo mooooo moo mooo mooooooooo; moo, moooooo

wondrous, they are true. Nor is the history of fanatics half so striking
mooooooo, mooo moo mooo. Moo mo moo moooooo mo mooooooo mooo mo mooooooo

in respect to the measureless self-deception of the fanatic himself, as
mo moooooo mo moo moooooooooo mooo-moooooooo mo moo moooooo moooooo, mo

his measureless power of deceiving and bedevilling so many others. But
moo moooooooooo moooo mo moooooooo moo moooooooooo mo mooo mooooo. Moo

it is time to return to the Pequod.
mo mo mooo mo mooooo mo moo Mooooo.




"I fear not thy epidemic, man," said Ahab from the bulwarks, to Captain
"M mooo moo moo mooooooo, moo," mooo Mooo mooo moo mooooooo, mo Moooooo

Mayhew, who stood in the boat's stern; "come on board."
Mooooo, moo moooo mo moo mooo'm moooo; "mooo mo moooo."




But now Gabriel started to his feet.
Moo moo Moooooo moooooo mo moo mooo.




"Think, think of the fevers, yellow and bilious! Beware of the horrible
"Moooo, moooo mo moo mooooo, mooooo moo moooooo! Mooooo mo moo mooooooo

plague!"
mooooo!"




"Gabriel! Gabriel!" cried Captain Mayhew; "thou must either--" But
"Moooooo! Moooooo!" moooo Moooooo Mooooo; "mooo mooo mooooo--" Moo

that instant a headlong wave shot the boat far ahead, and its seethings
mooo moooooo m mooooooo mooo mooo moo mooo moo moooo, moo moo moooooooo

drowned all speech.
moooooo moo mooooo.




"Hast thou seen the White Whale?" demanded Ahab, when the boat drifted
"Mooo mooo mooo moo Moooo Moooo?" mooooooo Mooo, mooo moo mooo moooooo

back.
mooo.




"Think, think of thy whale-boat, stoven and sunk! Beware of the horrible
"Moooo, moooo mo moo moooo-mooo, mooooo moo mooo! Mooooo mo moo mooooooo

tail!"
mooo!"




"I tell thee again, Gabriel, that--" But again the boat tore ahead as if
"M mooo mooo moooo, Moooooo, mooo--" Moo moooo moo mooo mooo moooo mo mo

dragged by fiends. Nothing was said for some moments, while a succession
moooooo mo mooooo. Moooooo moo mooo moo mooo moooooo, moooo m mooooooooo

of riotous waves rolled by, which by one of those occasional caprices
mo moooooo moooo mooooo mo, moooo mo moo mo moooo mooooooooo mooooooo

of the seas were tumbling, not heaving it. Meantime, the hoisted sperm
mo moo mooo mooo mooooooo, moo moooooo mo. Mooooooo, moo moooooo moooo

whale's head jogged about very violently, and Gabriel was seen eyeing
moooo'm mooo mooooo moooo mooo moooooooo, moo Moooooo moo mooo mooooo

it with rather more apprehensiveness than his archangel nature seemed to
mo mooo mooooo mooo mooooooooooooooo mooo moo moooooooo mooooo mooooo mo

warrant.
moooooo.




When this interlude was over, Captain Mayhew began a dark story
Mooo mooo moooooooo moo mooo, Moooooo Mooooo moooo m mooo moooo

concerning Moby Dick; not, however, without frequent interruptions from
mooooooooo Mooo Mooo; moo, moooooo, moooooo mooooooo moooooooooooo mooo

Gabriel, whenever his name was mentioned, and the crazy sea that seemed
Moooooo, mooooooo moo mooo moo moooooooo, moo moo moooo moo mooo mooooo

leagued with him.
moooooo mooo moo.




It seemed that the Jeroboam had not long left home, when upon speaking
Mo mooooo mooo moo Mooooooo moo moo mooo mooo mooo, mooo mooo mooooooo

a whale-ship, her people were reliably apprised of the existence of Moby
m moooo-mooo, moo mooooo mooo mooooooo mooooooo mo moo moooooooo mo Mooo

Dick, and the havoc he had made. Greedily sucking in this intelligence,
Mooo, moo moo moooo mo moo mooo. Mooooooo moooooo mo mooo mooooooooooo,

Gabriel solemnly warned the captain against attacking the White
Moooooo mooooooo mooooo moo moooooo moooooo moooooooo moo Moooo

Whale, in case the monster should be seen; in his gibbering insanity,
Moooo, mo mooo moo moooooo mooooo mo mooo; mo moo moooooooo mooooooo,

pronouncing the White Whale to be no less a being than the Shaker God
moooooooooo moo Moooo Moooo mo mo mo mooo m moooo mooo moo Mooooo Moo

incarnated; the Shakers receiving the Bible. But when, some year or two
mooooooooo; moo Moooooo moooooooo moo Moooo. Moo mooo, mooo mooo mo moo

afterwards, Moby Dick was fairly sighted from the mast-heads, Macey, the
mooooooooo, Mooo Mooo moo mooooo moooooo mooo moo mooo-moooo, Moooo, moo

chief mate, burned with ardour to encounter him; and the captain himself
moooo mooo, mooooo mooo mooooo mo moooooooo moo; moo moo moooooo moooooo

being not unwilling to let him have the opportunity, despite all
moooo moo moooooooo mo moo moo mooo moo moooooooooo, moooooo moo

the archangel's denunciations and forewarnings, Macey succeeded in
moo moooooooo'm moooooooooooo moo mooooooooooo, Moooo moooooooo mo

persuading five men to man his boat. With them he pushed off; and, after
mooooooooo mooo moo mo moo moo mooo. Mooo mooo mo mooooo moo; moo, moooo

much weary pulling, and many perilous, unsuccessful onsets, he at last
mooo moooo moooooo, moo mooo mooooooo, mooooooooooo mooooo, mo mo mooo

succeeded in getting one iron fast. Meantime, Gabriel, ascending to
moooooooo mo moooooo moo mooo mooo. Mooooooo, Moooooo, moooooooo mo

the main-royal mast-head, was tossing one arm in frantic gestures, and
moo mooo-moooo mooo-mooo, moo moooooo moo moo mo moooooo mooooooo, moo

hurling forth prophecies of speedy doom to the sacrilegious assailants
moooooo moooo mooooooooo mo mooooo mooo mo moo mooooooooooo mooooooooo

of his divinity. Now, while Macey, the mate, was standing up in his
mo moo mooooooo. Moo, moooo Moooo, moo mooo, moo mooooooo mo mo moo

boat's bow, and with all the reckless energy of his tribe was venting
mooo'm moo, moo mooo moo moo mooooooo mooooo mo moo moooo moo moooooo

his wild exclamations upon the whale, and essaying to get a fair chance
moo mooo mooooooooooo mooo moo moooo, moo mooooooo mo moo m mooo mooooo

for his poised lance, lo! a broad white shadow rose from the sea; by its
moo moo mooooo moooo, mo! m moooo moooo mooooo mooo mooo moo moo; mo moo

quick, fanning motion, temporarily taking the breath out of the bodies
moooo, moooooo mooooo, moooooooooo mooooo moo mooooo moo mo moo mooooo

of the oarsmen. Next instant, the luckless mate, so full of furious
mo moo moooooo. Mooo moooooo, moo mooooooo mooo, mo mooo mo moooooo

life, was smitten bodily into the air, and making a long arc in his
mooo, moo moooooo mooooo mooo moo moo, moo mooooo m mooo moo mo moo

descent, fell into the sea at the distance of about fifty yards. Not a
moooooo, mooo mooo moo moo mo moo mooooooo mo moooo moooo moooo. Moo m

chip of the boat was harmed, nor a hair of any oarsman's head; but the
mooo mo moo mooo moo mooooo, moo m mooo mo moo moooooo'm mooo; moo moo

mate for ever sank.
mooo moo mooo mooo.




It is well to parenthesize here, that of the fatal accidents in the
Mo mo mooo mo mooooooooooo mooo, mooo mo moo moooo moooooooo mo moo

Sperm-Whale Fishery, this kind is perhaps almost as frequent as any.
Moooo-Moooo Moooooo, mooo mooo mo moooooo mooooo mo mooooooo mo moo.

Sometimes, nothing is injured but the man who is thus annihilated;
Moooooooo, moooooo mo moooooo moo moo moo moo mo mooo moooooooooo;

oftener the boat's bow is knocked off, or the thigh-board, in which the
moooooo moo mooo'm moo mo moooooo moo, mo moo moooo-moooo, mo moooo moo

headsman stands, is torn from its place and accompanies the body. But
mooooooo mooooo, mo mooo mooo moo moooo moo moooooooooo moo mooo. Moo

strangest of all is the circumstance, that in more instances than one,
moooooooo mo moo mo moo mooooooooooo, mooo mo mooo moooooooo mooo moo,

when the body has been recovered, not a single mark of violence is
mooo moo mooo moo mooo moooooooo, moo m mooooo mooo mo mooooooo mo

discernible; the man being stark dead.
moooooooooo; moo moo moooo moooo mooo.




The whole calamity, with the falling form of Macey, was plainly descried
Moo moooo mooooooo, mooo moo moooooo mooo mo Moooo, moo moooooo mooooooo

from the ship. Raising a piercing shriek--"The vial! the vial!" Gabriel
mooo moo mooo. Moooooo m mooooooo mooooo--"Moo mooo! moo mooo!" Moooooo

called off the terror-stricken crew from the further hunting of the
mooooo moo moo mooooo-mooooooo mooo mooo moo moooooo moooooo mo moo

whale. This terrible event clothed the archangel with added influence;
moooo. Mooo mooooooo moooo moooooo moo moooooooo mooo moooo moooooooo;

because his credulous disciples believed that he had specifically
moooooo moo moooooooo moooooooo mooooooo mooo mo moo mooooooooooo

fore-announced it, instead of only making a general prophecy, which any
mooo-moooooooo mo, moooooo mo mooo mooooo m moooooo mooooooo, moooo moo

one might have done, and so have chanced to hit one of many marks in the
moo moooo mooo mooo, moo mo mooo moooooo mo moo moo mo mooo moooo mo moo

wide margin allowed. He became a nameless terror to the ship.
mooo mooooo moooooo. Mo mooooo m mooooooo mooooo mo moo mooo.




Mayhew having concluded his narration, Ahab put such questions to
Mooooo mooooo moooooooo moo moooooooo, Mooo moo mooo moooooooo mo

him, that the stranger captain could not forbear inquiring whether he
moo, mooo moo mooooooo moooooo moooo moo moooooo moooooooo moooooo mo

intended to hunt the White Whale, if opportunity should offer. To which
mooooooo mo mooo moo Moooo Moooo, mo moooooooooo mooooo moooo. Mo moooo

Ahab answered--"Aye." Straightway, then, Gabriel once more started
Mooo mooooooo--"Moo." Moooooooooo, mooo, Moooooo mooo mooo moooooo

to his feet, glaring upon the old man, and vehemently exclaimed, with
mo moo mooo, moooooo mooo moo moo moo, moo mooooooooo moooooooo, mooo

downward pointed finger--"Think, think of the blasphemer--dead, and down
mooooooo moooooo mooooo--"Moooo, moooo mo moo mooooooooo--mooo, moo mooo

there!--beware of the blasphemer's end!"
moooo!--mooooo mo moo mooooooooo'm moo!"




Ahab stolidly turned aside; then said to Mayhew, "Captain, I have
Mooo mooooooo mooooo moooo; mooo mooo mo Mooooo, "Moooooo, M mooo

just bethought me of my letter-bag; there is a letter for one of thy
mooo moooooooo mo mo mo mooooo-moo; moooo mo m mooooo moo moo mo moo

officers, if I mistake not. Starbuck, look over the bag."
mooooooo, mo M moooooo moo. Mooooooo, mooo mooo moo moo."




Every whale-ship takes out a goodly number of letters for various ships,
Moooo moooo-mooo moooo moo m mooooo mooooo mo moooooo moo moooooo moooo,

whose delivery to the persons to whom they may be addressed, depends
moooo mooooooo mo moo moooooo mo mooo mooo moo mo moooooooo, moooooo

upon the mere chance of encountering them in the four oceans. Thus,
mooo moo mooo mooooo mo mooooooooooo mooo mo moo mooo mooooo. Mooo,

most letters never reach their mark; and many are only received after
mooo moooooo moooo moooo moooo mooo; moo mooo moo mooo mooooooo moooo

attaining an age of two or three years or more.
moooooooo mo moo mo moo mo moooo moooo mo mooo.




Soon Starbuck returned with a letter in his hand. It was sorely tumbled,
Mooo Mooooooo mooooooo mooo m mooooo mo moo mooo. Mo moo mooooo moooooo,

damp, and covered with a dull, spotted, green mould, in consequence
mooo, moo moooooo mooo m mooo, moooooo, moooo moooo, mo moooooooooo

of being kept in a dark locker of the cabin. Of such a letter, Death
mo moooo mooo mo m mooo mooooo mo moo moooo. Mo mooo m mooooo, Moooo

himself might well have been the post-boy.
moooooo moooo mooo mooo mooo moo mooo-moo.




"Can'st not read it?" cried Ahab. "Give it me, man. Aye, aye, it's but
"Moo'mo moo mooo mo?" moooo Mooo. "Mooo mo mo, moo. Moo, moo, mo'm moo

a dim scrawl;--what's this?" As he was studying it out, Starbuck took a
m moo mooooo;--mooo'm mooo?" Mo mo moo mooooooo mo moo, Mooooooo mooo m

long cutting-spade pole, and with his knife slightly split the end, to
mooo moooooo-moooo mooo, moo mooo moo moooo mooooooo moooo moo moo, mo

insert the letter there, and in that way, hand it to the boat, without
mooooo moo mooooo moooo, moo mo mooo moo, mooo mo mo moo mooo, moooooo

its coming any closer to the ship.
moo mooooo moo mooooo mo moo mooo.




Meantime, Ahab holding the letter, muttered, "Mr. Har--yes, Mr.
Mooooooo, Mooo moooooo moo mooooo, mooooooo, "Mo. Moo--moo, Mo.

Harry--(a woman's pinny hand,--the man's wife, I'll wager)--Aye--Mr.
Moooo--(m moooo'm moooo mooo,--moo moo'm mooo, M'mo moooo)--Moo--Mo.

Harry Macey, Ship Jeroboam;--why it's Macey, and he's dead!"
Moooo Moooo, Mooo Mooooooo;--moo mo'm Moooo, moo mo'm mooo!"




"Poor fellow! poor fellow! and from his wife," sighed Mayhew; "but let
"Mooo mooooo! mooo mooooo! moo mooo moo mooo," mooooo Mooooo; "moo moo

me have it."
mo mooo mo."




"Nay, keep it thyself," cried Gabriel to Ahab; "thou art soon going that
"Moo, mooo mo moooooo," moooo Moooooo mo Mooo; "mooo moo mooo moooo mooo

way."
moo."




"Curses throttle thee!" yelled Ahab. "Captain Mayhew, stand by now to
"Mooooo mooooooo mooo!" mooooo Mooo. "Moooooo Mooooo, moooo mo moo mo

receive it"; and taking the fatal missive from Starbuck's hands, he
moooooo mo"; moo mooooo moo moooo moooooo mooo Mooooooo'm moooo, mo

caught it in the slit of the pole, and reached it over towards the boat.
mooooo mo mo moo mooo mo moo mooo, moo moooooo mo mooo moooooo moo mooo.

But as he did so, the oarsmen expectantly desisted from rowing; the boat
Moo mo mo moo mo, moo moooooo moooooooooo mooooooo mooo mooooo; moo mooo

drifted a little towards the ship's stern; so that, as if by magic, the
moooooo m mooooo moooooo moo mooo'm moooo; mo mooo, mo mo mo moooo, moo

letter suddenly ranged along with Gabriel's eager hand. He clutched it
mooooo mooooooo mooooo moooo mooo Moooooo'm moooo mooo. Mo mooooooo mo

in an instant, seized the boat-knife, and impaling the letter on it,
mo mo moooooo, mooooo moo mooo-moooo, moo mooooooo moo mooooo mo mo,

sent it thus loaded back into the ship. It fell at Ahab's feet. Then
mooo mo mooo mooooo mooo mooo moo mooo. Mo mooo mo Mooo'm mooo. Mooo

Gabriel shrieked out to his comrades to give way with their oars, and in
Moooooo mooooooo moo mo moo mooooooo mo mooo moo mooo moooo mooo, moo mo

that manner the mutinous boat rapidly shot away from the Pequod.
mooo mooooo moo mooooooo mooo moooooo mooo mooo mooo moo Mooooo.




As, after this interlude, the seamen resumed their work upon the jacket
Mo, moooo mooo moooooooo, moo mooooo moooooo moooo mooo mooo moo mooooo

of the whale, many strange things were hinted in reference to this wild
mo moo moooo, mooo moooooo mooooo mooo mooooo mo moooooooo mo mooo mooo

affair.
mooooo.










CHAPTER 72. The Monkey-Rope.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Mooooo-Mooo.







In the tumultuous business of cutting-in and attending to a whale, there
Mo moo mooooooooo mooooooo mo moooooo-mo moo moooooooo mo m moooo, moooo

is much running backwards and forwards among the crew. Now hands are
mo mooo moooooo moooooooo moo mooooooo moooo moo mooo. Moo moooo moo

wanted here, and then again hands are wanted there. There is no staying
mooooo mooo, moo mooo moooo moooo moo mooooo moooo. Moooo mo mo moooooo

in any one place; for at one and the same time everything has to be done
mo moo moo moooo; moo mo moo moo moo mooo mooo mooooooooo moo mo mo mooo

everywhere. It is much the same with him who endeavors the description
mooooooooo. Mo mo mooo moo mooo mooo moo moo moooooooo moo moooooooooo

of the scene. We must now retrace our way a little. It was mentioned
mo moo moooo. Mo mooo moo moooooo moo moo m mooooo. Mo moo moooooooo

that upon first breaking ground in the whale's back, the blubber-hook
mooo mooo moooo mooooooo mooooo mo moo moooo'm mooo, moo moooooo-mooo

was inserted into the original hole there cut by the spades of the
moo mooooooo mooo moo mooooooo mooo moooo moo mo moo mooooo mo moo

mates. But how did so clumsy and weighty a mass as that same hook
moooo. Moo moo moo mo mooooo moo moooooo m mooo mo mooo mooo mooo

get fixed in that hole? It was inserted there by my particular friend
moo moooo mo mooo mooo? Mo moo mooooooo moooo mo mo mooooooooo mooooo

Queequeg, whose duty it was, as harpooneer, to descend upon the
Mooooooo, moooo mooo mo moo, mo mooooooooo, mo moooooo mooo moo

monster's back for the special purpose referred to. But in very many
moooooo'm mooo moo moo moooooo moooooo mooooooo mo. Moo mo mooo mooo

cases, circumstances require that the harpooneer shall remain on the
moooo, moooooooooooo moooooo mooo moo mooooooooo moooo mooooo mo moo

whale till the whole flensing or stripping operation is concluded. The
moooo mooo moo moooo mooooooo mo moooooooo moooooooo mo moooooooo. Moo

whale, be it observed, lies almost entirely submerged, excepting the
moooo, mo mo mooooooo, mooo mooooo mooooooo moooooooo, moooooooo moo

immediate parts operated upon. So down there, some ten feet below the
moooooooo moooo mooooooo mooo. Mo mooo moooo, mooo moo mooo moooo moo

level of the deck, the poor harpooneer flounders about, half on the
moooo mo moo mooo, moo mooo mooooooooo moooooooo moooo, mooo mo moo

whale and half in the water, as the vast mass revolves like a tread-mill
moooo moo mooo mo moo moooo, mo moo mooo mooo mooooooo mooo m moooo-mooo

beneath him. On the occasion in question, Queequeg figured in the
moooooo moo. Mo moo mooooooo mo mooooooo, Mooooooo moooooo mo moo

Highland costume--a shirt and socks--in which to my eyes, at least,
Mooooooo moooooo--m moooo moo moooo--mo moooo mo mo mooo, mo moooo,

he appeared to uncommon advantage; and no one had a better chance to
mo mooooooo mo mooooooo moooooooo; moo mo moo moo m mooooo mooooo mo

observe him, as will presently be seen.
moooooo moo, mo mooo moooooooo mo mooo.




Being the savage's bowsman, that is, the person who pulled the bow-oar
Moooo moo mooooo'm moooooo, mooo mo, moo mooooo moo mooooo moo moo-moo

in his boat (the second one from forward), it was my cheerful duty to
mo moo mooo (moo mooooo moo mooo moooooo), mo moo mo mooooooo mooo mo

attend upon him while taking that hard-scrabble scramble upon the dead
mooooo mooo moo moooo mooooo mooo mooo-mooooooo mooooooo mooo moo mooo

whale's back. You have seen Italian organ-boys holding a dancing-ape by
moooo'm mooo. Moo mooo mooo Moooooo moooo-mooo moooooo m moooooo-moo mo

a long cord. Just so, from the ship's steep side, did I hold Queequeg
m mooo mooo. Mooo mo, mooo moo mooo'm moooo mooo, moo M mooo Mooooooo

down there in the sea, by what is technically called in the fishery
mooo moooo mo moo moo, mo mooo mo moooooooooo mooooo mo moo moooooo

a monkey-rope, attached to a strong strip of canvas belted round his
m mooooo-mooo, mooooooo mo m mooooo moooo mo mooooo mooooo moooo moo

waist.
moooo.




It was a humorously perilous business for both of us. For, before we
Mo moo m mooooooooo mooooooo mooooooo moo mooo mo mo. Moo, mooooo mo

proceed further, it must be said that the monkey-rope was fast at
moooooo moooooo, mo mooo mo mooo mooo moo mooooo-mooo moo mooo mo

both ends; fast to Queequeg's broad canvas belt, and fast to my narrow
mooo mooo; mooo mo Mooooooo'm moooo mooooo mooo, moo mooo mo mo mooooo

leather one. So that for better or for worse, we two, for the time, were
moooooo moo. Mo mooo moo mooooo mo moo moooo, mo moo, moo moo mooo, mooo

wedded; and should poor Queequeg sink to rise no more, then both usage
mooooo; moo mooooo mooo Mooooooo mooo mo mooo mo mooo, mooo mooo moooo

and honour demanded, that instead of cutting the cord, it should drag
moo mooooo mooooooo, mooo moooooo mo moooooo moo mooo, mo mooooo mooo

me down in his wake. So, then, an elongated Siamese ligature united us.
mo mooo mo moo mooo. Mo, mooo, mo moooooooo Moooooo mooooooo mooooo mo.

Queequeg was my own inseparable twin brother; nor could I any way get
Mooooooo moo mo moo moooooooooo mooo moooooo; moo moooo M moo moo moo

rid of the dangerous liabilities which the hempen bond entailed.
moo mo moo moooooooo moooooooooo moooo moo mooooo mooo mooooooo.




So strongly and metaphysically did I conceive of my situation then, that
Mo mooooooo moo mooooooooooooo moo M mooooooo mo mo moooooooo mooo, mooo

while earnestly watching his motions, I seemed distinctly to perceive
moooo moooooooo mooooooo moo moooooo, M mooooo mooooooooo mo mooooooo

that my own individuality was now merged in a joint stock company of
mooo mo moo moooooooooooo moo moo mooooo mo m moooo moooo moooooo mo

two; that my free will had received a mortal wound; and that another's
moo; mooo mo mooo mooo moo mooooooo m mooooo moooo; moo mooo moooooo'm

mistake or misfortune might plunge innocent me into unmerited disaster
moooooo mo mooooooooo moooo mooooo mooooooo mo mooo moooooooo mooooooo

and death. Therefore, I saw that here was a sort of interregnum in
moo moooo. Moooooooo, M moo mooo mooo moo m mooo mo moooooooooo mo

Providence; for its even-handed equity never could have so gross an
Mooooooooo; moo moo mooo-mooooo mooooo moooo moooo mooo mo moooo mo

injustice. And yet still further pondering--while I jerked him now
moooooooo. Moo moo moooo moooooo moooooooo--moooo M mooooo moo moo

and then from between the whale and ship, which would threaten to jam
moo mooo mooo moooooo moo moooo moo mooo, moooo moooo mooooooo mo moo

him--still further pondering, I say, I saw that this situation of mine
moo--moooo moooooo moooooooo, M moo, M moo mooo mooo moooooooo mo mooo

was the precise situation of every mortal that breathes; only, in most
moo moo moooooo moooooooo mo moooo mooooo mooo mooooooo; mooo, mo mooo

cases, he, one way or other, has this Siamese connexion with a plurality
moooo, mo, moo moo mo moooo, moo mooo Moooooo moooooooo mooo m moooooooo

of other mortals. If your banker breaks, you snap; if your apothecary by
mo moooo moooooo. Mo mooo mooooo mooooo, moo mooo; mo mooo mooooooooo mo

mistake sends you poison in your pills, you die. True, you may say
moooooo moooo moo mooooo mo mooo moooo, moo moo. Mooo, moo moo moo

that, by exceeding caution, you may possibly escape these and the
mooo, mo moooooooo moooooo, moo moo mooooooo mooooo moooo moo moo

multitudinous other evil chances of life. But handle Queequeg's
moooooooooooo moooo mooo moooooo mo mooo. Moo mooooo Mooooooo'm

monkey-rope heedfully as I would, sometimes he jerked it so, that I came
mooooo-mooo moooooooo mo M moooo, moooooooo mo mooooo mo mo, mooo M mooo

very near sliding overboard. Nor could I possibly forget that, do what I
mooo mooo moooooo moooooooo. Moo moooo M mooooooo mooooo mooo, mo mooo M

would, I only had the management of one end of it.*
moooo, M mooo moo moo mooooooooo mo moo moo mo mo.*







*The monkey-rope is found in all whalers; but it was only in the Pequod
*Moo mooooo-mooo mo moooo mo moo moooooo; moo mo moo mooo mo moo Mooooo

that the monkey and his holder were ever tied together. This improvement
mooo moo mooooo moo moo mooooo mooo mooo mooo mooooooo. Mooo moooooooooo

upon the original usage was introduced by no less a man than Stubb,
mooo moo mooooooo moooo moo mooooooooo mo mo mooo m moo mooo Moooo,

in order to afford the imperilled harpooneer the strongest possible
mo moooo mo mooooo moo mooooooooo mooooooooo moo moooooooo mooooooo

guarantee for the faithfulness and vigilance of his monkey-rope holder.
moooooooo moo moo mooooooooooo moo moooooooo mo moo mooooo-mooo mooooo.







I have hinted that I would often jerk poor Queequeg from between the
M mooo mooooo mooo M moooo moooo mooo mooo Mooooooo mooo moooooo moo

whale and the ship--where he would occasionally fall, from the incessant
moooo moo moo mooo--moooo mo moooo mooooooooooo mooo, mooo moo moooooooo

rolling and swaying of both. But this was not the only jamming jeopardy
moooooo moo moooooo mo mooo. Moo mooo moo moo moo mooo moooooo mooooooo

he was exposed to. Unappalled by the massacre made upon them during the
mo moo moooooo mo. Mooooooooo mo moo mooooooo mooo mooo mooo mooooo moo

night, the sharks now freshly and more keenly allured by the before pent
moooo, moo mooooo moo moooooo moo mooo mooooo moooooo mo moo mooooo mooo

blood which began to flow from the carcass--the rabid creatures swarmed
moooo moooo moooo mo mooo mooo moo moooooo--moo moooo moooooooo moooooo

round it like bees in a beehive.
moooo mo mooo mooo mo m moooooo.




And right in among those sharks was Queequeg; who often pushed them
Moo moooo mo moooo moooo mooooo moo Mooooooo; moo moooo mooooo mooo

aside with his floundering feet. A thing altogether incredible were
moooo mooo moo moooooooooo mooo. M moooo mooooooooo mooooooooo mooo

it not that attracted by such prey as a dead whale, the otherwise
mo moo mooo moooooooo mo mooo mooo mo m mooo moooo, moo moooooooo

miscellaneously carnivorous shark will seldom touch a man.
moooooooooooooo moooooooooo moooo mooo mooooo moooo m moo.




Nevertheless, it may well be believed that since they have such a
Mooooooooooo, mo moo mooo mo mooooooo mooo moooo mooo mooo mooo m

ravenous finger in the pie, it is deemed but wise to look sharp to them.
mooooooo mooooo mo moo moo, mo mo mooooo moo mooo mo mooo moooo mo mooo.

Accordingly, besides the monkey-rope, with which I now and then jerked
Moooooooooo, moooooo moo mooooo-mooo, mooo moooo M moo moo mooo mooooo

the poor fellow from too close a vicinity to the maw of what seemed
moo mooo mooooo mooo moo moooo m mooooooo mo moo moo mo mooo mooooo

a peculiarly ferocious shark--he was provided with still another
m mooooooooo moooooooo moooo--mo moo mooooooo mooo moooo moooooo

protection. Suspended over the side in one of the stages, Tashtego
mooooooooo. Moooooooo mooo moo mooo mo moo mo moo mooooo, Mooooooo

and Daggoo continually flourished over his head a couple of keen
moo Mooooo moooooooooo mooooooooo mooo moo mooo m mooooo mo mooo

whale-spades, wherewith they slaughtered as many sharks as they could
moooo-mooooo, moooooooo mooo moooooooooo mo mooo mooooo mo mooo moooo

reach. This procedure of theirs, to be sure, was very disinterested and
moooo. Mooo moooooooo mo mooooo, mo mo mooo, moo mooo moooooooooooo moo

benevolent of them. They meant Queequeg's best happiness, I admit; but
mooooooooo mo mooo. Mooo moooo Mooooooo'm mooo moooooooo, M moooo; moo

in their hasty zeal to befriend him, and from the circumstance that both
mo moooo moooo mooo mo mooooooo moo, moo mooo moo mooooooooooo mooo mooo

he and the sharks were at times half hidden by the blood-muddled water,
mo moo moo mooooo mooo mo moooo mooo mooooo mo moo moooo-moooooo moooo,

those indiscreet spades of theirs would come nearer amputating a leg
moooo mooooooooo mooooo mo mooooo moooo mooo mooooo mooooooooo m moo

than a tail. But poor Queequeg, I suppose, straining and gasping there
mooo m mooo. Moo mooo Mooooooo, M moooooo, moooooooo moo moooooo moooo

with that great iron hook--poor Queequeg, I suppose, only prayed to his
mooo mooo moooo mooo mooo--mooo Mooooooo, M moooooo, mooo mooooo mo moo

Yojo, and gave up his life into the hands of his gods.
Mooo, moo mooo mo moo mooo mooo moo moooo mo moo mooo.




Well, well, my dear comrade and twin-brother, thought I, as I drew in
Mooo, mooo, mo mooo moooooo moo mooo-moooooo, moooooo M, mo M mooo mo

and then slacked off the rope to every swell of the sea--what matters
moo mooo moooooo moo moo mooo mo moooo moooo mo moo moo--mooo moooooo

it, after all? Are you not the precious image of each and all of us men
mo, moooo moo? Moo moo moo moo mooooooo moooo mo mooo moo moo mo mo moo

in this whaling world? That unsounded ocean you gasp in, is Life; those
mo mooo moooooo moooo? Mooo moooooooo moooo moo mooo mo, mo Mooo; moooo

sharks, your foes; those spades, your friends; and what between sharks
mooooo, mooo mooo; moooo mooooo, mooo moooooo; moo mooo moooooo mooooo

and spades you are in a sad pickle and peril, poor lad.
moo mooooo moo moo mo m moo mooooo moo moooo, mooo moo.




But courage! there is good cheer in store for you, Queequeg. For now, as
Moo moooooo! moooo mo mooo moooo mo moooo moo moo, Mooooooo. Moo moo, mo

with blue lips and blood-shot eyes the exhausted savage at last climbs
mooo mooo mooo moo moooo-mooo mooo moo moooooooo mooooo mo mooo mooooo

up the chains and stands all dripping and involuntarily trembling over
mo moo mooooo moo mooooo moo mooooooo moo moooooooooooo moooooooo mooo

the side; the steward advances, and with a benevolent, consolatory
moo mooo; moo moooooo mooooooo, moo mooo m mooooooooo, moooooooooo

glance hands him--what? Some hot Cognac? No! hands him, ye gods! hands
mooooo moooo moo--mooo? Mooo moo Mooooo? Mo! moooo moo, mo mooo! moooo

him a cup of tepid ginger and water!
moo m moo mo moooo mooooo moo moooo!




"Ginger? Do I smell ginger?" suspiciously asked Stubb, coming near.
"Mooooo? Mo M moooo mooooo?" mooooooooooo moooo Moooo, mooooo mooo.

"Yes, this must be ginger," peering into the as yet untasted cup. Then
"Moo, mooo mooo mo mooooo," moooooo mooo moo mo moo mooooooo moo. Mooo

standing as if incredulous for a while, he calmly walked towards the
mooooooo mo mo moooooooooo moo m moooo, mo mooooo mooooo moooooo moo

astonished steward slowly saying, "Ginger? ginger? and will you have
mooooooooo moooooo mooooo mooooo, "Mooooo? mooooo? moo mooo moo mooo

the goodness to tell me, Mr. Dough-Boy, where lies the virtue of ginger?
moo mooooooo mo mooo mo, Mo. Moooo-Moo, moooo mooo moo mooooo mo mooooo?

Ginger! is ginger the sort of fuel you use, Dough-boy, to kindle a fire
Mooooo! mo mooooo moo mooo mo mooo moo moo, Moooo-moo, mo mooooo m mooo

in this shivering cannibal? Ginger!--what the devil is ginger?
mo mooo moooooooo mooooooo? Mooooo!--mooo moo moooo mo mooooo?

Sea-coal? firewood?--lucifer matches?--tinder?--gunpowder?--what the
Moo-mooo? mooooooo?--moooooo moooooo?--mooooo?--moooooooo?--mooo moo

devil is ginger, I say, that you offer this cup to our poor Queequeg
moooo mo mooooo, M moo, mooo moo moooo mooo moo mo moo mooo Mooooooo

here."
mooo."




"There is some sneaking Temperance Society movement about this
"Moooo mo mooo mooooooo Mooooooooo Moooooo mooooooo moooo mooo

business," he suddenly added, now approaching Starbuck, who had just
mooooooo," mo mooooooo moooo, moo moooooooooo Mooooooo, moo moo mooo

come from forward. "Will you look at that kannakin, sir; smell of it,
mooo mooo moooooo. "Mooo moo mooo mo mooo mooooooo, moo; moooo mo mo,

if you please." Then watching the mate's countenance, he added, "The
mo moo mooooo." Mooo mooooooo moo mooo'm moooooooooo, mo moooo, "Moo

steward, Mr. Starbuck, had the face to offer that calomel and jalap
moooooo, Mo. Mooooooo, moo moo mooo mo moooo mooo moooooo moo moooo

to Queequeg, there, this instant off the whale. Is the steward an
mo Mooooooo, moooo, mooo moooooo moo moo moooo. Mo moo moooooo mo

apothecary, sir? and may I ask whether this is the sort of bitters by
mooooooooo, moo? moo moo M moo moooooo mooo mo moo mooo mo moooooo mo

which he blows back the life into a half-drowned man?"
moooo mo moooo mooo moo mooo mooo m mooo-moooooo moo?"




"I trust not," said Starbuck, "it is poor stuff enough."
"M moooo moo," mooo Mooooooo, "mo mo mooo moooo mooooo."




"Aye, aye, steward," cried Stubb, "we'll teach you to drug a
"Moo, moo, moooooo," moooo Moooo, "mo'mo moooo moo mo mooo m

harpooneer; none of your apothecary's medicine here; you want to poison
mooooooooo; mooo mo mooo mooooooooo'm mooooooo mooo; moo mooo mo mooooo

us, do ye? You have got out insurances on our lives and want to murder
mo, mo mo? Moo mooo moo moo mooooooooo mo moo moooo moo mooo mo mooooo

us all, and pocket the proceeds, do ye?"
mo moo, moo mooooo moo mooooooo, mo mo?"




"It was not me," cried Dough-Boy, "it was Aunt Charity that brought the
"Mo moo moo mo," moooo Moooo-Moo, "mo moo Mooo Moooooo mooo moooooo moo

ginger on board; and bade me never give the harpooneers any spirits, but
mooooo mo moooo; moo mooo mo moooo mooo moo moooooooooo moo moooooo, moo

only this ginger-jub--so she called it."
mooo mooo mooooo-moo--mo moo mooooo mo."




"Ginger-jub! you gingerly rascal! take that! and run along with ye
"Mooooo-moo! moo mooooooo mooooo! mooo mooo! moo moo moooo mooo mo

to the lockers, and get something better. I hope I do no wrong, Mr.
mo moo moooooo, moo moo moooooooo mooooo. M mooo M mo mo moooo, Mo.

Starbuck. It is the captain's orders--grog for the harpooneer on a
Mooooooo. Mo mo moo moooooo'm mooooo--mooo moo moo mooooooooo mo m

whale."
moooo."




"Enough," replied Starbuck, "only don't hit him again, but--"
"Mooooo," moooooo Mooooooo, "mooo moo'm moo moo moooo, moo--"




"Oh, I never hurt when I hit, except when I hit a whale or something of
"Mo, M moooo mooo mooo M moo, mooooo mooo M moo m moooo mo moooooooo mo

that sort; and this fellow's a weazel. What were you about saying, sir?"
mooo mooo; moo mooo mooooo'm m mooooo. Mooo mooo moo moooo mooooo, moo?"




"Only this: go down with him, and get what thou wantest thyself."
"Mooo mooo: mo mooo mooo moo, moo moo mooo mooo moooooo moooooo."




When Stubb reappeared, he came with a dark flask in one hand, and a sort
Mooo Moooo mooooooooo, mo mooo mooo m mooo moooo mo moo mooo, moo m mooo

of tea-caddy in the other. The first contained strong spirits, and was
mo moo-moooo mo moo moooo. Moo moooo moooooooo mooooo moooooo, moo moo

handed to Queequeg; the second was Aunt Charity's gift, and that was
mooooo mo Mooooooo; moo mooooo moo Mooo Moooooo'm mooo, moo mooo moo

freely given to the waves.
mooooo moooo mo moo moooo.










CHAPTER 73. Stubb and Flask Kill a Right Whale; and Then Have a Talk
MOOOOOO mo. Moooo moo Moooo Mooo m Moooo Moooo; moo Mooo Mooo m Mooo

Over Him.
Mooo Moo.







It must be borne in mind that all this time we have a Sperm Whale's
Mo mooo mo moooo mo mooo mooo moo mooo mooo mo mooo m Moooo Moooo'm

prodigious head hanging to the Pequod's side. But we must let it
mooooooooo mooo moooooo mo moo Mooooo'm mooo. Moo mo mooo moo mo

continue hanging there a while till we can get a chance to attend to it.
mooooooo moooooo moooo m moooo mooo mo moo moo m mooooo mo mooooo mo mo.

For the present other matters press, and the best we can do now for the
Moo moo moooooo moooo moooooo moooo, moo moo mooo mo moo mo moo moo moo

head, is to pray heaven the tackles may hold.
mooo, mo mo mooo mooooo moo moooooo moo mooo.




Now, during the past night and forenoon, the Pequod had gradually
Moo, mooooo moo mooo moooo moo mooooooo, moo Mooooo moo moooooooo

drifted into a sea, which, by its occasional patches of yellow brit,
moooooo mooo m moo, moooo, mo moo mooooooooo moooooo mo mooooo mooo,

gave unusual tokens of the vicinity of Right Whales, a species of the
mooo moooooo mooooo mo moo mooooooo mo Moooo Mooooo, m moooooo mo moo

Leviathan that but few supposed to be at this particular time lurking
Moooooooo mooo moo moo mooooooo mo mo mo mooo mooooooooo mooo moooooo

anywhere near. And though all hands commonly disdained the capture of
mooooooo mooo. Moo mooooo moo moooo mooooooo moooooooo moo moooooo mo

those inferior creatures; and though the Pequod was not commissioned to
moooo mooooooo moooooooo; moo mooooo moo Mooooo moo moo mooooooooooo mo

cruise for them at all, and though she had passed numbers of them near
mooooo moo mooo mo moo, moo mooooo moo moo mooooo moooooo mo mooo mooo

the Crozetts without lowering a boat; yet now that a Sperm Whale
moo Mooooooo moooooo mooooooo m mooo; moo moo mooo m Moooo Moooo

had been brought alongside and beheaded, to the surprise of all, the
moo mooo moooooo moooooooo moo mooooooo, mo moo mooooooo mo moo, moo

announcement was made that a Right Whale should be captured that day, if
mooooooooooo moo mooo mooo m Moooo Moooo mooooo mo mooooooo mooo moo, mo

opportunity offered.
moooooooooo moooooo.




Nor was this long wanting. Tall spouts were seen to leeward; and two
Moo moo mooo mooo moooooo. Mooo mooooo mooo mooo mo moooooo; moo moo

boats, Stubb's and Flask's, were detached in pursuit. Pulling further
moooo, Moooo'm moo Moooo'm, mooo mooooooo mo moooooo. Moooooo moooooo

and further away, they at last became almost invisible to the men at
moo moooooo mooo, mooo mo mooo mooooo mooooo moooooooo mo moo moo mo

the mast-head. But suddenly in the distance, they saw a great heap of
moo mooo-mooo. Moo mooooooo mo moo mooooooo, mooo moo m moooo mooo mo

tumultuous white water, and soon after news came from aloft that one or
mooooooooo moooo moooo, moo mooo moooo mooo mooo mooo moooo mooo moo mo

both the boats must be fast. An interval passed and the boats were in
mooo moo moooo mooo mo mooo. Mo mooooooo mooooo moo moo moooo mooo mo

plain sight, in the act of being dragged right towards the ship by the
moooo moooo, mo moo moo mo moooo moooooo moooo moooooo moo mooo mo moo

towing whale. So close did the monster come to the hull, that at
mooooo moooo. Mo moooo moo moo moooooo mooo mo moo mooo, mooo mo

first it seemed as if he meant it malice; but suddenly going down in a
moooo mo mooooo mo mo mo moooo mo mooooo; moo mooooooo moooo mooo mo m

maelstrom, within three rods of the planks, he wholly disappeared from
moooooooo, mooooo moooo mooo mo moo mooooo, mo mooooo moooooooooo mooo

view, as if diving under the keel. "Cut, cut!" was the cry from the
mooo, mo mo mooooo moooo moo mooo. "Moo, moo!" moo moo moo mooo moo

ship to the boats, which, for one instant, seemed on the point of being
mooo mo moo moooo, moooo, moo moo moooooo, mooooo mo moo moooo mo moooo

brought with a deadly dash against the vessel's side. But having plenty
moooooo mooo m mooooo mooo moooooo moo mooooo'm mooo. Moo mooooo mooooo

of line yet in the tubs, and the whale not sounding very rapidly, they
mo mooo moo mo moo mooo, moo moo moooo moo mooooooo mooo moooooo, mooo

paid out abundance of rope, and at the same time pulled with all their
mooo moo moooooooo mo mooo, moo mo moo mooo mooo mooooo mooo moo moooo

might so as to get ahead of the ship. For a few minutes the struggle was
moooo mo mo mo moo moooo mo moo mooo. Moo m moo moooooo moo mooooooo moo

intensely critical; for while they still slacked out the tightened line
moooooooo mooooooo; moo moooo mooo moooo moooooo moo moo moooooooo mooo

in one direction, and still plied their oars in another, the contending
mo moo moooooooo, moo moooo moooo moooo mooo mo moooooo, moo mooooooooo

strain threatened to take them under. But it was only a few feet advance
mooooo mooooooooo mo mooo mooo moooo. Moo mo moo mooo m moo mooo moooooo

they sought to gain. And they stuck to it till they did gain it; when
mooo mooooo mo mooo. Moo mooo moooo mo mo mooo mooo moo mooo mo; mooo

instantly, a swift tremor was felt running like lightning along the
moooooooo, m moooo mooooo moo mooo moooooo mooo moooooooo moooo moo

keel, as the strained line, scraping beneath the ship, suddenly rose
mooo, mo moo mooooooo mooo, mooooooo moooooo moo mooo, mooooooo mooo

to view under her bows, snapping and quivering; and so flinging off its
mo mooo moooo moo mooo, mooooooo moo moooooooo; moo mo mooooooo moo moo

drippings, that the drops fell like bits of broken glass on the water,
moooooooo, mooo moo moooo mooo mooo mooo mo mooooo moooo mo moo moooo,

while the whale beyond also rose to sight, and once more the boats were
moooo moo moooo mooooo mooo mooo mo moooo, moo mooo mooo moo moooo mooo

free to fly. But the fagged whale abated his speed, and blindly altering
mooo mo moo. Moo moo mooooo moooo mooooo moo moooo, moo moooooo mooooooo

his course, went round the stern of the ship towing the two boats after
moo mooooo, mooo moooo moo moooo mo moo mooo mooooo moo moo moooo moooo

him, so that they performed a complete circuit.
moo, mo mooo mooo moooooooo m mooooooo moooooo.




Meantime, they hauled more and more upon their lines, till close
Mooooooo, mooo mooooo mooo moo mooo mooo moooo moooo, mooo moooo

flanking him on both sides, Stubb answered Flask with lance for
mooooooo moo mo mooo moooo, Moooo mooooooo Moooo mooo moooo moo

lance; and thus round and round the Pequod the battle went, while the
moooo; moo mooo moooo moo moooo moo Mooooo moo mooooo mooo, moooo moo

multitudes of sharks that had before swum round the Sperm Whale's body,
mooooooooo mo mooooo mooo moo mooooo mooo moooo moo Moooo Moooo'm mooo,

rushed to the fresh blood that was spilled, thirstily drinking at every
mooooo mo moo moooo moooo mooo moo moooooo, moooooooo mooooooo mo moooo

new gash, as the eager Israelites did at the new bursting fountains that
moo mooo, mo moo moooo Mooooooooo moo mo moo moo mooooooo moooooooo mooo

poured from the smitten rock.
mooooo mooo moo moooooo mooo.




At last his spout grew thick, and with a frightful roll and vomit, he
Mo mooo moo moooo mooo moooo, moo mooo m moooooooo mooo moo moooo, mo

turned upon his back a corpse.
mooooo mooo moo mooo m mooooo.




While the two headsmen were engaged in making fast cords to his flukes,
Moooo moo moo mooooooo mooo moooooo mo mooooo mooo moooo mo moo mooooo,

and in other ways getting the mass in readiness for towing, some
moo mo moooo mooo moooooo moo mooo mo moooooooo moo mooooo, mooo

conversation ensued between them.
mooooooooooo mooooo moooooo mooo.




"I wonder what the old man wants with this lump of foul lard," said
"M mooooo mooo moo moo moo moooo mooo mooo mooo mo mooo mooo," mooo

Stubb, not without some disgust at the thought of having to do with so
Moooo, moo moooooo mooo moooooo mo moo moooooo mo mooooo mo mo mooo mo

ignoble a leviathan.
moooooo m moooooooo.




"Wants with it?" said Flask, coiling some spare line in the boat's bow,
"Moooo mooo mo?" mooo Moooo, moooooo mooo moooo mooo mo moo mooo'm moo,

"did you never hear that the ship which but once has a Sperm Whale's
"moo moo moooo mooo mooo moo mooo moooo moo mooo moo m Moooo Moooo'm

head hoisted on her starboard side, and at the same time a Right Whale's
mooo moooooo mo moo moooooooo mooo, moo mo moo mooo mooo m Moooo Moooo'm

on the larboard; did you never hear, Stubb, that that ship can never
mo moo mooooooo; moo moo moooo mooo, Moooo, mooo mooo mooo moo moooo

afterwards capsize?"
mooooooooo moooooo?"




"Why not?
"Moo moo?




"I don't know, but I heard that gamboge ghost of a Fedallah saying so,
"M moo'm mooo, moo M moooo mooo moooooo moooo mo m Mooooooo mooooo mo,

and he seems to know all about ships' charms. But I sometimes think
moo mo moooo mo mooo moo moooo moooo' mooooo. Moo M moooooooo moooo

he'll charm the ship to no good at last. I don't half like that chap,
mo'mo moooo moo mooo mo mo mooo mo mooo. M moo'm mooo mooo mooo mooo,

Stubb. Did you ever notice how that tusk of his is a sort of carved into
Moooo. Moo moo mooo mooooo moo mooo mooo mo moo mo m mooo mo mooooo mooo

a snake's head, Stubb?"
m moooo'm mooo, Moooo?"




"Sink him! I never look at him at all; but if ever I get a chance of a
"Mooo moo! M moooo mooo mo moo mo moo; moo mo mooo M moo m mooooo mo m

dark night, and he standing hard by the bulwarks, and no one by; look
mooo moooo, moo mo mooooooo mooo mo moo mooooooo, moo mo moo mo; mooo

down there, Flask"--pointing into the sea with a peculiar motion of
mooo moooo, Moooo"--mooooooo mooo moo moo mooo m mooooooo mooooo mo

both hands--"Aye, will I! Flask, I take that Fedallah to be the devil in
mooo moooo--"Moo, mooo M! Moooo, M mooo mooo Mooooooo mo mo moo moooo mo

disguise. Do you believe that cock and bull story about his having been
mooooooo. Mo moo moooooo mooo mooo moo mooo moooo moooo moo mooooo mooo

stowed away on board ship? He's the devil, I say. The reason why you
mooooo mooo mo moooo mooo? Mo'm moo moooo, M moo. Moo mooooo moo moo

don't see his tail, is because he tucks it up out of sight; he carries
moo'm moo moo mooo, mo moooooo mo moooo mo mo moo mo moooo; mo moooooo

it coiled away in his pocket, I guess. Blast him! now that I think of
mo mooooo mooo mo moo mooooo, M moooo. Moooo moo! moo mooo M moooo mo

it, he's always wanting oakum to stuff into the toes of his boots."
mo, mo'm mooooo moooooo moooo mo moooo mooo moo mooo mo moo moooo."




"He sleeps in his boots, don't he? He hasn't got any hammock; but I've
"Mo mooooo mo moo moooo, moo'm mo? Mo mooo'm moo moo moooooo; moo M'mo

seen him lay of nights in a coil of rigging."
mooo moo moo mo mooooo mo m mooo mo moooooo."




"No doubt, and it's because of his cursed tail; he coils it down, do ye
"Mo moooo, moo mo'm moooooo mo moo mooooo mooo; mo moooo mo mooo, mo mo

see, in the eye of the rigging."
moo, mo moo moo mo moo moooooo."




"What's the old man have so much to do with him for?"
"Mooo'm moo moo moo mooo mo mooo mo mo mooo moo moo?"




"Striking up a swap or a bargain, I suppose."
"Mooooooo mo m mooo mo m moooooo, M moooooo."




"Bargain?--about what?"
"Moooooo?--moooo mooo?"




"Why, do ye see, the old man is hard bent after that White Whale, and
"Moo, mo mo moo, moo moo moo mo mooo mooo moooo mooo Moooo Moooo, moo

the devil there is trying to come round him, and get him to swap away
moo moooo moooo mo mooooo mo mooo moooo moo, moo moo moo mo mooo mooo

his silver watch, or his soul, or something of that sort, and then he'll
moo mooooo moooo, mo moo mooo, mo moooooooo mo mooo mooo, moo mooo mo'mo

surrender Moby Dick."
moooooooo Mooo Mooo."




"Pooh! Stubb, you are skylarking; how can Fedallah do that?"
"Mooo! Moooo, moo moo mooooooooo; moo moo Mooooooo mo mooo?"




"I don't know, Flask, but the devil is a curious chap, and a wicked
"M moo'm mooo, Moooo, moo moo moooo mo m moooooo mooo, moo m mooooo

one, I tell ye. Why, they say as how he went a sauntering into the
moo, M mooo mo. Moo, mooo moo mo moo mo mooo m mooooooooo mooo moo

old flag-ship once, switching his tail about devilish easy and
moo mooo-mooo mooo, moooooooo moo mooo moooo mooooooo mooo moo

gentlemanlike, and inquiring if the old governor was at home. Well, he
moooooooooooo, moo moooooooo mo moo moo mooooooo moo mo mooo. Mooo, mo

was at home, and asked the devil what he wanted. The devil, switching
moo mo mooo, moo moooo moo moooo mooo mo mooooo. Moo moooo, moooooooo

his hoofs, up and says, 'I want John.' 'What for?' says the old
moo moooo, mo moo mooo, 'M mooo Mooo.' 'Mooo moo?' mooo moo moo

governor. 'What business is that of yours,' says the devil, getting
mooooooo. 'Mooo mooooooo mo mooo mo moooo,' mooo moo moooo, moooooo

mad,--'I want to use him.' 'Take him,' says the governor--and by the
moo,--'M mooo mo moo moo.' 'Mooo moo,' mooo moo mooooooo--moo mo moo

Lord, Flask, if the devil didn't give John the Asiatic cholera before
Mooo, Moooo, mo moo moooo mooo'm mooo Mooo moo Moooooo moooooo mooooo

he got through with him, I'll eat this whale in one mouthful. But look
mo moo moooooo mooo moo, M'mo moo mooo moooo mo moo mooooooo. Moo mooo

sharp--ain't you all ready there? Well, then, pull ahead, and let's get
moooo--moo'm moo moo moooo moooo? Mooo, mooo, mooo moooo, moo moo'm moo

the whale alongside."
moo moooo moooooooo."




"I think I remember some such story as you were telling," said Flask,
"M moooo M mooooooo mooo mooo moooo mo moo mooo moooooo," mooo Moooo,

when at last the two boats were slowly advancing with their burden
mooo mo mooo moo moo moooo mooo mooooo moooooooo mooo moooo mooooo

towards the ship, "but I can't remember where."
moooooo moo mooo, "moo M moo'm mooooooo moooo."




"Three Spaniards? Adventures of those three bloody-minded soladoes? Did
"Moooo Moooooooo? Mooooooooo mo moooo moooo mooooo-mooooo mooooooo? Moo

ye read it there, Flask? I guess ye did?"
mo mooo mo moooo, Moooo? M moooo mo moo?"




"No: never saw such a book; heard of it, though. But now, tell me,
"Mo: moooo moo mooo m mooo; moooo mo mo, mooooo. Moo moo, mooo mo,

Stubb, do you suppose that that devil you was speaking of just now, was
Moooo, mo moo moooooo mooo mooo moooo moo moo mooooooo mo mooo moo, moo

the same you say is now on board the Pequod?"
moo mooo moo moo mo moo mo moooo moo Mooooo?"




"Am I the same man that helped kill this whale? Doesn't the devil live
"Mo M moo mooo moo mooo mooooo mooo mooo moooo? Moooo'm moo moooo mooo

for ever; who ever heard that the devil was dead? Did you ever see
moo mooo; moo mooo moooo mooo moo moooo moo mooo? Moo moo mooo moo

any parson a wearing mourning for the devil? And if the devil has a
moo mooooo m moooooo mooooooo moo moo moooo? Moo mo moo moooo moo m

latch-key to get into the admiral's cabin, don't you suppose he can
moooo-moo mo moo mooo moo moooooo'm moooo, moo'm moo moooooo mo moo

crawl into a porthole? Tell me that, Mr. Flask?"
moooo mooo m mooooooo? Mooo mo mooo, Mo. Moooo?"




"How old do you suppose Fedallah is, Stubb?"
"Moo moo mo moo moooooo Mooooooo mo, Moooo?"




"Do you see that mainmast there?" pointing to the ship; "well, that's
"Mo moo moo mooo mooooooo moooo?" mooooooo mo moo mooo; "mooo, mooo'm

the figure one; now take all the hoops in the Pequod's hold, and string
moo mooooo moo; moo mooo moo moo moooo mo moo Mooooo'm mooo, moo mooooo

along in a row with that mast, for oughts, do you see; well, that
moooo mo m moo mooo mooo mooo, moo mooooo, mo moo moo; mooo, mooo

wouldn't begin to be Fedallah's age. Nor all the coopers in creation
mooooo'm moooo mo mo Mooooooo'm moo. Moo moo moo moooooo mo mooooooo

couldn't show hoops enough to make oughts enough."
mooooo'm mooo moooo mooooo mo mooo mooooo mooooo."




"But see here, Stubb, I thought you a little boasted just now, that you
"Moo moo mooo, Moooo, M moooooo moo m mooooo moooooo mooo moo, mooo moo

meant to give Fedallah a sea-toss, if you got a good chance. Now, if
moooo mo mooo Mooooooo m moo-mooo, mo moo moo m mooo mooooo. Moo, mo

he's so old as all those hoops of yours come to, and if he is going
mo'm mo moo mo moo moooo moooo mo moooo mooo mo, moo mo mo mo moooo

to live for ever, what good will it do to pitch him overboard--tell me
mo mooo moo mooo, mooo mooo mooo mo mo mo moooo moo moooooooo--mooo mo

that?
mooo?




"Give him a good ducking, anyhow."
"Mooo moo m mooo moooooo, mooooo."




"But he'd crawl back."
"Moo mo'm moooo mooo."




"Duck him again; and keep ducking him."
"Mooo moo moooo; moo mooo moooooo moo."




"Suppose he should take it into his head to duck you, though--yes, and
"Moooooo mo mooooo mooo mo mooo moo mooo mo mooo moo, mooooo--moo, moo

drown you--what then?"
moooo moo--mooo mooo?"




"I should like to see him try it; I'd give him such a pair of black eyes
"M mooooo mooo mo moo moo moo mo; M'm mooo moo mooo m mooo mo moooo mooo

that he wouldn't dare to show his face in the admiral's cabin again for
mooo mo mooooo'm mooo mo mooo moo mooo mo moo moooooo'm moooo moooo moo

a long while, let alone down in the orlop there, where he lives, and
m mooo moooo, moo moooo mooo mo moo moooo moooo, moooo mo moooo, moo

hereabouts on the upper decks where he sneaks so much. Damn the devil,
mooooooooo mo moo moooo moooo moooo mo mooooo mo mooo. Mooo moo moooo,

Flask; so you suppose I'm afraid of the devil? Who's afraid of
Moooo; mo moo moooooo M'm mooooo mo moo moooo? Moo'm mooooo mo

him, except the old governor who daresn't catch him and put him in
moo, mooooo moo moo mooooooo moo mooooo'm moooo moo moo moo moo mo

double-darbies, as he deserves, but lets him go about kidnapping
mooooo-moooooo, mo mo mooooooo, moo mooo moo mo moooo mooooooooo

people; aye, and signed a bond with him, that all the people the devil
mooooo; moo, moo mooooo m mooo mooo moo, mooo moo moo mooooo moo moooo

kidnapped, he'd roast for him? There's a governor!"
moooooooo, mo'm moooo moo moo? Moooo'm m mooooooo!"




"Do you suppose Fedallah wants to kidnap Captain Ahab?"
"Mo moo moooooo Mooooooo moooo mo mooooo Moooooo Mooo?"




"Do I suppose it? You'll know it before long, Flask. But I am going now
"Mo M moooooo mo? Moo'mo mooo mo mooooo mooo, Moooo. Moo M mo moooo moo

to keep a sharp look-out on him; and if I see anything very suspicious
mo mooo m moooo mooo-moo mo moo; moo mo M moo mooooooo mooo mooooooooo

going on, I'll just take him by the nape of his neck, and say--Look
moooo mo, M'mo mooo mooo moo mo moo mooo mo moo mooo, moo moo--Mooo

here, Beelzebub, you don't do it; and if he makes any fuss, by the Lord
mooo, Moooooooo, moo moo'm mo mo; moo mo mo moooo moo mooo, mo moo Mooo

I'll make a grab into his pocket for his tail, take it to the capstan,
M'mo mooo m mooo mooo moo mooooo moo moo mooo, mooo mo mo moo moooooo,

and give him such a wrenching and heaving, that his tail will come short
moo mooo moo mooo m moooooooo moo moooooo, mooo moo mooo mooo mooo moooo

off at the stump--do you see; and then, I rather guess when he finds
moo mo moo moooo--mo moo moo; moo mooo, M mooooo moooo mooo mo moooo

himself docked in that queer fashion, he'll sneak off without the poor
moooooo mooooo mo mooo moooo moooooo, mo'mo moooo moo moooooo moo mooo

satisfaction of feeling his tail between his legs."
mooooooooooo mo moooooo moo mooo moooooo moo mooo."




"And what will you do with the tail, Stubb?"
"Moo mooo mooo moo mo mooo moo mooo, Moooo?"




"Do with it? Sell it for an ox whip when we get home;--what else?"
"Mo mooo mo? Mooo mo moo mo mo mooo mooo mo moo mooo;--mooo mooo?"




"Now, do you mean what you say, and have been saying all along, Stubb?"
"Moo, mo moo mooo mooo moo moo, moo mooo mooo mooooo moo moooo, Moooo?"




"Mean or not mean, here we are at the ship."
"Mooo mo moo mooo, mooo mo moo mo moo mooo."




The boats were here hailed, to tow the whale on the larboard side, where
Moo moooo mooo mooo mooooo, mo moo moo moooo mo moo mooooooo mooo, moooo

fluke chains and other necessaries were already prepared for securing
moooo mooooo moo moooo moooooooooo mooo moooooo mooooooo moo mooooooo

him.
moo.




"Didn't I tell you so?" said Flask; "yes, you'll soon see this right
"Mooo'm M mooo moo mo?" mooo Moooo; "moo, moo'mo mooo moo mooo moooo

whale's head hoisted up opposite that parmacetti's."
moooo'm mooo moooooo mo mooooooo mooo mooooooooo'm."




In good time, Flask's saying proved true. As before, the Pequod steeply
Mo mooo mooo, Moooo'm mooooo mooooo mooo. Mo mooooo, moo Mooooo moooooo

leaned over towards the sperm whale's head, now, by the counterpoise of
mooooo mooo moooooo moo moooo moooo'm mooo, moo, mo moo mooooooooooo mo

both heads, she regained her even keel; though sorely strained, you may
mooo moooo, moo mooooooo moo mooo mooo; mooooo mooooo mooooooo, moo moo

well believe. So, when on one side you hoist in Locke's head, you go
mooo moooooo. Mo, mooo mo moo mooo moo moooo mo Moooo'm mooo, moo mo

over that way; but now, on the other side, hoist in Kant's and you come
mooo mooo moo; moo moo, mo moo moooo mooo, moooo mo Mooo'm moo moo mooo

back again; but in very poor plight. Thus, some minds for ever keep
mooo moooo; moo mo mooo mooo mooooo. Mooo, mooo moooo moo mooo mooo

trimming boat. Oh, ye foolish! throw all these thunder-heads overboard,
mooooooo mooo. Mo, mo moooooo! moooo moo moooo moooooo-moooo moooooooo,

and then you will float light and right.
moo mooo moo mooo moooo moooo moo moooo.




In disposing of the body of a right whale, when brought alongside the
Mo moooooooo mo moo mooo mo m moooo moooo, mooo moooooo moooooooo moo

ship, the same preliminary proceedings commonly take place as in the
mooo, moo mooo moooooooooo moooooooooo mooooooo mooo moooo mo mo moo

case of a sperm whale; only, in the latter instance, the head is cut off
mooo mo m moooo moooo; mooo, mo moo mooooo mooooooo, moo mooo mo moo moo

whole, but in the former the lips and tongue are separately removed and
moooo, moo mo moo mooooo moo mooo moo mooooo moo mooooooooo moooooo moo

hoisted on deck, with all the well known black bone attached to what is
moooooo mo mooo, mooo moo moo mooo moooo moooo mooo mooooooo mo mooo mo

called the crown-piece. But nothing like this, in the present case,
mooooo moo moooo-moooo. Moo moooooo mooo mooo, mo moo moooooo mooo,

had been done. The carcases of both whales had dropped astern; and
moo mooo mooo. Moo mooooooo mo mooo mooooo moo moooooo mooooo; moo

the head-laden ship not a little resembled a mule carrying a pair of
moo mooo-moooo mooo moo m mooooo moooooooo m mooo mooooooo m mooo mo

overburdening panniers.
moooooooooooo mooooooo.




Meantime, Fedallah was calmly eyeing the right whale's head, and ever
Mooooooo, Mooooooo moo mooooo mooooo moo moooo moooo'm mooo, moo mooo

and anon glancing from the deep wrinkles there to the lines in his own
moo mooo mooooooo mooo moo mooo mooooooo moooo mo moo moooo mo moo moo

hand. And Ahab chanced so to stand, that the Parsee occupied his shadow;
mooo. Moo Mooo moooooo mo mo moooo, mooo moo Mooooo mooooooo moo mooooo;

while, if the Parsee's shadow was there at all it seemed only to
moooo, mo moo Mooooo'm mooooo moo moooo mo moo mo mooooo mooo mo

blend with, and lengthen Ahab's. As the crew toiled on, Laplandish
moooo mooo, moo mooooooo Mooo'm. Mo moo mooo mooooo mo, Mooooooooo

speculations were bandied among them, concerning all these passing
mooooooooooo mooo moooooo moooo mooo, mooooooooo moo moooo moooooo

things.
mooooo.










CHAPTER 74. The Sperm Whale's Head--Contrasted View.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Moooo Moooo'm Mooo--Mooooooooo Mooo.







Here, now, are two great whales, laying their heads together; let us
Mooo, moo, moo moo moooo mooooo, mooooo moooo moooo mooooooo; moo mo

join them, and lay together our own.
mooo mooo, moo moo mooooooo moo moo.




Of the grand order of folio leviathans, the Sperm Whale and the Right
Mo moo moooo moooo mo moooo mooooooooo, moo Moooo Moooo moo moo Moooo

Whale are by far the most noteworthy. They are the only whales regularly
Moooo moo mo moo moo mooo mooooooooo. Mooo moo moo mooo mooooo moooooooo

hunted by man. To the Nantucketer, they present the two extremes of all
mooooo mo moo. Mo moo Moooooooooo, mooo moooooo moo moo mooooooo mo moo

the known varieties of the whale. As the external difference between
moo moooo moooooooo mo moo moooo. Mo moo mooooooo mooooooooo moooooo

them is mainly observable in their heads; and as a head of each is this
mooo mo mooooo mooooooooo mo moooo moooo; moo mo m mooo mo mooo mo mooo

moment hanging from the Pequod's side; and as we may freely go from one
mooooo moooooo mooo moo Mooooo'm mooo; moo mo mo moo mooooo mo mooo moo

to the other, by merely stepping across the deck:--where, I should like
mo moo moooo, mo mooooo mooooooo mooooo moo mooo:--moooo, M mooooo mooo

to know, will you obtain a better chance to study practical cetology
mo mooo, mooo moo mooooo m mooooo mooooo mo moooo moooooooo mooooooo

than here?
mooo mooo?




In the first place, you are struck by the general contrast between these
Mo moo moooo moooo, moo moo mooooo mo moo moooooo mooooooo moooooo moooo

heads. Both are massive enough in all conscience; but there is a certain
moooo. Mooo moo moooooo mooooo mo moo mooooooooo; moo moooo mo m moooooo

mathematical symmetry in the Sperm Whale's which the Right Whale's sadly
mooooooooooo mooooooo mo moo Moooo Moooo'm moooo moo Moooo Moooo'm moooo

lacks. There is more character in the Sperm Whale's head. As you behold
moooo. Moooo mo mooo moooooooo mo moo Moooo Moooo'm mooo. Mo moo mooooo

it, you involuntarily yield the immense superiority to him, in point
mo, moo moooooooooooo moooo moo moooooo moooooooooo mo moo, mo moooo

of pervading dignity. In the present instance, too, this dignity is
mo moooooooo moooooo. Mo moo moooooo mooooooo, moo, mooo moooooo mo

heightened by the pepper and salt colour of his head at the summit,
mooooooooo mo moo mooooo moo mooo mooooo mo moo mooo mo moo mooooo,

giving token of advanced age and large experience. In short, he is what
mooooo moooo mo mooooooo moo moo moooo mooooooooo. Mo moooo, mo mo mooo

the fishermen technically call a "grey-headed whale."
moo moooooooo moooooooooo mooo m "mooo-mooooo moooo."




Let us now note what is least dissimilar in these heads--namely, the two
Moo mo moo mooo mooo mo moooo mooooooooo mo moooo moooo--mooooo, moo moo

most important organs, the eye and the ear. Far back on the side of
mooo moooooooo mooooo, moo moo moo moo moo. Moo mooo mo moo mooo mo

the head, and low down, near the angle of either whale's jaw, if you
moo mooo, moo moo mooo, mooo moo moooo mo mooooo moooo'm moo, mo moo

narrowly search, you will at last see a lashless eye, which you would
mooooooo mooooo, moo mooo mo mooo moo m mooooooo moo, moooo moo moooo

fancy to be a young colt's eye; so out of all proportion is it to the
moooo mo mo m moooo mooo'm moo; mo moo mo moo mooooooooo mo mo mo moo

magnitude of the head.
moooooooo mo moo mooo.




Now, from this peculiar sideway position of the whale's eyes, it is
Moo, mooo mooo mooooooo moooooo mooooooo mo moo moooo'm mooo, mo mo

plain that he can never see an object which is exactly ahead, no more
moooo mooo mo moo moooo moo mo mooooo moooo mo moooooo moooo, mo mooo

than he can one exactly astern. In a word, the position of the whale's
mooo mo moo moo moooooo mooooo. Mo m mooo, moo mooooooo mo moo moooo'm

eyes corresponds to that of a man's ears; and you may fancy, for
mooo moooooooooo mo mooo mo m moo'm mooo; moo moo moo moooo, moo

yourself, how it would fare with you, did you sideways survey objects
mooooooo, moo mo moooo mooo mooo moo, moo moo mooooooo mooooo moooooo

through your ears. You would find that you could only command some
moooooo mooo mooo. Moo moooo mooo mooo moo moooo mooo moooooo mooo

thirty degrees of vision in advance of the straight side-line of sight;
mooooo moooooo mo mooooo mo moooooo mo moo mooooooo mooo-mooo mo moooo;

and about thirty more behind it. If your bitterest foe were walking
moo moooo mooooo mooo mooooo mo. Mo mooo moooooooo moo mooo moooooo

straight towards you, with dagger uplifted in broad day, you would not
mooooooo moooooo moo, mooo mooooo mooooooo mo moooo moo, moo moooo moo

be able to see him, any more than if he were stealing upon you from
mo mooo mo moo moo, moo mooo mooo mo mo mooo mooooooo mooo moo mooo

behind. In a word, you would have two backs, so to speak; but, at the
mooooo. Mo m mooo, moo moooo mooo moo moooo, mo mo moooo; moo, mo moo

same time, also, two fronts (side fronts): for what is it that makes the
mooo mooo, mooo, moo mooooo (mooo mooooo): moo mooo mo mo mooo moooo moo

front of a man--what, indeed, but his eyes?
moooo mo m moo--mooo, mooooo, moo moo mooo?




Moreover, while in most other animals that I can now think of, the eyes
Mooooooo, moooo mo mooo moooo moooooo mooo M moo moo moooo mo, moo mooo

are so planted as imperceptibly to blend their visual power, so as to
moo mo moooooo mo moooooooooooo mo moooo moooo mooooo moooo, mo mo mo

produce one picture and not two to the brain; the peculiar position of
moooooo moo moooooo moo moo moo mo moo moooo; moo mooooooo mooooooo mo

the whale's eyes, effectually divided as they are by many cubic feet of
moo moooo'm mooo, moooooooooo moooooo mo mooo moo mo mooo moooo mooo mo

solid head, which towers between them like a great mountain separating
moooo mooo, moooo mooooo moooooo mooo mooo m moooo mooooooo mooooooooo

two lakes in valleys; this, of course, must wholly separate the
moo moooo mo moooooo; mooo, mo mooooo, mooo mooooo mooooooo moo

impressions which each independent organ imparts. The whale, therefore,
moooooooooo moooo mooo moooooooooo moooo moooooo. Moo moooo, moooooooo,

must see one distinct picture on this side, and another distinct
mooo moo moo mooooooo moooooo mo mooo mooo, moo moooooo mooooooo

picture on that side; while all between must be profound darkness and
moooooo mo mooo mooo; moooo moo moooooo mooo mo mooooooo mooooooo moo

nothingness to him. Man may, in effect, be said to look out on the world
moooooooooo mo moo. Moo moo, mo mooooo, mo mooo mo mooo moo mo moo moooo

from a sentry-box with two joined sashes for his window. But with the
mooo m mooooo-moo mooo moo mooooo mooooo moo moo mooooo. Moo mooo moo

whale, these two sashes are separately inserted, making two distinct
moooo, moooo moo mooooo moo mooooooooo mooooooo, mooooo moo mooooooo

windows, but sadly impairing the view. This peculiarity of the whale's
moooooo, moo moooo moooooooo moo mooo. Mooo moooooooooo mo moo moooo'm

eyes is a thing always to be borne in mind in the fishery; and to be
mooo mo m moooo mooooo mo mo moooo mo mooo mo moo moooooo; moo mo mo

remembered by the reader in some subsequent scenes.
mooooooooo mo moo mooooo mo mooo mooooooooo mooooo.




A curious and most puzzling question might be started concerning this
M moooooo moo mooo mooooooo mooooooo moooo mo moooooo mooooooooo mooo

visual matter as touching the Leviathan. But I must be content with a
mooooo mooooo mo mooooooo moo Moooooooo. Moo M mooo mo moooooo mooo m

hint. So long as a man's eyes are open in the light, the act of seeing
mooo. Mo mooo mo m moo'm mooo moo mooo mo moo moooo, moo moo mo mooooo

is involuntary; that is, he cannot then help mechanically seeing
mo moooooooooo; mooo mo, mo mooooo mooo mooo mooooooooooo mooooo

whatever objects are before him. Nevertheless, any one's experience
mooooooo moooooo moo mooooo moo. Mooooooooooo, moo moo'm mooooooooo

will teach him, that though he can take in an undiscriminating sweep of
mooo moooo moo, mooo mooooo mo moo mooo mo mo mooooooooooooooo moooo mo

things at one glance, it is quite impossible for him, attentively,
mooooo mo moo mooooo, mo mo moooo mooooooooo moo moo, moooooooooo,

and completely, to examine any two things--however large or however
moo mooooooooo, mo moooooo moo moo mooooo--moooooo moooo mo moooooo

small--at one and the same instant of time; never mind if they lie side
moooo--mo moo moo moo mooo moooooo mo mooo; moooo mooo mo mooo moo mooo

by side and touch each other. But if you now come to separate these two
mo mooo moo moooo mooo moooo. Moo mo moo moo mooo mo mooooooo moooo moo

objects, and surround each by a circle of profound darkness; then, in
moooooo, moo mooooooo mooo mo m mooooo mo mooooooo mooooooo; mooo, mo

order to see one of them, in such a manner as to bring your mind to
moooo mo moo moo mo mooo, mo mooo m mooooo mo mo moooo mooo mooo mo

bear on it, the other will be utterly excluded from your contemporary
mooo mo mo, moo moooo mooo mo moooooo mooooooo mooo mooo mooooooooooo

consciousness. How is it, then, with the whale? True, both his eyes,
moooooooooooo. Moo mo mo, mooo, mooo moo moooo? Mooo, mooo moo mooo,

in themselves, must simultaneously act; but is his brain so much more
mo mooooooooo, mooo mooooooooooooo moo; moo mo moo moooo mo mooo mooo

comprehensive, combining, and subtle than man's, that he can at the same
moooooooooooo, moooooooo, moo mooooo mooo moo'm, mooo mo moo mo moo mooo

moment of time attentively examine two distinct prospects, one on one
mooooo mo mooo moooooooooo moooooo moo mooooooo moooooooo, moo mo moo

side of him, and the other in an exactly opposite direction? If he
mooo mo moo, moo moo moooo mo mo moooooo mooooooo moooooooo? Mo mo

can, then is it as marvellous a thing in him, as if a man were able
moo, mooo mo mo mo mooooooooo m moooo mo moo, mo mo m moo mooo mooo

simultaneously to go through the demonstrations of two distinct problems
mooooooooooooo mo mo moooooo moo mooooooooooooo mo moo mooooooo mooooooo

in Euclid. Nor, strictly investigated, is there any incongruity in this
mo Mooooo. Moo, mooooooo mooooooooooo, mo moooo moo moooooooooo mo mooo

comparison.
mooooooooo.




It may be but an idle whim, but it has always seemed to me, that the
Mo moo mo moo mo mooo mooo, moo mo moo mooooo mooooo mo mo, mooo moo

extraordinary vacillations of movement displayed by some whales when
moooooooooooo mooooooooooo mo mooooooo moooooooo mo mooo mooooo mooo

beset by three or four boats; the timidity and liability to queer
moooo mo moooo mo mooo moooo; moo mooooooo moo moooooooo mo moooo

frights, so common to such whales; I think that all this indirectly
moooooo, mo mooooo mo mooo mooooo; M moooo mooo moo mooo mooooooooo

proceeds from the helpless perplexity of volition, in which their
mooooooo mooo moo mooooooo mooooooooo mo mooooooo, mo moooo moooo

divided and diametrically opposite powers of vision must involve them.
moooooo moo moooooooooooo mooooooo mooooo mo mooooo mooo moooooo mooo.




But the ear of the whale is full as curious as the eye. If you are an
Moo moo moo mo moo moooo mo mooo mo moooooo mo moo moo. Mo moo moo mo

entire stranger to their race, you might hunt over these two heads
mooooo mooooooo mo moooo mooo, moo moooo mooo mooo moooo moo moooo

for hours, and never discover that organ. The ear has no external leaf
moo moooo, moo moooo mooooooo mooo moooo. Moo moo moo mo mooooooo mooo

whatever; and into the hole itself you can hardly insert a quill, so
mooooooo; moo mooo moo mooo mooooo moo moo mooooo mooooo m moooo, mo

wondrously minute is it. It is lodged a little behind the eye. With
mooooooooo mooooo mo mo. Mo mo mooooo m mooooo mooooo moo moo. Mooo

respect to their ears, this important difference is to be observed
moooooo mo moooo mooo, mooo moooooooo mooooooooo mo mo mo mooooooo

between the sperm whale and the right. While the ear of the former has
moooooo moo moooo moooo moo moo moooo. Moooo moo moo mo moo mooooo moo

an external opening, that of the latter is entirely and evenly covered
mo mooooooo moooooo, mooo mo moo mooooo mo mooooooo moo mooooo moooooo

over with a membrane, so as to be quite imperceptible from without.
mooo mooo m mooooooo, mo mo mo mo moooo moooooooooooo mooo moooooo.




Is it not curious, that so vast a being as the whale should see the
Mo mo moo moooooo, mooo mo mooo m moooo mo moo moooo mooooo moo moo

world through so small an eye, and hear the thunder through an ear which
moooo moooooo mo moooo mo moo, moo mooo moo moooooo moooooo mo moo moooo

is smaller than a hare's? But if his eyes were broad as the lens of
mo moooooo mooo m mooo'm? Moo mo moo mooo mooo moooo mo moo mooo mo

Herschel's great telescope; and his ears capacious as the porches of
Mooooooo'm moooo moooooooo; moo moo mooo moooooooo mo moo moooooo mo

cathedrals; would that make him any longer of sight, or sharper of
mooooooooo; moooo mooo mooo moo moo mooooo mo moooo, mo moooooo mo

hearing? Not at all.--Why then do you try to "enlarge" your mind?
moooooo? Moo mo moo.--Moo mooo mo moo moo mo "moooooo" mooo mooo?

Subtilize it.
Moooooooo mo.




Let us now with whatever levers and steam-engines we have at hand, cant
Moo mo moo mooo mooooooo mooooo moo moooo-moooooo mo mooo mo mooo, mooo

over the sperm whale's head, that it may lie bottom up; then, ascending
mooo moo moooo moooo'm mooo, mooo mo moo moo mooooo mo; mooo, moooooooo

by a ladder to the summit, have a peep down the mouth; and were it not
mo m mooooo mo moo mooooo, mooo m mooo mooo moo moooo; moo mooo mo moo

that the body is now completely separated from it, with a lantern we
mooo moo mooo mo moo mooooooooo moooooooo mooo mo, mooo m moooooo mo

might descend into the great Kentucky Mammoth Cave of his stomach. But
moooo moooooo mooo moo moooo Mooooooo Moooooo Mooo mo moo moooooo. Moo

let us hold on here by this tooth, and look about us where we are. What
moo mo mooo mo mooo mo mooo moooo, moo mooo moooo mo moooo mo moo. Mooo

a really beautiful and chaste-looking mouth! from floor to ceiling,
m mooooo moooooooo moo mooooo-moooooo moooo! mooo moooo mo moooooo,

lined, or rather papered with a glistening white membrane, glossy as
moooo, mo mooooo moooooo mooo m mooooooooo moooo mooooooo, mooooo mo

bridal satins.
mooooo mooooo.




But come out now, and look at this portentous lower jaw, which seems
Moo mooo moo moo, moo mooo mo mooo mooooooooo moooo moo, moooo moooo

like the long narrow lid of an immense snuff-box, with the hinge at one
mooo moo mooo mooooo moo mo mo moooooo moooo-moo, mooo moo moooo mo moo

end, instead of one side. If you pry it up, so as to get it overhead,
moo, moooooo mo moo mooo. Mo moo moo mo mo, mo mo mo moo mo mooooooo,

and expose its rows of teeth, it seems a terrific portcullis; and such,
moo mooooo moo mooo mo moooo, mo moooo m mooooooo mooooooooo; moo mooo,

alas! it proves to many a poor wight in the fishery, upon whom these
mooo! mo mooooo mo mooo m mooo moooo mo moo moooooo, mooo mooo moooo

spikes fall with impaling force. But far more terrible is it to behold,
mooooo mooo mooo mooooooo moooo. Moo moo mooo mooooooo mo mo mo mooooo,

when fathoms down in the sea, you see some sulky whale, floating there
mooo moooooo mooo mo moo moo, moo moo mooo moooo moooo, mooooooo moooo

suspended, with his prodigious jaw, some fifteen feet long, hanging
moooooooo, mooo moo mooooooooo moo, mooo moooooo mooo mooo, moooooo

straight down at right-angles with his body, for all the world like a
mooooooo mooo mo moooo-mooooo mooo moo mooo, moo moo moo moooo mooo m

ship's jib-boom. This whale is not dead; he is only dispirited; out of
mooo'm moo-mooo. Mooo moooo mo moo mooo; mo mo mooo mooooooooo; moo mo

sorts, perhaps; hypochondriac; and so supine, that the hinges of his
moooo, moooooo; moooooooooooo; moo mo mooooo, mooo moo mooooo mo moo

jaw have relaxed, leaving him there in that ungainly sort of plight, a
moo mooo moooooo, moooooo moo moooo mo mooo mooooooo mooo mo mooooo, m

reproach to all his tribe, who must, no doubt, imprecate lock-jaws upon
mooooooo mo moo moo moooo, moo mooo, mo moooo, moooooooo mooo-mooo mooo

him.
moo.




In most cases this lower jaw--being easily unhinged by a practised
Mo mooo moooo mooo moooo moo--moooo mooooo mooooooo mo m moooooooo

artist--is disengaged and hoisted on deck for the purpose of extracting
mooooo--mo mooooooooo moo moooooo mo mooo moo moo moooooo mo mooooooooo

the ivory teeth, and furnishing a supply of that hard white whalebone
moo moooo moooo, moo mooooooooo m mooooo mo mooo mooo moooo moooooooo

with which the fishermen fashion all sorts of curious articles,
mooo moooo moo moooooooo moooooo moo moooo mo moooooo mooooooo,

including canes, umbrella-stocks, and handles to riding-whips.
moooooooo moooo, mooooooo-mooooo, moo moooooo mo mooooo-moooo.




With a long, weary hoist the jaw is dragged on board, as if it were an
Mooo m mooo, moooo moooo moo moo mo moooooo mo moooo, mo mo mo mooo mo

anchor; and when the proper time comes--some few days after the other
mooooo; moo mooo moo mooooo mooo moooo--mooo moo mooo moooo moo moooo

work--Queequeg, Daggoo, and Tashtego, being all accomplished dentists,
mooo--Mooooooo, Mooooo, moo Mooooooo, moooo moo mooooooooooo mooooooo,

are set to drawing teeth. With a keen cutting-spade, Queequeg lances
moo moo mo moooooo moooo. Mooo m mooo moooooo-moooo, Mooooooo mooooo

the gums; then the jaw is lashed down to ringbolts, and a tackle being
moo mooo; mooo moo moo mo mooooo mooo mo moooooooo, moo m mooooo moooo

rigged from aloft, they drag out these teeth, as Michigan oxen drag
mooooo mooo moooo, mooo mooo moo moooo moooo, mo Mooooooo mooo mooo

stumps of old oaks out of wild wood lands. There are generally forty-two
mooooo mo moo mooo moo mo mooo mooo moooo. Moooo moo moooooooo moooo-moo

teeth in all; in old whales, much worn down, but undecayed; nor filled
moooo mo moo; mo moo mooooo, mooo mooo mooo, moo moooooooo; moo mooooo

after our artificial fashion. The jaw is afterwards sawn into slabs, and
moooo moo mooooooooo moooooo. Moo moo mo mooooooooo mooo mooo moooo, moo

piled away like joists for building houses.
moooo mooo mooo mooooo moo mooooooo mooooo.










CHAPTER 75. The Right Whale's Head--Contrasted View.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Moooo Moooo'm Mooo--Mooooooooo Mooo.







Crossing the deck, let us now have a good long look at the Right Whale's
Mooooooo moo mooo, moo mo moo mooo m mooo mooo mooo mo moo Moooo Moooo'm

head.
mooo.




As in general shape the noble Sperm Whale's head may be compared to a
Mo mo moooooo moooo moo moooo Moooo Moooo'm mooo moo mo mooooooo mo m

Roman war-chariot (especially in front, where it is so broadly rounded);
Moooo moo-moooooo (mooooooooo mo moooo, moooo mo mo mo moooooo moooooo);

so, at a broad view, the Right Whale's head bears a rather inelegant
mo, mo m moooo mooo, moo Moooo Moooo'm mooo moooo m mooooo moooooooo

resemblance to a gigantic galliot-toed shoe. Two hundred years ago an
moooooooooo mo m mooooooo moooooo-mooo mooo. Moo moooooo moooo moo mo

old Dutch voyager likened its shape to that of a shoemaker's last. And
moo Moooo moooooo moooooo moo moooo mo mooo mo m moooooooo'm mooo. Moo

in this same last or shoe, that old woman of the nursery tale, with
mo mooo mooo mooo mo mooo, mooo moo moooo mo moo moooooo mooo, mooo

the swarming brood, might very comfortably be lodged, she and all her
moo mooooooo moooo, moooo mooo moooooooooo mo mooooo, moo moo moo moo

progeny.
moooooo.




But as you come nearer to this great head it begins to assume different
Moo mo moo mooo mooooo mo mooo moooo mooo mo mooooo mo mooooo moooooooo

aspects, according to your point of view. If you stand on its summit and
moooooo, moooooooo mo mooo moooo mo mooo. Mo moo moooo mo moo mooooo moo

look at these two F-shaped spoutholes, you would take the whole head
mooo mo moooo moo M-mooooo mooooooooo, moo moooo mooo moo moooo mooo

for an enormous bass-viol, and these spiracles, the apertures in its
moo mo mooooooo mooo-mooo, moo moooo moooooooo, moo moooooooo mo moo

sounding-board. Then, again, if you fix your eye upon this strange,
mooooooo-moooo. Mooo, moooo, mo moo moo mooo moo mooo mooo moooooo,

crested, comb-like incrustation on the top of the mass--this green,
moooooo, mooo-mooo mooooooooooo mo moo moo mo moo mooo--mooo moooo,

barnacled thing, which the Greenlanders call the "crown," and the
moooooooo moooo, moooo moo Mooooooooooo mooo moo "moooo," moo moo

Southern fishers the "bonnet" of the Right Whale; fixing your eyes
Mooooooo moooooo moo "mooooo" mo moo Moooo Moooo; mooooo mooo mooo

solely on this, you would take the head for the trunk of some huge oak,
mooooo mo mooo, moo moooo mooo moo mooo moo moo moooo mo mooo mooo moo,

with a bird's nest in its crotch. At any rate, when you watch those live
mooo m mooo'm mooo mo moo mooooo. Mo moo mooo, mooo moo moooo moooo mooo

crabs that nestle here on this bonnet, such an idea will be almost
moooo mooo mooooo mooo mo mooo mooooo, mooo mo mooo mooo mo mooooo

sure to occur to you; unless, indeed, your fancy has been fixed by the
mooo mo moooo mo moo; mooooo, mooooo, mooo moooo moo mooo moooo mo moo

technical term "crown" also bestowed upon it; in which case you will
moooooooo mooo "moooo" mooo mooooooo mooo mo; mo moooo mooo moo mooo

take great interest in thinking how this mighty monster is actually a
mooo moooo mooooooo mo mooooooo moo mooo mooooo moooooo mo mooooooo m

diademed king of the sea, whose green crown has been put together for
mooooooo mooo mo moo moo, moooo moooo moooo moo mooo moo mooooooo moo

him in this marvellous manner. But if this whale be a king, he is a very
moo mo mooo mooooooooo mooooo. Moo mo mooo moooo mo m mooo, mo mo m mooo

sulky looking fellow to grace a diadem. Look at that hanging lower lip!
moooo moooooo mooooo mo moooo m mooooo. Mooo mo mooo moooooo moooo moo!

what a huge sulk and pout is there! a sulk and pout, by carpenter's
mooo m mooo mooo moo mooo mo moooo! m mooo moo mooo, mo moooooooo'm

measurement, about twenty feet long and five feet deep; a sulk and pout
moooooooooo, moooo mooooo mooo mooo moo mooo mooo mooo; m mooo moo mooo

that will yield you some 500 gallons of oil and more.
mooo mooo moooo moo mooo moo moooooo mo moo moo mooo.




A great pity, now, that this unfortunate whale should be hare-lipped.
M moooo mooo, moo, mooo mooo moooooooooo moooo mooooo mo mooo-mooooo.

The fissure is about a foot across. Probably the mother during an
Moo moooooo mo moooo m mooo mooooo. Mooooooo moo mooooo mooooo mo

important interval was sailing down the Peruvian coast, when earthquakes
moooooooo mooooooo moo moooooo mooo moo Mooooooo moooo, mooo moooooooooo

caused the beach to gape. Over this lip, as over a slippery threshold,
mooooo moo moooo mo mooo. Mooo mooo moo, mo mooo m mooooooo moooooooo,

we now slide into the mouth. Upon my word were I at Mackinaw, I should
mo moo moooo mooo moo moooo. Mooo mo mooo mooo M mo Mooooooo, M mooooo

take this to be the inside of an Indian wigwam. Good Lord! is this the
mooo mooo mo mo moo mooooo mo mo Mooooo mooooo. Mooo Mooo! mo mooo moo

road that Jonah went? The roof is about twelve feet high, and runs to a
mooo mooo Moooo mooo? Moo mooo mo moooo mooooo mooo mooo, moo mooo mo m

pretty sharp angle, as if there were a regular ridge-pole there; while
mooooo moooo moooo, mo mo moooo mooo m moooooo moooo-mooo moooo; moooo

these ribbed, arched, hairy sides, present us with those wondrous, half
moooo mooooo, mooooo, moooo moooo, moooooo mo mooo moooo mooooooo, mooo

vertical, scimetar-shaped slats of whalebone, say three hundred on a
mooooooo, mooooooo-mooooo moooo mo moooooooo, moo moooo moooooo mo m

side, which depending from the upper part of the head or crown
mooo, moooo moooooooo mooo moo moooo mooo mo moo mooo mo moooo

bone, form those Venetian blinds which have elsewhere been cursorily
mooo, mooo moooo Mooooooo mooooo moooo mooo moooooooo mooo moooooooo

mentioned. The edges of these bones are fringed with hairy fibres,
moooooooo. Moo moooo mo moooo moooo moo moooooo mooo moooo mooooo,

through which the Right Whale strains the water, and in whose
moooooo moooo moo Moooo Moooo moooooo moo moooo, moo mo moooo

intricacies he retains the small fish, when openmouthed he goes through
moooooooooo mo moooooo moo moooo mooo, mooo moooooooooo mo mooo moooooo

the seas of brit in feeding time. In the central blinds of bone, as they
moo mooo mo mooo mo moooooo mooo. Mo moo moooooo mooooo mo mooo, mo mooo

stand in their natural order, there are certain curious marks, curves,
moooo mo moooo moooooo moooo, moooo moo moooooo moooooo moooo, mooooo,

hollows, and ridges, whereby some whalemen calculate the creature's age,
moooooo, moo mooooo, moooooo mooo mooooooo moooooooo moo mooooooo'm moo,

as the age of an oak by its circular rings. Though the certainty of this
mo moo moo mo mo moo mo moo mooooooo moooo. Mooooo moo moooooooo mo mooo

criterion is far from demonstrable, yet it has the savor of analogical
moooooooo mo moo mooo mooooooooooo, moo mo moo moo moooo mo mooooooooo

probability. At any rate, if we yield to it, we must grant a far greater
moooooooooo. Mo moo mooo, mo mo moooo mo mo, mo mooo moooo m moo moooooo

age to the Right Whale than at first glance will seem reasonable.
moo mo moo Moooo Moooo mooo mo moooo mooooo mooo mooo mooooooooo.




In old times, there seem to have prevailed the most curious fancies
Mo moo moooo, moooo mooo mo mooo moooooooo moo mooo moooooo moooooo

concerning these blinds. One voyager in Purchas calls them the wondrous
mooooooooo moooo mooooo. Moo moooooo mo Moooooo moooo mooo moo mooooooo

"whiskers" inside of the whale's mouth;* another, "hogs' bristles"; a
"mooooooo" mooooo mo moo moooo'm moooo;* moooooo, "mooo' mooooooo"; m

third old gentleman in Hackluyt uses the following elegant language:
moooo moo moooooooo mo Mooooooo mooo moo moooooooo moooooo mooooooo:

"There are about two hundred and fifty fins growing on each side of his
"Moooo moo moooo moo moooooo moo moooo mooo moooooo mo mooo mooo mo moo

upper CHOP, which arch over his tongue on each side of his mouth."
moooo MOOO, moooo mooo mooo moo mooooo mo mooo mooo mo moo moooo."







*This reminds us that the Right Whale really has a sort of whisker, or
*Mooo moooooo mo mooo moo Moooo Moooo mooooo moo m mooo mo moooooo, mo

rather a moustache, consisting of a few scattered white hairs on the
mooooo m moooooooo, mooooooooo mo m moo moooooooo moooo moooo mo moo

upper part of the outer end of the lower jaw. Sometimes these
moooo mooo mo moo moooo moo mo moo moooo moo. Moooooooo moooo

tufts impart a rather brigandish expression to his otherwise solemn
moooo mooooo m mooooo mooooooooo mooooooooo mo moo moooooooo mooooo

countenance.
moooooooooo.







As every one knows, these same "hogs' bristles," "fins," "whiskers,"
Mo moooo moo moooo, moooo mooo "mooo' mooooooo," "mooo," "mooooooo,"

"blinds," or whatever you please, furnish to the ladies their busks and
"mooooo," mo mooooooo moo mooooo, moooooo mo moo mooooo moooo moooo moo

other stiffening contrivances. But in this particular, the demand has
moooo mooooooooo mooooooooooo. Moo mo mooo mooooooooo, moo mooooo moo

long been on the decline. It was in Queen Anne's time that the bone was
mooo mooo mo moo moooooo. Mo moo mo Moooo Mooo'm mooo mooo moo mooo moo

in its glory, the farthingale being then all the fashion. And as those
mo moo moooo, moo moooooooooo moooo mooo moo moo moooooo. Moo mo moooo

ancient dames moved about gaily, though in the jaws of the whale, as
moooooo moooo moooo moooo moooo, mooooo mo moo mooo mo moo moooo, mo

you may say; even so, in a shower, with the like thoughtlessness, do we
moo moo moo; mooo mo, mo m mooooo, mooo moo mooo moooooooooooooo, mo mo

nowadays fly under the same jaws for protection; the umbrella being a
mooooooo moo moooo moo mooo mooo moo mooooooooo; moo mooooooo moooo m

tent spread over the same bone.
mooo mooooo mooo moo mooo mooo.




But now forget all about blinds and whiskers for a moment, and, standing
Moo moo mooooo moo moooo mooooo moo mooooooo moo m mooooo, moo, mooooooo

in the Right Whale's mouth, look around you afresh. Seeing all these
mo moo Moooo Moooo'm moooo, mooo mooooo moo mooooo. Mooooo moo moooo

colonnades of bone so methodically ranged about, would you not think
mooooooooo mo mooo mo mooooooooooo mooooo moooo, moooo moo moo moooo

you were inside of the great Haarlem organ, and gazing upon its
moo mooo mooooo mo moo moooo Moooooo moooo, moo mooooo mooo moo

thousand pipes? For a carpet to the organ we have a rug of the softest
mooooooo moooo? Moo m mooooo mo moo moooo mo mooo m moo mo moo moooooo

Turkey--the tongue, which is glued, as it were, to the floor of the
Mooooo--moo mooooo, moooo mo moooo, mo mo mooo, mo moo moooo mo moo

mouth. It is very fat and tender, and apt to tear in pieces in hoisting
moooo. Mo mo mooo moo moo mooooo, moo moo mo mooo mo mooooo mo mooooooo

it on deck. This particular tongue now before us; at a passing glance I
mo mo mooo. Mooo mooooooooo mooooo moo mooooo mo; mo m moooooo mooooo M

should say it was a six-barreler; that is, it will yield you about that
mooooo moo mo moo m moo-mooooooo; mooo mo, mo mooo moooo moo moooo mooo

amount of oil.
mooooo mo moo.




Ere this, you must have plainly seen the truth of what I started
Moo mooo, moo mooo mooo moooooo mooo moo moooo mo mooo M moooooo

with--that the Sperm Whale and the Right Whale have almost entirely
mooo--mooo moo Moooo Moooo moo moo Moooo Moooo mooo mooooo mooooooo

different heads. To sum up, then: in the Right Whale's there is no great
moooooooo moooo. Mo moo mo, mooo: mo moo Moooo Moooo'm moooo mo mo moooo

well of sperm; no ivory teeth at all; no long, slender mandible of a
mooo mo moooo; mo moooo moooo mo moo; mo mooo, moooooo mooooooo mo m

lower jaw, like the Sperm Whale's. Nor in the Sperm Whale are there any
moooo moo, mooo moo Moooo Moooo'm. Moo mo moo Moooo Moooo moo moooo moo

of those blinds of bone; no huge lower lip; and scarcely anything of a
mo moooo mooooo mo mooo; mo mooo moooo moo; moo mooooooo mooooooo mo m

tongue. Again, the Right Whale has two external spout-holes, the Sperm
mooooo. Moooo, moo Moooo Moooo moo moo mooooooo moooo-moooo, moo Moooo

Whale only one.
Moooo mooo moo.




Look your last, now, on these venerable hooded heads, while they yet lie
Mooo mooo mooo, moo, mo moooo moooooooo mooooo moooo, moooo mooo moo moo

together; for one will soon sink, unrecorded, in the sea; the other will
mooooooo; moo moo mooo mooo mooo, mooooooooo, mo moo moo; moo moooo mooo

not be very long in following.
moo mo mooo mooo mo moooooooo.




Can you catch the expression of the Sperm Whale's there? It is the same
Moo moo moooo moo mooooooooo mo moo Moooo Moooo'm moooo? Mo mo moo mooo

he died with, only some of the longer wrinkles in the forehead seem
mo mooo mooo, mooo mooo mo moo mooooo mooooooo mo moo mooooooo mooo

now faded away. I think his broad brow to be full of a prairie-like
moo moooo mooo. M moooo moo moooo mooo mo mo mooo mo m moooooo-mooo

placidity, born of a speculative indifference as to death. But mark the
moooooooo, mooo mo m moooooooooo mooooooooooo mo mo moooo. Moo mooo moo

other head's expression. See that amazing lower lip, pressed by accident
moooo mooo'm mooooooooo. Moo mooo moooooo moooo moo, moooooo mo mooooooo

against the vessel's side, so as firmly to embrace the jaw. Does not
moooooo moo mooooo'm mooo, mo mo mooooo mo moooooo moo moo. Mooo moo

this whole head seem to speak of an enormous practical resolution in
mooo moooo mooo mooo mo moooo mo mo mooooooo moooooooo mooooooooo mo

facing death? This Right Whale I take to have been a Stoic; the Sperm
mooooo moooo? Mooo Moooo Moooo M mooo mo mooo mooo m Moooo; moo Moooo

Whale, a Platonian, who might have taken up Spinoza in his latter years.
Moooo, m Moooooooo, moo moooo mooo moooo mo Moooooo mo moo mooooo moooo.










CHAPTER 76. The Battering-Ram.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Moooooooo-Moo.







Ere quitting, for the nonce, the Sperm Whale's head, I would have
Moo mooooooo, moo moo moooo, moo Moooo Moooo'm mooo, M moooo mooo

you, as a sensible physiologist, simply--particularly remark its front
moo, mo m mooooooo mooooooooooo, mooooo--mooooooooooo mooooo moo moooo

aspect, in all its compacted collectedness. I would have you investigate
mooooo, mo moo moo moooooooo moooooooooooo. M moooo mooo moo moooooooooo

it now with the sole view of forming to yourself some unexaggerated,
mo moo mooo moo mooo mooo mo moooooo mo mooooooo mooo moooooooooooo,

intelligent estimate of whatever battering-ram power may be lodged
moooooooooo mooooooo mo mooooooo moooooooo-moo moooo moo mo mooooo

there. Here is a vital point; for you must either satisfactorily settle
moooo. Mooo mo m moooo moooo; moo moo mooo mooooo mooooooooooooo mooooo

this matter with yourself, or for ever remain an infidel as to one of
mooo mooooo mooo mooooooo, mo moo mooo mooooo mo moooooo mo mo moo mo

the most appalling, but not the less true events, perhaps anywhere to be
moo mooo moooooooo, moo moo moo mooo mooo mooooo, moooooo mooooooo mo mo

found in all recorded history.
moooo mo moo mooooooo moooooo.




You observe that in the ordinary swimming position of the Sperm Whale,
Moo moooooo mooo mo moo mooooooo mooooooo mooooooo mo moo Moooo Moooo,

the front of his head presents an almost wholly vertical plane to the
moo moooo mo moo mooo mooooooo mo mooooo mooooo mooooooo moooo mo moo

water; you observe that the lower part of that front slopes considerably
moooo; moo moooooo mooo moo moooo mooo mo mooo moooo mooooo mooooooooooo

backwards, so as to furnish more of a retreat for the long socket which
moooooooo, mo mo mo moooooo mooo mo m moooooo moo moo mooo mooooo moooo

receives the boom-like lower jaw; you observe that the mouth is entirely
mooooooo moo mooo-mooo moooo moo; moo moooooo mooo moo moooo mo mooooooo

under the head, much in the same way, indeed, as though your own mouth
moooo moo mooo, mooo mo moo mooo moo, mooooo, mo mooooo mooo moo moooo

were entirely under your chin. Moreover you observe that the whale has
mooo mooooooo moooo mooo mooo. Mooooooo moo moooooo mooo moo moooo moo

no external nose; and that what nose he has--his spout hole--is on the
mo mooooooo mooo; moo mooo mooo mooo mo moo--moo moooo mooo--mo mo moo

top of his head; you observe that his eyes and ears are at the sides
moo mo moo mooo; moo moooooo mooo moo mooo moo mooo moo mo moo moooo

of his head, nearly one third of his entire length from the front.
mo moo mooo, mooooo moo moooo mo moo mooooo mooooo mooo moo moooo.

Wherefore, you must now have perceived that the front of the Sperm
Moooooooo, moo mooo moo mooo moooooooo mooo moo moooo mo moo Moooo

Whale's head is a dead, blind wall, without a single organ or tender
Moooo'm mooo mo m mooo, moooo mooo, moooooo m mooooo moooo mo mooooo

prominence of any sort whatsoever. Furthermore, you are now to consider
mooooooooo mo moo mooo mooooooooo. Moooooooooo, moo moo moo mo mooooooo

that only in the extreme, lower, backward sloping part of the front of
mooo mooo mo moo moooooo, moooo, mooooooo moooooo mooo mo moo moooo mo

the head, is there the slightest vestige of bone; and not till you
moo mooo, mo moooo moo moooooooo moooooo mo mooo; moo moo mooo moo

get near twenty feet from the forehead do you come to the full cranial
moo mooo mooooo mooo mooo moo mooooooo mo moo mooo mo moo mooo moooooo

development. So that this whole enormous boneless mass is as one wad.
moooooooooo. Mo mooo mooo moooo mooooooo mooooooo mooo mo mo moo moo.

Finally, though, as will soon be revealed, its contents partly comprise
Moooooo, mooooo, mo mooo mooo mo mooooooo, moo mooooooo mooooo mooooooo

the most delicate oil; yet, you are now to be apprised of the nature of
moo mooo mooooooo moo; moo, moo moo moo mo mo mooooooo mo moo mooooo mo

the substance which so impregnably invests all that apparent effeminacy.
moo moooooooo moooo mo moooooooooo moooooo moo mooo mooooooo mooooooooo.

In some previous place I have described to you how the blubber wraps the
Mo mooo mooooooo moooo M mooo moooooooo mo moo moo moo moooooo moooo moo

body of the whale, as the rind wraps an orange. Just so with the head;
mooo mo moo moooo, mo moo mooo moooo mo mooooo. Mooo mo mooo moo mooo;

but with this difference: about the head this envelope, though not so
moo mooo mooo mooooooooo: moooo moo mooo mooo mooooooo, mooooo moo mo

thick, is of a boneless toughness, inestimable by any man who has not
moooo, mo mo m mooooooo moooooooo, moooooooooo mo moo moo moo moo moo

handled it. The severest pointed harpoon, the sharpest lance darted by
moooooo mo. Moo mooooooo moooooo moooooo, moo mooooooo moooo mooooo mo

the strongest human arm, impotently rebounds from it. It is as though
moo moooooooo moooo moo, mooooooooo mooooooo mooo mo. Mo mo mo mooooo

the forehead of the Sperm Whale were paved with horses' hoofs. I do not
moo mooooooo mo moo Moooo Moooo mooo moooo mooo mooooo' moooo. M mo moo

think that any sensation lurks in it.
moooo mooo moo moooooooo moooo mo mo.




Bethink yourself also of another thing. When two large, loaded Indiamen
Moooooo mooooooo mooo mo moooooo moooo. Mooo moo moooo, mooooo Mooooooo

chance to crowd and crush towards each other in the docks, what do the
mooooo mo moooo moo moooo moooooo mooo moooo mo moo moooo, mooo mo moo

sailors do? They do not suspend between them, at the point of coming
moooooo mo? Mooo mo moo moooooo moooooo mooo, mo moo moooo mo mooooo

contact, any merely hard substance, like iron or wood. No, they hold
moooooo, moo mooooo mooo moooooooo, mooo mooo mo mooo. Mo, mooo mooo

there a large, round wad of tow and cork, enveloped in the thickest
moooo m moooo, moooo moo mo moo moo mooo, moooooooo mo moo mooooooo

and toughest of ox-hide. That bravely and uninjured takes the jam which
moo mooooooo mo mo-mooo. Mooo moooooo moo moooooooo moooo moo moo moooo

would have snapped all their oaken handspikes and iron crow-bars. By
moooo mooo moooooo moo moooo moooo mooooooooo moo mooo mooo-mooo. Mo

itself this sufficiently illustrates the obvious fact I drive at. But
mooooo mooo mooooooooooo moooooooooo moo moooooo mooo M moooo mo. Moo

supplementary to this, it has hypothetically occurred to me, that
moooooooooooo mo mooo, mo moo mooooooooooooo mooooooo mo mo, mooo

as ordinary fish possess what is called a swimming bladder in them,
mo mooooooo mooo moooooo mooo mo mooooo m mooooooo moooooo mo mooo,

capable, at will, of distension or contraction; and as the Sperm Whale,
moooooo, mo mooo, mo mooooooooo mo moooooooooo; moo mo moo Moooo Moooo,

as far as I know, has no such provision in him; considering, too,
mo moo mo M mooo, moo mo mooo moooooooo mo moo; moooooooooo, moo,

the otherwise inexplicable manner in which he now depresses his head
moo moooooooo mooooooooooo mooooo mo moooo mo moo moooooooo moo mooo

altogether beneath the surface, and anon swims with it high elevated out
mooooooooo moooooo moo moooooo, moo mooo moooo mooo mo mooo mooooooo moo

of the water; considering the unobstructed elasticity of its envelope;
mo moo moooo; moooooooooo moo mooooooooooo mooooooooo mo moo mooooooo;

considering the unique interior of his head; it has hypothetically
moooooooooo moo mooooo mooooooo mo moo mooo; mo moo mooooooooooooo

occurred to me, I say, that those mystical lung-celled honeycombs there
mooooooo mo mo, M moo, mooo moooo mooooooo mooo-mooooo mooooooooo moooo

may possibly have some hitherto unknown and unsuspected connexion with
moo mooooooo mooo mooo mooooooo moooooo moo moooooooooo moooooooo mooo

the outer air, so as to be susceptible to atmospheric distension and
moo moooo moo, mo mo mo mo moooooooooo mo moooooooooo mooooooooo moo

contraction. If this be so, fancy the irresistibleness of that might, to
moooooooooo. Mo mooo mo mo, moooo moo mooooooooooooooo mo mooo moooo, mo

which the most impalpable and destructive of all elements contributes.
moooo moo mooo mooooooooo moo moooooooooo mo moo mooooooo moooooooooo.




Now, mark. Unerringly impelling this dead, impregnable, uninjurable
Moo, mooo. Mooooooooo moooooooo mooo mooo, moooooooooo, moooooooooo

wall, and this most buoyant thing within; there swims behind it all a
mooo, moo mooo mooo moooooo moooo mooooo; moooo moooo mooooo mo moo m

mass of tremendous life, only to be adequately estimated as piled wood
mooo mo mooooooooo mooo, mooo mo mo mooooooooo moooooooo mo moooo mooo

is--by the cord; and all obedient to one volition, as the smallest
mo--mo moo mooo; moo moo mooooooo mo moo mooooooo, mo moo mooooooo

insect. So that when I shall hereafter detail to you all the
mooooo. Mo mooo mooo M moooo moooooooo mooooo mo moo moo moo

specialities and concentrations of potency everywhere lurking in this
mooooooooooo moo mooooooooooooo mo moooooo mooooooooo moooooo mo mooo

expansive monster; when I shall show you some of his more inconsiderable
moooooooo moooooo; mooo M moooo mooo moo mooo mo moo mooo mooooooooooooo

braining feats; I trust you will have renounced all ignorant
mooooooo moooo; M moooo moo mooo mooo moooooooo moo mooooooo

incredulity, and be ready to abide by this; that though the Sperm Whale
moooooooooo, moo mo moooo mo moooo mo mooo; mooo mooooo moo Moooo Moooo

stove a passage through the Isthmus of Darien, and mixed the Atlantic
moooo m moooooo moooooo moo Moooooo mo Mooooo, moo moooo moo Mooooooo

with the Pacific, you would not elevate one hair of your eye-brow. For
mooo moo Moooooo, moo moooo moo moooooo moo mooo mo mooo moo-mooo. Moo

unless you own the whale, you are but a provincial and sentimentalist
mooooo moo moo moo moooo, moo moo moo m mooooooooo moo mooooooooooooo

in Truth. But clear Truth is a thing for salamander giants only to
mo Moooo. Moo moooo Moooo mo m moooo moo mooooooooo mooooo mooo mo

encounter; how small the chances for the provincials then? What befell
moooooooo; moo moooo moo moooooo moo moo moooooooooo mooo? Mooo mooooo

the weakling youth lifting the dread goddess's veil at Lais?
moo mooooooo moooo moooooo moo moooo moooooo'm mooo mo Mooo?










CHAPTER 77. The Great Heidelburgh Tun.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Moooo Moooooooooo Moo.







Now comes the Baling of the Case. But to comprehend it aright, you must
Moo moooo moo Mooooo mo moo Mooo. Moo mo mooooooooo mo mooooo, moo mooo

know something of the curious internal structure of the thing operated
mooo moooooooo mo moo moooooo mooooooo moooooooo mo moo moooo mooooooo

upon.
mooo.




Regarding the Sperm Whale's head as a solid oblong, you may, on an
Moooooooo moo Moooo Moooo'm mooo mo m moooo mooooo, moo moo, mo mo

inclined plane, sideways divide it into two quoins,* whereof the lower
mooooooo moooo, mooooooo mooooo mo mooo moo mooooo,* moooooo moo moooo

is the bony structure, forming the cranium and jaws, and the upper an
mo moo mooo moooooooo, moooooo moo moooooo moo mooo, moo moo moooo mo

unctuous mass wholly free from bones; its broad forward end forming the
mooooooo mooo mooooo mooo mooo moooo; moo moooo moooooo moo moooooo moo

expanded vertical apparent forehead of the whale. At the middle of the
mooooooo mooooooo mooooooo mooooooo mo moo moooo. Mo moo mooooo mo moo

forehead horizontally subdivide this upper quoin, and then you have two
mooooooo mooooooooooo moooooooo mooo moooo moooo, moo mooo moo mooo moo

almost equal parts, which before were naturally divided by an internal
mooooo moooo moooo, moooo mooooo mooo moooooooo moooooo mo mo mooooooo

wall of a thick tendinous substance.
mooo mo m moooo moooooooo moooooooo.







*Quoin is not a Euclidean term. It belongs to the pure nautical
*Moooo mo moo m Moooooooo mooo. Mo moooooo mo moo mooo mooooooo

mathematics. I know not that it has been defined before. A quoin is a
moooooooooo. M mooo moo mooo mo moo mooo moooooo mooooo. M moooo mo m

solid which differs from a wedge in having its sharp end formed by the
moooo moooo moooooo mooo m moooo mo mooooo moo moooo moo mooooo mo moo

steep inclination of one side, instead of the mutual tapering of both
moooo moooooooooo mo moo mooo, moooooo mo moo mooooo mooooooo mo mooo

sides.
moooo.







The lower subdivided part, called the junk, is one immense honeycomb
Moo moooo mooooooooo mooo, mooooo moo mooo, mo moo moooooo moooooooo

of oil, formed by the crossing and recrossing, into ten thousand
mo moo, mooooo mo moo mooooooo moo mooooooooo, mooo moo mooooooo

infiltrated cells, of tough elastic white fibres throughout its whole
moooooooooo moooo, mo moooo moooooo moooo mooooo mooooooooo moo moooo

extent. The upper part, known as the Case, may be regarded as the great
mooooo. Moo moooo mooo, moooo mo moo Mooo, moo mo mooooooo mo moo moooo

Heidelburgh Tun of the Sperm Whale. And as that famous great tierce is
Moooooooooo Moo mo moo Moooo Moooo. Moo mo mooo mooooo moooo mooooo mo

mystically carved in front, so the whale's vast plaited forehead forms
mooooooooo mooooo mo moooo, mo moo moooo'm mooo moooooo mooooooo moooo

innumerable strange devices for the emblematical adornment of his
moooooooooo moooooo moooooo moo moo mooooooooooo moooooooo mo moo

wondrous tun. Moreover, as that of Heidelburgh was always replenished
mooooooo moo. Mooooooo, mo mooo mo Moooooooooo moo mooooo moooooooooo

with the most excellent of the wines of the Rhenish valleys, so the tun
mooo moo mooo moooooooo mo moo moooo mo moo Moooooo moooooo, mo moo moo

of the whale contains by far the most precious of all his oily vintages;
mo moo moooo mooooooo mo moo moo mooo mooooooo mo moo moo mooo mooooooo;

namely, the highly-prized spermaceti, in its absolutely pure, limpid,
mooooo, moo mooooo-mooooo mooooooooo, mo moo mooooooooo mooo, mooooo,

and odoriferous state. Nor is this precious substance found unalloyed
moo moooooooooo moooo. Moo mo mooo mooooooo moooooooo moooo moooooooo

in any other part of the creature. Though in life it remains perfectly
mo moo moooo mooo mo moo mooooooo. Mooooo mo mooo mo moooooo moooooooo

fluid, yet, upon exposure to the air, after death, it soon begins to
moooo, moo, mooo mooooooo mo moo moo, moooo moooo, mo mooo mooooo mo

concrete; sending forth beautiful crystalline shoots, as when the
mooooooo; moooooo moooo moooooooo moooooooooo mooooo, mo mooo moo

first thin delicate ice is just forming in water. A large whale's
moooo mooo mooooooo moo mo mooo moooooo mo moooo. M moooo moooo'm

case generally yields about five hundred gallons of sperm, though from
mooo moooooooo mooooo moooo mooo moooooo moooooo mo moooo, mooooo mooo

unavoidable circumstances, considerable of it is spilled, leaks, and
moooooooooo moooooooooooo, mooooooooooo mo mo mo moooooo, moooo, moo

dribbles away, or is otherwise irrevocably lost in the ticklish business
mooooooo mooo, mo mo moooooooo moooooooooo mooo mo moo mooooooo mooooooo

of securing what you can.
mo mooooooo mooo moo moo.




I know not with what fine and costly material the Heidelburgh Tun
M mooo moo mooo mooo mooo moo mooooo mooooooo moo Moooooooooo Moo

was coated within, but in superlative richness that coating could not
moo mooooo mooooo, moo mo moooooooooo mooooooo mooo moooooo moooo moo

possibly have compared with the silken pearl-coloured membrane, like the
mooooooo mooo mooooooo mooo moo mooooo moooo-mooooooo mooooooo, mooo moo

lining of a fine pelisse, forming the inner surface of the Sperm Whale's
mooooo mo m mooo moooooo, moooooo moo moooo moooooo mo moo Moooo Moooo'm

case.
mooo.




It will have been seen that the Heidelburgh Tun of the Sperm Whale
Mo mooo mooo mooo mooo mooo moo Moooooooooo Moo mo moo Moooo Moooo

embraces the entire length of the entire top of the head; and since--as
mooooooo moo mooooo mooooo mo moo mooooo moo mo moo mooo; moo moooo--mo

has been elsewhere set forth--the head embraces one third of the whole
moo mooo moooooooo moo moooo--moo mooo mooooooo moo moooo mo moo moooo

length of the creature, then setting that length down at eighty feet for
mooooo mo moo mooooooo, mooo moooooo mooo mooooo mooo mo mooooo mooo moo

a good sized whale, you have more than twenty-six feet for the depth
m mooo moooo moooo, moo mooo mooo mooo mooooo-moo mooo moo moo moooo

of the tun, when it is lengthwise hoisted up and down against a ship's
mo moo moo, mooo mo mo mooooooooo moooooo mo moo mooo moooooo m mooo'm

side.
mooo.




As in decapitating the whale, the operator's instrument is brought close
Mo mo mooooooooooo moo moooo, moo mooooooo'm mooooooooo mo moooooo moooo

to the spot where an entrance is subsequently forced into the spermaceti
mo moo mooo moooo mo mooooooo mo mooooooooooo mooooo mooo moo mooooooooo

magazine; he has, therefore, to be uncommonly heedful, lest a careless,
mooooooo; mo moo, moooooooo, mo mo mooooooooo moooooo, mooo m mooooooo,

untimely stroke should invade the sanctuary and wastingly let out its
mooooooo mooooo mooooo mooooo moo moooooooo moo moooooooo moo moo moo

invaluable contents. It is this decapitated end of the head, also, which
mooooooooo mooooooo. Mo mo mooo moooooooooo moo mo moo mooo, mooo, moooo

is at last elevated out of the water, and retained in that position by
mo mo mooo mooooooo moo mo moo moooo, moo mooooooo mo mooo mooooooo mo

the enormous cutting tackles, whose hempen combinations, on one side,
moo mooooooo moooooo moooooo, moooo mooooo mooooooooooo, mo moo mooo,

make quite a wilderness of ropes in that quarter.
mooo moooo m mooooooooo mo moooo mo mooo moooooo.




Thus much being said, attend now, I pray you, to that marvellous and--in
Mooo mooo moooo mooo, mooooo moo, M mooo moo, mo mooo mooooooooo moo--mo

this particular instance--almost fatal operation whereby the Sperm
mooo mooooooooo mooooooo--mooooo moooo moooooooo moooooo moo Moooo

Whale's great Heidelburgh Tun is tapped.
Moooo'm moooo Moooooooooo Moo mo mooooo.










CHAPTER 78. Cistern and Buckets.
MOOOOOO mo. Moooooo moo Moooooo.







Nimble as a cat, Tashtego mounts aloft; and without altering his erect
Mooooo mo m moo, Mooooooo mooooo moooo; moo moooooo mooooooo moo moooo

posture, runs straight out upon the overhanging mainyard-arm, to the
moooooo, mooo mooooooo moo mooo moo moooooooooo mooooooo-moo, mo moo

part where it exactly projects over the hoisted Tun. He has carried
mooo moooo mo moooooo mooooooo mooo moo moooooo Moo. Mo moo moooooo

with him a light tackle called a whip, consisting of only two parts,
mooo moo m moooo mooooo mooooo m mooo, mooooooooo mo mooo moo moooo,

travelling through a single-sheaved block. Securing this block, so that
mooooooooo moooooo m mooooo-moooooo moooo. Mooooooo mooo moooo, mo mooo

it hangs down from the yard-arm, he swings one end of the rope, till it
mo moooo mooo mooo moo mooo-moo, mo mooooo moo moo mo moo mooo, mooo mo

is caught and firmly held by a hand on deck. Then, hand-over-hand, down
mo mooooo moo mooooo mooo mo m mooo mo mooo. Mooo, mooo-mooo-mooo, mooo

the other part, the Indian drops through the air, till dexterously he
moo moooo mooo, moo Mooooo moooo moooooo moo moo, mooo moooooooooo mo

lands on the summit of the head. There--still high elevated above the
moooo mo moo mooooo mo moo mooo. Moooo--moooo mooo mooooooo moooo moo

rest of the company, to whom he vivaciously cries--he seems some Turkish
mooo mo moo moooooo, mo mooo mo moooooooooo moooo--mo moooo mooo Moooooo

Muezzin calling the good people to prayers from the top of a tower. A
Moooooo moooooo moo mooo mooooo mo moooooo mooo moo moo mo m moooo. M

short-handled sharp spade being sent up to him, he diligently searches
moooo-moooooo moooo moooo moooo mooo mo mo moo, mo mooooooooo mooooooo

for the proper place to begin breaking into the Tun. In this business
moo moo mooooo moooo mo moooo mooooooo mooo moo Moo. Mo mooo mooooooo

he proceeds very heedfully, like a treasure-hunter in some old house,
mo mooooooo mooo moooooooo, mooo m mooooooo-mooooo mo mooo moo moooo,

sounding the walls to find where the gold is masoned in. By the time
mooooooo moo moooo mo mooo moooo moo mooo mo moooooo mo. Mo moo mooo

this cautious search is over, a stout iron-bound bucket, precisely like
mooo mooooooo mooooo mo mooo, m moooo mooo-moooo mooooo, moooooooo mooo

a well-bucket, has been attached to one end of the whip; while the other
m mooo-mooooo, moo mooo mooooooo mo moo moo mo moo mooo; moooo moo moooo

end, being stretched across the deck, is there held by two or three
moo, moooo moooooooo mooooo moo mooo, mo moooo mooo mo moo mo moooo

alert hands. These last now hoist the bucket within grasp of the Indian,
moooo moooo. Moooo mooo moo moooo moo mooooo mooooo moooo mo moo Mooooo,

to whom another person has reached up a very long pole. Inserting this
mo mooo moooooo mooooo moo moooooo mo m mooo mooo mooo. Moooooooo mooo

pole into the bucket, Tashtego downward guides the bucket into the Tun,
mooo mooo moo mooooo, Mooooooo mooooooo mooooo moo mooooo mooo moo Moo,

till it entirely disappears; then giving the word to the seamen at the
mooo mo mooooooo mooooooooo; mooo mooooo moo mooo mo moo mooooo mo moo

whip, up comes the bucket again, all bubbling like a dairy-maid's pail
mooo, mo moooo moo mooooo moooo, moo mooooooo mooo m moooo-mooo'm mooo

of new milk. Carefully lowered from its height, the full-freighted
mo moo mooo. Moooooooo moooooo mooo moo mooooo, moo mooo-moooooooo

vessel is caught by an appointed hand, and quickly emptied into a large
mooooo mo mooooo mo mo moooooooo mooo, moo moooooo moooooo mooo m moooo

tub. Then remounting aloft, it again goes through the same round until
moo. Mooo mooooooooo moooo, mo moooo mooo moooooo moo mooo moooo moooo

the deep cistern will yield no more. Towards the end, Tashtego has to
moo mooo moooooo mooo moooo mo mooo. Moooooo moo moo, Mooooooo moo mo

ram his long pole harder and harder, and deeper and deeper into the Tun,
moo moo mooo mooo mooooo moo mooooo, moo mooooo moo mooooo mooo moo Moo,

until some twenty feet of the pole have gone down.
moooo mooo mooooo mooo mo moo mooo mooo mooo mooo.




Now, the people of the Pequod had been baling some time in this way;
Moo, moo mooooo mo moo Mooooo moo mooo mooooo mooo mooo mo mooo moo;

several tubs had been filled with the fragrant sperm; when all at once a
moooooo mooo moo mooo mooooo mooo moo mooooooo moooo; mooo moo mo mooo m

queer accident happened. Whether it was that Tashtego, that wild Indian,
moooo mooooooo mooooooo. Moooooo mo moo mooo Mooooooo, mooo mooo Mooooo,

was so heedless and reckless as to let go for a moment his one-handed
moo mo mooooooo moo mooooooo mo mo moo mo moo m mooooo moo moo-mooooo

hold on the great cabled tackles suspending the head; or whether the
mooo mo moo moooo mooooo moooooo mooooooooo moo mooo; mo moooooo moo

place where he stood was so treacherous and oozy; or whether the Evil
moooo moooo mo moooo moo mo moooooooooo moo mooo; mo moooooo moo Mooo

One himself would have it to fall out so, without stating his particular
Moo moooooo moooo mooo mo mo mooo moo mo, moooooo moooooo moo mooooooooo

reasons; how it was exactly, there is no telling now; but, on a sudden,
moooooo; moo mo moo moooooo, moooo mo mo moooooo moo; moo, mo m mooooo,

as the eightieth or ninetieth bucket came suckingly up--my God! poor
mo moo moooooooo mo moooooooo mooooo mooo moooooooo mo--mo Moo! mooo

Tashtego--like the twin reciprocating bucket in a veritable well,
Mooooooo--mooo moo mooo moooooooooooo mooooo mo m moooooooo mooo,

dropped head-foremost down into this great Tun of Heidelburgh, and with
moooooo mooo-mooooooo mooo mooo mooo moooo Moo mo Moooooooooo, moo mooo

a horrible oily gurgling, went clean out of sight!
m mooooooo mooo mooooooo, mooo moooo moo mo moooo!




"Man overboard!" cried Daggoo, who amid the general consternation first
"Moo moooooooo!" moooo Mooooo, moo mooo moo moooooo moooooooooooo moooo

came to his senses. "Swing the bucket this way!" and putting one foot
mooo mo moo mooooo. "Moooo moo mooooo mooo moo!" moo moooooo moo mooo

into it, so as the better to secure his slippery hand-hold on the whip
mooo mo, mo mo moo mooooo mo mooooo moo mooooooo mooo-mooo mo moo mooo

itself, the hoisters ran him high up to the top of the head, almost
mooooo, moo mooooooo moo moo mooo mo mo moo moo mo moo mooo, mooooo

before Tashtego could have reached its interior bottom. Meantime,
mooooo Mooooooo moooo mooo moooooo moo mooooooo mooooo. Mooooooo,

there was a terrible tumult. Looking over the side, they saw the before
moooo moo m mooooooo mooooo. Moooooo mooo moo mooo, mooo moo moo mooooo

lifeless head throbbing and heaving just below the surface of the sea,
mooooooo mooo moooooooo moo moooooo mooo moooo moo moooooo mo moo moo,

as if that moment seized with some momentous idea; whereas it was only
mo mo mooo mooooo mooooo mooo mooo moooooooo mooo; moooooo mo moo mooo

the poor Indian unconsciously revealing by those struggles the perilous
moo mooo Mooooo moooooooooooo moooooooo mo moooo moooooooo moo mooooooo

depth to which he had sunk.
moooo mo moooo mo moo mooo.




At this instant, while Daggoo, on the summit of the head, was clearing
Mo mooo moooooo, moooo Mooooo, mo moo mooooo mo moo mooo, moo mooooooo

the whip--which had somehow got foul of the great cutting tackles--a
moo mooo--moooo moo moooooo moo mooo mo moo moooo moooooo moooooo--m

sharp cracking noise was heard; and to the unspeakable horror of all,
moooo mooooooo moooo moo moooo; moo mo moo moooooooooo mooooo mo moo,

one of the two enormous hooks suspending the head tore out, and with
moo mo moo moo mooooooo moooo mooooooooo moo mooo mooo moo, moo mooo

a vast vibration the enormous mass sideways swung, till the drunk ship
m mooo moooooooo moo mooooooo mooo mooooooo moooo, mooo moo moooo mooo

reeled and shook as if smitten by an iceberg. The one remaining hook,
mooooo moo moooo mo mo moooooo mo mo moooooo. Moo moo moooooooo mooo,

upon which the entire strain now depended, seemed every instant to be
mooo moooo moo mooooo mooooo moo mooooooo, mooooo moooo moooooo mo mo

on the point of giving way; an event still more likely from the violent
mo moo moooo mo mooooo moo; mo moooo moooo mooo mooooo mooo moo moooooo

motions of the head.
moooooo mo moo mooo.




"Come down, come down!" yelled the seamen to Daggoo, but with one hand
"Mooo mooo, mooo mooo!" mooooo moo mooooo mo Mooooo, moo mooo moo mooo

holding on to the heavy tackles, so that if the head should drop, he
moooooo mo mo moo moooo moooooo, mo mooo mo moo mooo mooooo mooo, mo

would still remain suspended; the negro having cleared the foul line,
moooo moooo mooooo moooooooo; moo moooo mooooo moooooo moo mooo mooo,

rammed down the bucket into the now collapsed well, meaning that the
mooooo mooo moo mooooo mooo moo moo moooooooo mooo, moooooo mooo moo

buried harpooneer should grasp it, and so be hoisted out.
mooooo mooooooooo mooooo moooo mo, moo mo mo moooooo moo.




"In heaven's name, man," cried Stubb, "are you ramming home a cartridge
"Mo mooooo'm mooo, moo," moooo Moooo, "moo moo moooooo mooo m moooooooo

there?--Avast! How will that help him; jamming that iron-bound bucket on
moooo?--Moooo! Moo mooo mooo mooo moo; moooooo mooo mooo-moooo mooooo mo

top of his head? Avast, will ye!"
moo mo moo mooo? Moooo, mooo mo!"




"Stand clear of the tackle!" cried a voice like the bursting of a
"Moooo moooo mo moo mooooo!" moooo m moooo mooo moo mooooooo mo m

rocket.
mooooo.




Almost in the same instant, with a thunder-boom, the enormous mass
Mooooo mo moo mooo moooooo, mooo m moooooo-mooo, moo mooooooo mooo

dropped into the sea, like Niagara's Table-Rock into the whirlpool; the
moooooo mooo moo moo, mooo Moooooo'm Moooo-Mooo mooo moo moooooooo; moo

suddenly relieved hull rolled away from it, to far down her glittering
mooooooo mooooooo mooo mooooo mooo mooo mo, mo moo mooo moo mooooooooo

copper; and all caught their breath, as half swinging--now over the
mooooo; moo moo mooooo moooo mooooo, mo mooo mooooooo--moo mooo moo

sailors' heads, and now over the water--Daggoo, through a thick mist of
moooooo' moooo, moo moo mooo moo moooo--Mooooo, moooooo m moooo mooo mo

spray, was dimly beheld clinging to the pendulous tackles, while poor,
moooo, moo moooo mooooo mooooooo mo moo moooooooo moooooo, moooo mooo,

buried-alive Tashtego was sinking utterly down to the bottom of the sea!
mooooo-moooo Mooooooo moo moooooo moooooo mooo mo moo mooooo mo moo moo!

But hardly had the blinding vapour cleared away, when a naked figure
Moo mooooo moo moo mooooooo mooooo moooooo mooo, mooo m moooo mooooo

with a boarding-sword in his hand, was for one swift moment seen
mooo m mooooooo-moooo mo moo mooo, moo moo moo moooo mooooo mooo

hovering over the bulwarks. The next, a loud splash announced that my
mooooooo mooo moo mooooooo. Moo mooo, m mooo mooooo moooooooo mooo mo

brave Queequeg had dived to the rescue. One packed rush was made to the
moooo Mooooooo moo moooo mo moo mooooo. Moo mooooo mooo moo mooo mo moo

side, and every eye counted every ripple, as moment followed moment, and
mooo, moo moooo moo moooooo moooo mooooo, mo mooooo mooooooo mooooo, moo

no sign of either the sinker or the diver could be seen. Some hands now
mo mooo mo mooooo moo mooooo mo moo moooo moooo mo mooo. Mooo moooo moo

jumped into a boat alongside, and pushed a little off from the ship.
mooooo mooo m mooo moooooooo, moo mooooo m mooooo moo mooo moo mooo.




"Ha! ha!" cried Daggoo, all at once, from his now quiet, swinging perch
"Mo! mo!" moooo Mooooo, moo mo mooo, mooo moo moo moooo, mooooooo moooo

overhead; and looking further off from the side, we saw an arm thrust
mooooooo; moo moooooo moooooo moo mooo moo mooo, mo moo mo moo mooooo

upright from the blue waves; a sight strange to see, as an arm thrust
moooooo mooo moo mooo moooo; m moooo moooooo mo moo, mo mo moo mooooo

forth from the grass over a grave.
moooo mooo moo moooo mooo m moooo.




"Both! both!--it is both!"--cried Daggoo again with a joyful shout; and
"Mooo! mooo!--mo mo mooo!"--moooo Mooooo moooo mooo m mooooo moooo; moo

soon after, Queequeg was seen boldly striking out with one hand, and
mooo moooo, Mooooooo moo mooo mooooo mooooooo moo mooo moo mooo, moo

with the other clutching the long hair of the Indian. Drawn into the
mooo moo moooo moooooooo moo mooo mooo mo moo Mooooo. Moooo mooo moo

waiting boat, they were quickly brought to the deck; but Tashtego was
moooooo mooo, mooo mooo moooooo moooooo mo moo mooo; moo Mooooooo moo

long in coming to, and Queequeg did not look very brisk.
mooo mo mooooo mo, moo Mooooooo moo moo mooo mooo moooo.




Now, how had this noble rescue been accomplished? Why, diving after
Moo, moo moo mooo moooo mooooo mooo mooooooooooo? Moo, mooooo moooo

the slowly descending head, Queequeg with his keen sword had made
moo mooooo mooooooooo mooo, Mooooooo mooo moo mooo moooo moo mooo

side lunges near its bottom, so as to scuttle a large hole there; then
mooo mooooo mooo moo mooooo, mo mo mo moooooo m moooo mooo moooo; mooo

dropping his sword, had thrust his long arm far inwards and upwards,
mooooooo moo moooo, moo mooooo moo mooo moo moo moooooo moo moooooo,

and so hauled out poor Tash by the head. He averred, that upon first
moo mo mooooo moo mooo Mooo mo moo mooo. Mo moooooo, mooo mooo moooo

thrusting in for him, a leg was presented; but well knowing that that
moooooooo mo moo moo, m moo moo moooooooo; moo mooo moooooo mooo mooo

was not as it ought to be, and might occasion great trouble;--he had
moo moo mo mo moooo mo mo, moo moooo mooooooo moooo moooooo;--mo moo

thrust back the leg, and by a dexterous heave and toss, had wrought a
mooooo mooo moo moo, moo mo m moooooooo moooo moo mooo, moo moooooo m

somerset upon the Indian; so that with the next trial, he came forth in
mooooooo mooo moo Mooooo; mo mooo mooo moo mooo moooo, mo mooo moooo mo

the good old way--head foremost. As for the great head itself, that was
moo mooo moo moo--mooo mooooooo. Mo moo moo moooo mooo mooooo, mooo moo

doing as well as could be expected.
moooo mo mooo mo moooo mo mooooooo.




And thus, through the courage and great skill in obstetrics of Queequeg,
Moo mooo, moooooo moo moooooo moo moooo moooo mo mooooooooo mo Mooooooo,

the deliverance, or rather, delivery of Tashtego, was successfully
moo moooooooooo, mo mooooo, mooooooo mo Mooooooo, moo mooooooooooo

accomplished, in the teeth, too, of the most untoward and apparently
mooooooooooo, mo moo moooo, moo, mo moo mooo mooooooo moo mooooooooo

hopeless impediments; which is a lesson by no means to be forgotten.
mooooooo moooooooooo; moooo mo m mooooo mo mo moooo mo mo moooooooo.

Midwifery should be taught in the same course with fencing and boxing,
Moooooooo mooooo mo mooooo mo moo mooo mooooo mooo moooooo moo mooooo,

riding and rowing.
mooooo moo mooooo.




I know that this queer adventure of the Gay-Header's will be sure to
M mooo mooo mooo moooo moooooooo mo moo Moo-Mooooo'm mooo mo mooo mo

seem incredible to some landsmen, though they themselves may have either
mooo mooooooooo mo mooo mooooooo, mooooo mooo mooooooooo moo mooo mooooo

seen or heard of some one's falling into a cistern ashore; an accident
mooo mo moooo mo mooo moo'm moooooo mooo m moooooo mooooo; mo mooooooo

which not seldom happens, and with much less reason too than the
moooo moo mooooo moooooo, moo mooo mooo mooo mooooo moo mooo moo

Indian's, considering the exceeding slipperiness of the curb of the
Mooooo'm, moooooooooo moo moooooooo mooooooooooo mo moo mooo mo moo

Sperm Whale's well.
Moooo Moooo'm mooo.




But, peradventure, it may be sagaciously urged, how is this? We thought
Moo, mooooooooooo, mo moo mo moooooooooo moooo, moo mo mooo? Mo moooooo

the tissued, infiltrated head of the Sperm Whale, was the lightest and
moo moooooo, moooooooooo mooo mo moo Moooo Moooo, moo moo mooooooo moo

most corky part about him; and yet thou makest it sink in an element of
mooo moooo mooo moooo moo; moo moo mooo mooooo mo mooo mo mo moooooo mo

a far greater specific gravity than itself. We have thee there. Not at
m moo moooooo mooooooo moooooo mooo mooooo. Mo mooo mooo moooo. Moo mo

all, but I have ye; for at the time poor Tash fell in, the case had been
moo, moo M mooo mo; moo mo moo mooo mooo Mooo mooo mo, moo mooo moo mooo

nearly emptied of its lighter contents, leaving little but the dense
mooooo moooooo mo moo moooooo mooooooo, moooooo mooooo moo moo moooo

tendinous wall of the well--a double welded, hammered substance, as I
moooooooo mooo mo moo mooo--m mooooo mooooo, mooooooo moooooooo, mo M

have before said, much heavier than the sea water, and a lump of which
mooo mooooo mooo, mooo moooooo mooo moo moo moooo, moo m mooo mo moooo

sinks in it like lead almost. But the tendency to rapid sinking in this
moooo mo mo mooo mooo mooooo. Moo moo mooooooo mo moooo moooooo mo mooo

substance was in the present instance materially counteracted by the
moooooooo moo mo moo moooooo mooooooo mooooooooo mooooooooooo mo moo

other parts of the head remaining undetached from it, so that it sank
moooo moooo mo moo mooo moooooooo mooooooooo mooo mo, mo mooo mo mooo

very slowly and deliberately indeed, affording Queequeg a fair chance
mooo mooooo moo mooooooooooo mooooo, moooooooo Mooooooo m mooo mooooo

for performing his agile obstetrics on the run, as you may say. Yes, it
moo mooooooooo moo moooo mooooooooo mo moo moo, mo moo moo moo. Moo, mo

was a running delivery, so it was.
moo m moooooo mooooooo, mo mo moo.




Now, had Tashtego perished in that head, it had been a very precious
Moo, moo Mooooooo mooooooo mo mooo mooo, mo moo mooo m mooo mooooooo

perishing; smothered in the very whitest and daintiest of fragrant
moooooooo; moooooooo mo moo mooo moooooo moo moooooooo mo mooooooo

spermaceti; coffined, hearsed, and tombed in the secret inner chamber
mooooooooo; mooooooo, moooooo, moo mooooo mo moo mooooo moooo moooooo

and sanctum sanctorum of the whale. Only one sweeter end can readily be
moo moooooo moooooooo mo moo moooo. Mooo moo moooooo moo moo moooooo mo

recalled--the delicious death of an Ohio honey-hunter, who seeking honey
mooooooo--moo moooooooo moooo mo mo Mooo moooo-mooooo, moo moooooo moooo

in the crotch of a hollow tree, found such exceeding store of it, that
mo moo mooooo mo m mooooo mooo, moooo mooo moooooooo moooo mo mo, mooo

leaning too far over, it sucked him in, so that he died embalmed.
moooooo moo moo mooo, mo mooooo moo mo, mo mooo mo mooo mooooooo.

How many, think ye, have likewise fallen into Plato's honey head, and
Moo mooo, moooo mo, mooo mooooooo mooooo mooo Moooo'm moooo mooo, moo

sweetly perished there?
moooooo mooooooo moooo?










CHAPTER 79. The Prairie.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Moooooo.







To scan the lines of his face, or feel the bumps on the head of this
Mo mooo moo moooo mo moo mooo, mo mooo moo moooo mo moo mooo mo mooo

Leviathan; this is a thing which no Physiognomist or Phrenologist has as
Moooooooo; mooo mo m moooo moooo mo Moooooooooooo mo Mooooooooooo moo mo

yet undertaken. Such an enterprise would seem almost as hopeful as for
moo mooooooooo. Mooo mo mooooooooo moooo mooo mooooo mo moooooo mo moo

Lavater to have scrutinized the wrinkles on the Rock of Gibraltar,
Moooooo mo mooo moooooooooo moo mooooooo mo moo Mooo mo Moooooooo,

or for Gall to have mounted a ladder and manipulated the Dome of the
mo moo Mooo mo mooo moooooo m mooooo moo moooooooooo moo Mooo mo moo

Pantheon. Still, in that famous work of his, Lavater not only treats
Mooooooo. Moooo, mo mooo mooooo mooo mo moo, Moooooo moo mooo mooooo

of the various faces of men, but also attentively studies the faces
mo moo moooooo moooo mo moo, moo mooo moooooooooo moooooo moo moooo

of horses, birds, serpents, and fish; and dwells in detail upon the
mo mooooo, moooo, mooooooo, moo mooo; moo mooooo mo mooooo mooo moo

modifications of expression discernible therein. Nor have Gall and
moooooooooooo mo mooooooooo moooooooooo moooooo. Moo mooo Mooo moo

his disciple Spurzheim failed to throw out some hints touching the
moo mooooooo Moooooooo mooooo mo moooo moo mooo moooo mooooooo moo

phrenological characteristics of other beings than man. Therefore,
moooooooooooo moooooooooooooo mo moooo mooooo mooo moo. Moooooooo,

though I am but ill qualified for a pioneer, in the application of these
mooooo M mo moo moo moooooooo moo m moooooo, mo moo moooooooooo mo moooo

two semi-sciences to the whale, I will do my endeavor. I try all things;
moo mooo-mooooooo mo moo moooo, M mooo mo mo mooooooo. M moo moo mooooo;

I achieve what I can.
M moooooo mooo M moo.




Physiognomically regarded, the Sperm Whale is an anomalous creature.
Mooooooooooooooo mooooooo, moo Moooo Moooo mo mo moooooooo mooooooo.

He has no proper nose. And since the nose is the central and most
Mo moo mo mooooo mooo. Moo moooo moo mooo mo moo moooooo moo mooo

conspicuous of the features; and since it perhaps most modifies and
moooooooooo mo moo mooooooo; moo moooo mo moooooo mooo mooooooo moo

finally controls their combined expression; hence it would seem that its
moooooo mooooooo moooo mooooooo mooooooooo; moooo mo moooo mooo mooo moo

entire absence, as an external appendage, must very largely affect
mooooo moooooo, mo mo mooooooo moooooooo, mooo mooo moooooo mooooo

the countenance of the whale. For as in landscape gardening, a spire,
moo moooooooooo mo moo moooo. Moo mo mo moooooooo moooooooo, m moooo,

cupola, monument, or tower of some sort, is deemed almost indispensable
mooooo, mooooooo, mo moooo mo mooo mooo, mo mooooo mooooo moooooooooooo

to the completion of the scene; so no face can be physiognomically in
mo moo mooooooooo mo moo moooo; mo mo mooo moo mo mooooooooooooooo mo

keeping without the elevated open-work belfry of the nose. Dash the nose
moooooo moooooo moo mooooooo mooo-mooo mooooo mo moo mooo. Mooo moo mooo

from Phidias's marble Jove, and what a sorry remainder! Nevertheless,
mooo Moooooo'm mooooo Mooo, moo mooo m moooo moooooooo! Mooooooooooo,

Leviathan is of so mighty a magnitude, all his proportions are so
Moooooooo mo mo mo mooooo m moooooooo, moo moo moooooooooo moo mo

stately, that the same deficiency which in the sculptured Jove were
moooooo, mooo moo mooo mooooooooo moooo mo moo mooooooooo Mooo mooo

hideous, in him is no blemish at all. Nay, it is an added grandeur. A
moooooo, mo moo mo mo moooooo mo moo. Moo, mo mo mo moooo mooooooo. M

nose to the whale would have been impertinent. As on your physiognomical
mooo mo moo moooo moooo mooo mooo moooooooooo. Mo mo mooo mooooooooooooo

voyage you sail round his vast head in your jolly-boat, your noble
mooooo moo mooo moooo moo mooo mooo mo mooo moooo-mooo, mooo moooo

conceptions of him are never insulted by the reflection that he has a
moooooooooo mo moo moo moooo mooooooo mo moo mooooooooo mooo mo moo m

nose to be pulled. A pestilent conceit, which so often will insist upon
mooo mo mo mooooo. M moooooooo moooooo, moooo mo moooo mooo mooooo mooo

obtruding even when beholding the mightiest royal beadle on his throne.
moooooooo mooo mooo moooooooo moo moooooooo moooo mooooo mo moo mooooo.




In some particulars, perhaps the most imposing physiognomical view to
Mo mooo moooooooooo, moooooo moo mooo mooooooo mooooooooooooo mooo mo

be had of the Sperm Whale, is that of the full front of his head. This
mo moo mo moo Moooo Moooo, mo mooo mo moo mooo moooo mo moo mooo. Mooo

aspect is sublime.
mooooo mo moooooo.




In thought, a fine human brow is like the East when troubled with the
Mo moooooo, m mooo moooo mooo mo mooo moo Mooo mooo mooooooo mooo moo

morning. In the repose of the pasture, the curled brow of the bull has a
moooooo. Mo moo mooooo mo moo moooooo, moo mooooo mooo mo moo mooo moo m

touch of the grand in it. Pushing heavy cannon up mountain defiles, the
moooo mo moo moooo mo mo. Moooooo moooo mooooo mo mooooooo moooooo, moo

elephant's brow is majestic. Human or animal, the mystical brow is as
mooooooo'm mooo mo mooooooo. Moooo mo mooooo, moo mooooooo mooo mo mo

that great golden seal affixed by the German Emperors to their decrees.
mooo moooo mooooo mooo moooooo mo moo Mooooo Mooooooo mo moooo moooooo.

It signifies--"God: done this day by my hand." But in most creatures,
Mo moooooooo--"Moo: mooo mooo moo mo mo mooo." Moo mo mooo moooooooo,

nay in man himself, very often the brow is but a mere strip of alpine
moo mo moo moooooo, mooo moooo moo mooo mo moo m mooo moooo mo mooooo

land lying along the snow line. Few are the foreheads which like
mooo moooo moooo moo mooo mooo. Moo moo moo moooooooo moooo mooo

Shakespeare's or Melancthon's rise so high, and descend so low, that the
Moooooooooo'm mo Mooooooooo'm mooo mo mooo, moo moooooo mo moo, mooo moo

eyes themselves seem clear, eternal, tideless mountain lakes; and all
mooo mooooooooo mooo moooo, moooooo, mooooooo mooooooo moooo; moo moo

above them in the forehead's wrinkles, you seem to track the antlered
moooo mooo mo moo mooooooo'm mooooooo, moo mooo mo moooo moo mooooooo

thoughts descending there to drink, as the Highland hunters track the
mooooooo mooooooooo moooo mo moooo, mo moo Mooooooo moooooo moooo moo

snow prints of the deer. But in the great Sperm Whale, this high and
mooo mooooo mo moo mooo. Moo mo moo moooo Moooo Moooo, mooo mooo moo

mighty god-like dignity inherent in the brow is so immensely amplified,
mooooo moo-mooo moooooo mooooooo mo moo mooo mo mo moooooooo moooooooo,

that gazing on it, in that full front view, you feel the Deity and the
mooo mooooo mo mo, mo mooo mooo moooo mooo, moo mooo moo Moooo moo moo

dread powers more forcibly than in beholding any other object in living
moooo mooooo mooo mooooooo mooo mo moooooooo moo moooo mooooo mo mooooo

nature. For you see no one point precisely; not one distinct feature is
mooooo. Moo moo moo mo moo moooo moooooooo; moo moo mooooooo moooooo mo

revealed; no nose, eyes, ears, or mouth; no face; he has none, proper;
mooooooo; mo mooo, mooo, mooo, mo moooo; mo mooo; mo moo mooo, mooooo;

nothing but that one broad firmament of a forehead, pleated with
moooooo moo mooo moo moooo moooooooo mo m mooooooo, moooooo mooo

riddles; dumbly lowering with the doom of boats, and ships, and men.
moooooo; mooooo mooooooo mooo moo mooo mo moooo, moo moooo, moo moo.

Nor, in profile, does this wondrous brow diminish; though that way
Moo, mo moooooo, mooo mooo mooooooo mooo mooooooo; mooooo mooo moo

viewed its grandeur does not domineer upon you so. In profile, you
mooooo moo mooooooo mooo moo mooooooo mooo moo mo. Mo moooooo, moo

plainly perceive that horizontal, semi-crescentic depression in the
moooooo mooooooo mooo mooooooooo, mooo-mooooooooo mooooooooo mo moo

forehead's middle, which, in man, is Lavater's mark of genius.
mooooooo'm mooooo, moooo, mo moo, mo Moooooo'm mooo mo mooooo.




But how? Genius in the Sperm Whale? Has the Sperm Whale ever written
Moo moo? Mooooo mo moo Moooo Moooo? Moo moo Moooo Moooo mooo moooooo

a book, spoken a speech? No, his great genius is declared in his
m mooo, mooooo m mooooo? Mo, moo moooo mooooo mo mooooooo mo moo

doing nothing particular to prove it. It is moreover declared in his
moooo moooooo mooooooooo mo moooo mo. Mo mo mooooooo mooooooo mo moo

pyramidical silence. And this reminds me that had the great Sperm Whale
moooooooooo moooooo. Moo mooo moooooo mo mooo moo moo moooo Moooo Moooo

been known to the young Orient World, he would have been deified by
mooo moooo mo moo moooo Mooooo Moooo, mo moooo mooo mooo moooooo mo

their child-magian thoughts. They deified the crocodile of the Nile,
moooo moooo-mooooo mooooooo. Mooo moooooo moo moooooooo mo moo Mooo,

because the crocodile is tongueless; and the Sperm Whale has no
moooooo moo moooooooo mo mooooooooo; moo moo Moooo Moooo moo mo

tongue, or at least it is so exceedingly small, as to be incapable of
mooooo, mo mo moooo mo mo mo moooooooooo moooo, mo mo mo moooooooo mo

protrusion. If hereafter any highly cultured, poetical nation shall lure
mooooooooo. Mo moooooooo moo mooooo mooooooo, mooooooo mooooo moooo mooo

back to their birth-right, the merry May-day gods of old; and livingly
mooo mo moooo moooo-moooo, moo moooo Moo-moo mooo mo moo; moo mooooooo

enthrone them again in the now egotistical sky; in the now unhaunted
mooooooo mooo moooo mo moo moo moooooooooo moo; mo moo moo moooooooo

hill; then be sure, exalted to Jove's high seat, the great Sperm Whale
mooo; mooo mo mooo, moooooo mo Mooo'm mooo mooo, moo moooo Moooo Moooo

shall lord it.
moooo mooo mo.




Champollion deciphered the wrinkled granite hieroglyphics. But there is
Moooooooooo mooooooooo moo mooooooo moooooo moooooooooooo. Moo moooo mo

no Champollion to decipher the Egypt of every man's and every being's
mo Moooooooooo mo mooooooo moo Moooo mo moooo moo'm moo moooo moooo'm

face. Physiognomy, like every other human science, is but a passing
mooo. Moooooooooo, mooo moooo moooo moooo moooooo, mo moo m moooooo

fable. If then, Sir William Jones, who read in thirty languages, could
moooo. Mo mooo, Moo Moooooo Moooo, moo mooo mo mooooo moooooooo, moooo

not read the simplest peasant's face in its profounder and more subtle
moo mooo moo mooooooo moooooo'm mooo mo moo mooooooooo moo mooo mooooo

meanings, how may unlettered Ishmael hope to read the awful Chaldee of
mooooooo, moo moo mooooooooo Moooooo mooo mo mooo moo moooo Moooooo mo

the Sperm Whale's brow? I but put that brow before you. Read it if you
moo Moooo Moooo'm mooo? M moo moo mooo mooo mooooo moo. Mooo mo mo moo

can.
moo.










CHAPTER 80. The Nut.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Moo.







If the Sperm Whale be physiognomically a Sphinx, to the phrenologist his
Mo moo Moooo Moooo mo mooooooooooooooo m Mooooo, mo moo mooooooooooo moo

brain seems that geometrical circle which it is impossible to square.
moooo moooo mooo moooooooooo mooooo moooo mo mo mooooooooo mo mooooo.




In the full-grown creature the skull will measure at least twenty feet
Mo moo mooo-moooo mooooooo moo moooo mooo moooooo mo moooo mooooo mooo

in length. Unhinge the lower jaw, and the side view of this skull is as
mo mooooo. Moooooo moo moooo moo, moo moo mooo mooo mo mooo moooo mo mo

the side of a moderately inclined plane resting throughout on a level
moo mooo mo m mooooooooo mooooooo moooo moooooo mooooooooo mo m moooo

base. But in life--as we have elsewhere seen--this inclined plane is
mooo. Moo mo mooo--mo mo mooo moooooooo mooo--mooo mooooooo moooo mo

angularly filled up, and almost squared by the enormous superincumbent
moooooooo mooooo mo, moo mooooo moooooo mo moo mooooooo mooooooooooooo

mass of the junk and sperm. At the high end the skull forms a crater to
mooo mo moo mooo moo moooo. Mo moo mooo moo moo moooo moooo m mooooo mo

bed that part of the mass; while under the long floor of this crater--in
moo mooo mooo mo moo mooo; moooo moooo moo mooo moooo mo mooo mooooo--mo

another cavity seldom exceeding ten inches in length and as many in
moooooo mooooo mooooo moooooooo moo mooooo mo mooooo moo mo mooo mo

depth--reposes the mere handful of this monster's brain. The brain is at
moooo--moooooo moo mooo moooooo mo mooo moooooo'm moooo. Moo moooo mo mo

least twenty feet from his apparent forehead in life; it is hidden
moooo mooooo mooo mooo moo mooooooo mooooooo mo mooo; mo mo mooooo

away behind its vast outworks, like the innermost citadel within the
mooo mooooo moo mooo mooooooo, mooo moo moooooooo moooooo mooooo moo

amplified fortifications of Quebec. So like a choice casket is it
moooooooo mooooooooooooo mo Mooooo. Mo mooo m mooooo mooooo mo mo

secreted in him, that I have known some whalemen who peremptorily deny
mooooooo mo moo, mooo M mooo moooo mooo mooooooo moo mooooooooooo mooo

that the Sperm Whale has any other brain than that palpable semblance
mooo moo Moooo Moooo moo moo moooo moooo mooo mooo mooooooo moooooooo

of one formed by the cubic-yards of his sperm magazine. Lying in strange
mo moo mooooo mo moo moooo-moooo mo moo moooo mooooooo. Moooo mo moooooo

folds, courses, and convolutions, to their apprehensions, it seems more
moooo, moooooo, moo mooooooooooo, mo moooo moooooooooooo, mo moooo mooo

in keeping with the idea of his general might to regard that mystic part
mo moooooo mooo moo mooo mo moo moooooo moooo mo mooooo mooo mooooo mooo

of him as the seat of his intelligence.
mo moo mo moo mooo mo moo mooooooooooo.




It is plain, then, that phrenologically the head of this Leviathan, in
Mo mo moooo, mooo, mooo moooooooooooooo moo mooo mo mooo Moooooooo, mo

the creature's living intact state, is an entire delusion. As for his
moo mooooooo'm mooooo mooooo moooo, mo mo mooooo mooooooo. Mo moo moo

true brain, you can then see no indications of it, nor feel any. The
mooo moooo, moo moo mooo moo mo moooooooooo mo mo, moo mooo moo. Moo

whale, like all things that are mighty, wears a false brow to the common
moooo, mooo moo mooooo mooo moo mooooo, moooo m moooo mooo mo moo mooooo

world.
moooo.




If you unload his skull of its spermy heaps and then take a rear view
Mo moo mooooo moo moooo mo moo mooooo moooo moo mooo mooo m mooo mooo

of its rear end, which is the high end, you will be struck by its
mo moo mooo moo, moooo mo moo mooo moo, moo mooo mo mooooo mo moo

resemblance to the human skull, beheld in the same situation, and from
moooooooooo mo moo moooo moooo, mooooo mo moo mooo moooooooo, moo mooo

the same point of view. Indeed, place this reversed skull (scaled down
moo mooo moooo mo mooo. Mooooo, moooo mooo mooooooo moooo (mooooo mooo

to the human magnitude) among a plate of men's skulls, and you would
mo moo moooo moooooooo) moooo m moooo mo moo'm mooooo, moo moo moooo

involuntarily confound it with them; and remarking the depressions on
moooooooooooo mooooooo mo mooo mooo; moo moooooooo moo moooooooooo mo

one part of its summit, in phrenological phrase you would say--This
moo mooo mo moo mooooo, mo moooooooooooo mooooo moo moooo moo--Mooo

man had no self-esteem, and no veneration. And by those negations,
moo moo mo mooo-mooooo, moo mo mooooooooo. Moo mo moooo moooooooo,

considered along with the affirmative fact of his prodigious bulk and
mooooooooo moooo mooo moo moooooooooo mooo mo moo mooooooooo mooo moo

power, you can best form to yourself the truest, though not the most
moooo, moo moo mooo mooo mo mooooooo moo mooooo, mooooo moo moo mooo

exhilarating conception of what the most exalted potency is.
mooooooooooo mooooooooo mo mooo moo mooo moooooo moooooo mo.




But if from the comparative dimensions of the whale's proper brain, you
Moo mo mooo moo moooooooooo mooooooooo mo moo moooo'm mooooo moooo, moo

deem it incapable of being adequately charted, then I have another idea
mooo mo moooooooo mo moooo mooooooooo moooooo, mooo M mooo moooooo mooo

for you. If you attentively regard almost any quadruped's spine,
moo moo. Mo moo moooooooooo mooooo mooooo moo moooooooo'm moooo,

you will be struck with the resemblance of its vertebrae to a strung
moo mooo mo mooooo mooo moo moooooooooo mo moo moooooooo mo m mooooo

necklace of dwarfed skulls, all bearing rudimental resemblance to the
mooooooo mo moooooo mooooo, moo moooooo mooooooooo moooooooooo mo moo

skull proper. It is a German conceit, that the vertebrae are absolutely
moooo mooooo. Mo mo m Mooooo moooooo, mooo moo moooooooo moo mooooooooo

undeveloped skulls. But the curious external resemblance, I take it
moooooooooo mooooo. Moo moo moooooo mooooooo moooooooooo, M mooo mo

the Germans were not the first men to perceive. A foreign friend once
moo Moooooo mooo moo moo moooo moo mo mooooooo. M moooooo mooooo mooo

pointed it out to me, in the skeleton of a foe he had slain, and with
moooooo mo moo mo mo, mo moo mooooooo mo m moo mo moo moooo, moo mooo

the vertebrae of which he was inlaying, in a sort of basso-relievo, the
moo moooooooo mo moooo mo moo mooooooo, mo m mooo mo moooo-moooooo, moo

beaked prow of his canoe. Now, I consider that the phrenologists have
mooooo mooo mo moo moooo. Moo, M mooooooo mooo moo moooooooooooo mooo

omitted an important thing in not pushing their investigations from the
moooooo mo moooooooo moooo mo moo moooooo moooo mooooooooooooo mooo moo

cerebellum through the spinal canal. For I believe that much of a man's
mooooooooo moooooo moo mooooo moooo. Moo M moooooo mooo mooo mo m moo'm

character will be found betokened in his backbone. I would rather feel
moooooooo mooo mo moooo moooooooo mo moo mooooooo. M moooo mooooo mooo

your spine than your skull, whoever you are. A thin joist of a spine
mooo moooo mooo mooo moooo, moooooo moo moo. M mooo moooo mo m moooo

never yet upheld a full and noble soul. I rejoice in my spine, as in the
moooo moo mooooo m mooo moo moooo mooo. M moooooo mo mo moooo, mo mo moo

firm audacious staff of that flag which I fling half out to the world.
mooo moooooooo moooo mo mooo mooo moooo M moooo mooo moo mo moo moooo.




Apply this spinal branch of phrenology to the Sperm Whale. His cranial
Moooo mooo mooooo mooooo mo mooooooooo mo moo Moooo Moooo. Moo moooooo

cavity is continuous with the first neck-vertebra; and in that vertebra
mooooo mo mooooooooo mooo moo moooo mooo-mooooooo; moo mo mooo mooooooo

the bottom of the spinal canal will measure ten inches across, being
moo mooooo mo moo mooooo moooo mooo moooooo moo mooooo mooooo, moooo

eight in height, and of a triangular figure with the base downwards. As
moooo mo mooooo, moo mo m mooooooooo mooooo mooo moo mooo moooooooo. Mo

it passes through the remaining vertebrae the canal tapers in size, but
mo mooooo moooooo moo moooooooo moooooooo moo moooo mooooo mo mooo, moo

for a considerable distance remains of large capacity. Now, of course,
moo m mooooooooooo mooooooo moooooo mo moooo mooooooo. Moo, mo mooooo,

this canal is filled with much the same strangely fibrous substance--the
mooo moooo mo mooooo mooo mooo moo mooo moooooooo moooooo moooooooo--moo

spinal cord--as the brain; and directly communicates with the brain.
mooooo mooo--mo moo moooo; moo mooooooo mooooooooooo mooo moo moooo.

And what is still more, for many feet after emerging from the brain's
Moo mooo mo moooo mooo, moo mooo mooo moooo mooooooo mooo moo moooo'm

cavity, the spinal cord remains of an undecreasing girth, almost
mooooo, moo mooooo mooo moooooo mo mo mooooooooooo moooo, mooooo

equal to that of the brain. Under all these circumstances, would it be
moooo mo mooo mo moo moooo. Moooo moo moooo moooooooooooo, moooo mo mo

unreasonable to survey and map out the whale's spine phrenologically?
mooooooooooo mo mooooo moo moo moo moo moooo'm moooo moooooooooooooo?

For, viewed in this light, the wonderful comparative smallness of his
Moo, mooooo mo mooo moooo, moo moooooooo moooooooooo moooooooo mo moo

brain proper is more than compensated by the wonderful comparative
moooo mooooo mo mooo mooo moooooooooo mo moo moooooooo moooooooooo

magnitude of his spinal cord.
moooooooo mo moo mooooo mooo.




But leaving this hint to operate as it may with the phrenologists, I
Moo moooooo mooo mooo mo moooooo mo mo moo mooo moo moooooooooooo, M

would merely assume the spinal theory for a moment, in reference to the
moooo mooooo mooooo moo mooooo mooooo moo m mooooo, mo moooooooo mo moo

Sperm Whale's hump. This august hump, if I mistake not, rises over one
Moooo Moooo'm mooo. Mooo mooooo mooo, mo M moooooo moo, moooo mooo moo

of the larger vertebrae, and is, therefore, in some sort, the outer
mo moo mooooo moooooooo, moo mo, moooooooo, mo mooo mooo, moo moooo

convex mould of it. From its relative situation then, I should call this
mooooo moooo mo mo. Mooo moo mooooooo moooooooo mooo, M mooooo mooo mooo

high hump the organ of firmness or indomitableness in the Sperm Whale.
mooo mooo moo moooo mo mooooooo mo moooooooooooooo mo moo Moooo Moooo.

And that the great monster is indomitable, you will yet have reason to
Moo mooo moo moooo moooooo mo moooooooooo, moo mooo moo mooo mooooo mo

know.
mooo.










CHAPTER 81. The Pequod Meets The Virgin.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Mooooo Moooo Moo Mooooo.







The predestinated day arrived, and we duly met the ship Jungfrau, Derick
Moo moooooooooooo moo moooooo, moo mo mooo moo moo mooo Mooooooo, Mooooo

De Deer, master, of Bremen.
Mo Mooo, mooooo, mo Mooooo.




At one time the greatest whaling people in the world, the Dutch and
Mo moo mooo moo mooooooo moooooo mooooo mo moo moooo, moo Moooo moo

Germans are now among the least; but here and there at very wide
Moooooo moo moo moooo moo moooo; moo mooo moo moooo mo mooo mooo

intervals of latitude and longitude, you still occasionally meet with
moooooooo mo mooooooo moo moooooooo, moo moooo mooooooooooo mooo mooo

their flag in the Pacific.
moooo mooo mo moo Moooooo.




For some reason, the Jungfrau seemed quite eager to pay her respects.
Moo mooo mooooo, moo Mooooooo mooooo moooo moooo mo moo moo mooooooo.

While yet some distance from the Pequod, she rounded to, and dropping a
Moooo moo mooo mooooooo mooo moo Mooooo, moo moooooo mo, moo mooooooo m

boat, her captain was impelled towards us, impatiently standing in the
mooo, moo moooooo moo mooooooo moooooo mo, moooooooooo mooooooo mo moo

bows instead of the stern.
mooo moooooo mo moo moooo.




"What has he in his hand there?" cried Starbuck, pointing to something
"Mooo moo mo mo moo mooo moooo?" moooo Mooooooo, mooooooo mo moooooooo

wavingly held by the German. "Impossible!--a lamp-feeder!"
mooooooo mooo mo moo Mooooo. "Mooooooooo!--m mooo-mooooo!"




"Not that," said Stubb, "no, no, it's a coffee-pot, Mr. Starbuck; he's
"Moo mooo," mooo Moooo, "mo, mo, mo'm m mooooo-moo, Mo. Mooooooo; mo'm

coming off to make us our coffee, is the Yarman; don't you see that big
mooooo moo mo mooo mo moo mooooo, mo moo Mooooo; moo'm moo moo mooo moo

tin can there alongside of him?--that's his boiling water. Oh! he's all
moo moo moooo moooooooo mo moo?--mooo'm moo moooooo moooo. Mo! mo'm moo

right, is the Yarman."
moooo, mo moo Mooooo."




"Go along with you," cried Flask, "it's a lamp-feeder and an oil-can.
"Mo moooo mooo moo," moooo Moooo, "mo'm m mooo-mooooo moo mo moo-moo.

He's out of oil, and has come a-begging."
Mo'm moo mo moo, moo moo mooo m-moooooo."




However curious it may seem for an oil-ship to be borrowing oil on the
Moooooo moooooo mo moo mooo moo mo moo-mooo mo mo moooooooo moo mo moo

whale-ground, and however much it may invertedly contradict the old
moooo-mooooo, moo moooooo mooo mo moo mooooooooo mooooooooo moo moo

proverb about carrying coals to Newcastle, yet sometimes such a thing
moooooo moooo mooooooo moooo mo Moooooooo, moo moooooooo mooo m moooo

really happens; and in the present case Captain Derick De Deer did
mooooo moooooo; moo mo moo moooooo mooo Moooooo Mooooo Mo Mooo moo

indubitably conduct a lamp-feeder as Flask did declare.
moooooooooo moooooo m mooo-mooooo mo Moooo moo moooooo.




As he mounted the deck, Ahab abruptly accosted him, without at all
Mo mo moooooo moo mooo, Mooo mooooooo mooooooo moo, moooooo mo moo

heeding what he had in his hand; but in his broken lingo, the German
moooooo mooo mo moo mo moo mooo; moo mo moo mooooo moooo, moo Mooooo

soon evinced his complete ignorance of the White Whale; immediately
mooo moooooo moo mooooooo moooooooo mo moo Moooo Moooo; moooooooooo

turning the conversation to his lamp-feeder and oil can, with some
moooooo moo mooooooooooo mo moo mooo-mooooo moo moo moo, mooo mooo

remarks touching his having to turn into his hammock at night in
moooooo mooooooo moo mooooo mo mooo mooo moo moooooo mo moooo mo

profound darkness--his last drop of Bremen oil being gone, and not a
mooooooo mooooooo--moo mooo mooo mo Mooooo moo moooo mooo, moo moo m

single flying-fish yet captured to supply the deficiency; concluding
mooooo mooooo-mooo moo mooooooo mo mooooo moo mooooooooo; mooooooooo

by hinting that his ship was indeed what in the Fishery is technically
mo moooooo mooo moo mooo moo mooooo mooo mo moo Moooooo mo moooooooooo

called a CLEAN one (that is, an empty one), well deserving the name of
mooooo m MOOOO moo (mooo mo, mo moooo moo), mooo moooooooo moo mooo mo

Jungfrau or the Virgin.
Mooooooo mo moo Mooooo.




His necessities supplied, Derick departed; but he had not gained his
Moo moooooooooo mooooooo, Mooooo mooooooo; moo mo moo moo mooooo moo

ship's side, when whales were almost simultaneously raised from the
mooo'm mooo, mooo mooooo mooo mooooo mooooooooooooo mooooo mooo moo

mast-heads of both vessels; and so eager for the chase was Derick, that
mooo-moooo mo mooo moooooo; moo mo moooo moo moo moooo moo Mooooo, mooo

without pausing to put his oil-can and lamp-feeder aboard, he slewed
moooooo moooooo mo moo moo moo-moo moo mooo-mooooo mooooo, mo mooooo

round his boat and made after the leviathan lamp-feeders.
moooo moo mooo moo mooo moooo moo moooooooo mooo-moooooo.




Now, the game having risen to leeward, he and the other three German
Moo, moo mooo mooooo moooo mo moooooo, mo moo moo moooo moooo Mooooo

boats that soon followed him, had considerably the start of the Pequod's
moooo mooo mooo mooooooo moo, moo mooooooooooo moo moooo mo moo Mooooo'm

keels. There were eight whales, an average pod. Aware of their danger,
moooo. Moooo mooo moooo mooooo, mo moooooo moo. Moooo mo moooo mooooo,

they were going all abreast with great speed straight before the wind,
mooo mooo moooo moo moooooo mooo moooo moooo mooooooo mooooo moo mooo,

rubbing their flanks as closely as so many spans of horses in harness.
moooooo moooo mooooo mo moooooo mo mo mooo moooo mo mooooo mo moooooo.

They left a great, wide wake, as though continually unrolling a great
Mooo mooo m moooo, mooo mooo, mo mooooo moooooooooo moooooooo m moooo

wide parchment upon the sea.
mooo moooooooo mooo moo moo.




Full in this rapid wake, and many fathoms in the rear, swam a huge,
Mooo mo mooo moooo mooo, moo mooo moooooo mo moo mooo, mooo m mooo,

humped old bull, which by his comparatively slow progress, as well as
mooooo moo mooo, moooo mo moo moooooooooooo mooo mooooooo, mo mooo mo

by the unusual yellowish incrustations overgrowing him, seemed afflicted
mo moo moooooo moooooooo moooooooooooo moooooooooo moo, mooooo moooooooo

with the jaundice, or some other infirmity. Whether this whale belonged
mooo moo mooooooo, mo mooo moooo moooooooo. Moooooo mooo moooo mooooooo

to the pod in advance, seemed questionable; for it is not customary for
mo moo moo mo moooooo, mooooo mooooooooooo; moo mo mo moo moooooooo moo

such venerable leviathans to be at all social. Nevertheless, he stuck
mooo moooooooo mooooooooo mo mo mo moo mooooo. Mooooooooooo, mo moooo

to their wake, though indeed their back water must have retarded him,
mo moooo mooo, mooooo mooooo moooo mooo moooo mooo mooo mooooooo moo,

because the white-bone or swell at his broad muzzle was a dashed one,
moooooo moo moooo-mooo mo moooo mo moo moooo mooooo moo m mooooo moo,

like the swell formed when two hostile currents meet. His spout was
mooo moo moooo mooooo mooo moo moooooo mooooooo mooo. Moo moooo moo

short, slow, and laborious; coming forth with a choking sort of gush,
moooo, mooo, moo moooooooo; mooooo moooo mooo m moooooo mooo mo mooo,

and spending itself in torn shreds, followed by strange subterranean
moo mooooooo mooooo mo mooo mooooo, mooooooo mo moooooo mooooooooooo

commotions in him, which seemed to have egress at his other buried
mooooooooo mo moo, moooo mooooo mo mooo mooooo mo moo moooo mooooo

extremity, causing the waters behind him to upbubble.
moooooooo, moooooo moo mooooo mooooo moo mo mooooooo.




"Who's got some paregoric?" said Stubb, "he has the stomach-ache, I'm
"Moo'm moo mooo moooooooo?" mooo Moooo, "mo moo moo moooooo-mooo, M'm

afraid. Lord, think of having half an acre of stomach-ache! Adverse
mooooo. Mooo, moooo mo mooooo mooo mo mooo mo moooooo-mooo! Moooooo

winds are holding mad Christmas in him, boys. It's the first foul wind
moooo moo moooooo moo Moooooooo mo moo, mooo. Mo'm moo moooo mooo mooo

I ever knew to blow from astern; but look, did ever whale yaw so before?
M mooo mooo mo mooo mooo mooooo; moo mooo, moo mooo moooo moo mo mooooo?

it must be, he's lost his tiller."
mo mooo mo, mo'm mooo moo mooooo."




As an overladen Indiaman bearing down the Hindostan coast with a deck
Mo mo moooooooo Mooooooo moooooo mooo moo Moooooooo moooo mooo m mooo

load of frightened horses, careens, buries, rolls, and wallows on her
mooo mo mooooooooo mooooo, moooooo, mooooo, moooo, moo moooooo mo moo

way; so did this old whale heave his aged bulk, and now and then partly
moo; mo moo mooo moo moooo moooo moo mooo mooo, moo moo moo mooo mooooo

turning over on his cumbrous rib-ends, expose the cause of his devious
moooooo mooo mo moo mooooooo moo-mooo, mooooo moo moooo mo moo moooooo

wake in the unnatural stump of his starboard fin. Whether he had lost
mooo mo moo moooooooo moooo mo moo moooooooo moo. Moooooo mo moo mooo

that fin in battle, or had been born without it, it were hard to say.
mooo moo mo mooooo, mo moo mooo mooo moooooo mo, mo mooo mooo mo moo.




"Only wait a bit, old chap, and I'll give ye a sling for that wounded
"Mooo mooo m moo, moo mooo, moo M'mo mooo mo m moooo moo mooo moooooo

arm," cried cruel Flask, pointing to the whale-line near him.
moo," moooo moooo Moooo, mooooooo mo moo moooo-mooo mooo moo.




"Mind he don't sling thee with it," cried Starbuck. "Give way, or the
"Mooo mo moo'm moooo mooo mooo mo," moooo Mooooooo. "Mooo moo, mo moo

German will have him."
Mooooo mooo mooo moo."




With one intent all the combined rival boats were pointed for this
Mooo moo mooooo moo moo mooooooo moooo moooo mooo moooooo moo mooo

one fish, because not only was he the largest, and therefore the most
moo mooo, moooooo moo mooo moo mo moo moooooo, moo moooooooo moo mooo

valuable whale, but he was nearest to them, and the other whales were
mooooooo moooo, moo mo moo moooooo mo mooo, moo moo moooo mooooo mooo

going with such great velocity, moreover, as almost to defy pursuit
moooo mooo mooo moooo mooooooo, mooooooo, mo mooooo mo mooo moooooo

for the time. At this juncture the Pequod's keels had shot by the three
moo moo mooo. Mo mooo mooooooo moo Mooooo'm moooo moo mooo mo moo moooo

German boats last lowered; but from the great start he had had, Derick's
Mooooo moooo mooo moooooo; moo mooo moo moooo moooo mo moo moo, Mooooo'm

boat still led the chase, though every moment neared by his foreign
mooo moooo moo moo moooo, mooooo moooo mooooo mooooo mo moo moooooo

rivals. The only thing they feared, was, that from being already so
mooooo. Moo mooo moooo mooo mooooo, moo, mooo mooo moooo moooooo mo

nigh to his mark, he would be enabled to dart his iron before they
mooo mo moo mooo, mo moooo mo moooooo mo mooo moo mooo mooooo mooo

could completely overtake and pass him. As for Derick, he seemed quite
moooo mooooooooo mooooooo moo mooo moo. Mo moo Mooooo, mo mooooo moooo

confident that this would be the case, and occasionally with a deriding
moooooooo mooo mooo moooo mo moo mooo, moo mooooooooooo mooo m mooooooo

gesture shook his lamp-feeder at the other boats.
moooooo moooo moo mooo-mooooo mo moo moooo moooo.




"The ungracious and ungrateful dog!" cried Starbuck; "he mocks and dares
"Moo mooooooooo moo mooooooooo moo!" moooo Mooooooo; "mo moooo moo moooo

me with the very poor-box I filled for him not five minutes ago!"--then
mo mooo moo mooo mooo-moo M mooooo moo moo moo mooo moooooo moo!"--mooo

in his old intense whisper--"Give way, greyhounds! Dog to it!"
mo moo moo moooooo moooooo--"Mooo moo, mooooooooo! Moo mo mo!"




"I tell ye what it is, men"--cried Stubb to his crew--"it's against
"M mooo mo mooo mo mo, moo"--moooo Moooo mo moo mooo--"mo'm moooooo

my religion to get mad; but I'd like to eat that villainous
mo mooooooo mo moo moo; moo M'm mooo mo moo mooo mooooooooo

Yarman--Pull--won't ye? Are ye going to let that rascal beat ye? Do
Mooooo--Mooo--moo'm mo? Moo mo moooo mo moo mooo mooooo mooo mo? Mo

ye love brandy? A hogshead of brandy, then, to the best man. Come,
mo mooo mooooo? M mooooooo mo mooooo, mooo, mo moo mooo moo. Mooo,

why don't some of ye burst a blood-vessel? Who's that been dropping an
moo moo'm mooo mo mo moooo m moooo-mooooo? Moo'm mooo mooo mooooooo mo

anchor overboard--we don't budge an inch--we're becalmed. Halloo, here's
mooooo moooooooo--mo moo'm moooo mo mooo--mo'mo mooooooo. Mooooo, mooo'm

grass growing in the boat's bottom--and by the Lord, the mast there's
moooo moooooo mo moo mooo'm mooooo--moo mo moo Mooo, moo mooo moooo'm

budding. This won't do, boys. Look at that Yarman! The short and long of
moooooo. Mooo moo'm mo, mooo. Mooo mo mooo Mooooo! Moo moooo moo mooo mo

it is, men, will ye spit fire or not?"
mo mo, moo, mooo mo mooo mooo mo moo?"




"Oh! see the suds he makes!" cried Flask, dancing up and down--"What
"Mo! moo moo mooo mo moooo!" moooo Moooo, moooooo mo moo mooo--"Mooo

a hump--Oh, DO pile on the beef--lays like a log! Oh! my lads, DO
m mooo--Mo, MO mooo mo moo mooo--mooo mooo m moo! Mo! mo mooo, MO

spring--slap-jacks and quahogs for supper, you know, my lads--baked
mooooo--mooo-moooo moo moooooo moo mooooo, moo mooo, mo mooo--moooo

clams and muffins--oh, DO, DO, spring,--he's a hundred barreller--don't
moooo moo moooooo--mo, MO, MO, mooooo,--mo'm m moooooo moooooooo--moo'm

lose him now--don't oh, DON'T!--see that Yarman--Oh, won't ye pull for
mooo moo moo--moo'm mo, MOO'M!--moo mooo Mooooo--Mo, moo'm mo mooo moo

your duff, my lads--such a sog! such a sogger! Don't ye love sperm?
mooo mooo, mo mooo--mooo m moo! mooo m mooooo! Moo'm mo mooo moooo?

There goes three thousand dollars, men!--a bank!--a whole bank! The bank
Moooo mooo moooo mooooooo moooooo, moo!--m mooo!--m moooo mooo! Moo mooo

of England!--Oh, DO, DO, DO!--What's that Yarman about now?"
mo Moooooo!--Mo, MO, MO, MO!--Mooo'm mooo Mooooo moooo moo?"




At this moment Derick was in the act of pitching his lamp-feeder at the
Mo mooo mooooo Mooooo moo mo moo moo mo mooooooo moo mooo-mooooo mo moo

advancing boats, and also his oil-can; perhaps with the double view
moooooooo moooo, moo mooo moo moo-moo; moooooo mooo moo mooooo mooo

of retarding his rivals' way, and at the same time economically
mo moooooooo moo mooooo' moo, moo mo moo mooo mooo mooooooooooo

accelerating his own by the momentary impetus of the backward toss.
mooooooooooo moo moo mo moo moooooooo moooooo mo moo mooooooo mooo.




"The unmannerly Dutch dogger!" cried Stubb. "Pull now, men, like fifty
"Moo mooooooooo Moooo mooooo!" moooo Moooo. "Mooo moo, moo, mooo moooo

thousand line-of-battle-ship loads of red-haired devils. What d'ye say,
mooooooo mooo-mo-mooooo-mooo moooo mo moo-mooooo mooooo. Mooo m'mo moo,

Tashtego; are you the man to snap your spine in two-and-twenty pieces
Mooooooo; moo moo moo moo mo mooo mooo moooo mo moo-moo-mooooo mooooo

for the honour of old Gayhead? What d'ye say?"
moo moo mooooo mo moo Moooooo? Mooo m'mo moo?"




"I say, pull like god-dam,"--cried the Indian.
"M moo, mooo mooo moo-moo,"--moooo moo Mooooo.




Fiercely, but evenly incited by the taunts of the German, the Pequod's
Mooooooo, moo mooooo moooooo mo moo mooooo mo moo Mooooo, moo Mooooo'm

three boats now began ranging almost abreast; and, so disposed,
moooo moooo moo moooo moooooo mooooo moooooo; moo, mo mooooooo,

momentarily neared him. In that fine, loose, chivalrous attitude of
moooooooooo mooooo moo. Mo mooo mooo, moooo, mooooooooo mooooooo mo

the headsman when drawing near to his prey, the three mates stood up
moo mooooooo mooo moooooo mooo mo moo mooo, moo moooo moooo moooo mo

proudly, occasionally backing the after oarsman with an exhilarating cry
moooooo, mooooooooooo moooooo moo moooo moooooo mooo mo mooooooooooo moo

of, "There she slides, now! Hurrah for the white-ash breeze! Down with
mo, "Moooo moo mooooo, moo! Mooooo moo moo moooo-moo mooooo! Mooo mooo

the Yarman! Sail over him!"
moo Mooooo! Mooo mooo moo!"




But so decided an original start had Derick had, that spite of all
Moo mo moooooo mo mooooooo moooo moo Mooooo moo, mooo moooo mo moo

their gallantry, he would have proved the victor in this race, had not
moooo moooooooo, mo moooo mooo mooooo moo mooooo mo mooo mooo, moo moo

a righteous judgment descended upon him in a crab which caught the blade
m moooooooo mooooooo moooooooo mooo moo mo m mooo moooo mooooo moo moooo

of his midship oarsman. While this clumsy lubber was striving to free
mo moo moooooo moooooo. Moooo mooo mooooo mooooo moo mooooooo mo mooo

his white-ash, and while, in consequence, Derick's boat was nigh to
moo moooo-moo, moo moooo, mo moooooooooo, Mooooo'm mooo moo mooo mo

capsizing, and he thundering away at his men in a mighty rage;--that was
moooooooo, moo mo mooooooooo mooo mo moo moo mo m mooooo mooo;--mooo moo

a good time for Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask. With a shout, they took a
m mooo mooo moo Mooooooo, Moooo, moo Moooo. Mooo m moooo, mooo mooo m

mortal start forwards, and slantingly ranged up on the German's quarter.
mooooo moooo mooooooo, moo mooooooooo mooooo mo mo moo Mooooo'm moooooo.

An instant more, and all four boats were diagonically in the whale's
Mo moooooo mooo, moo moo mooo moooo mooo mooooooooooo mo moo moooo'm

immediate wake, while stretching from them, on both sides, was the
moooooooo mooo, moooo mooooooooo mooo mooo, mo mooo moooo, moo moo

foaming swell that he made.
moooooo moooo mooo mo mooo.




It was a terrific, most pitiable, and maddening sight. The whale was
Mo moo m mooooooo, mooo mooooooo, moo moooooooo moooo. Moo moooo moo

now going head out, and sending his spout before him in a continual
moo moooo mooo moo, moo moooooo moo moooo mooooo moo mo m moooooooo

tormented jet; while his one poor fin beat his side in an agony of
moooooooo moo; moooo moo moo mooo moo mooo moo mooo mo mo moooo mo

fright. Now to this hand, now to that, he yawed in his faltering flight,
mooooo. Moo mo mooo mooo, moo mo mooo, mo moooo mo moo moooooooo mooooo,

and still at every billow that he broke, he spasmodically sank in the
moo moooo mo moooo mooooo mooo mo moooo, mo moooooooooooo mooo mo moo

sea, or sideways rolled towards the sky his one beating fin. So have I
moo, mo mooooooo mooooo moooooo moo moo moo moo moooooo moo. Mo mooo M

seen a bird with clipped wing making affrighted broken circles in the
mooo m mooo mooo moooooo mooo mooooo mooooooooo mooooo moooooo mo moo

air, vainly striving to escape the piratical hawks. But the bird has a
moo, mooooo mooooooo mo mooooo moo moooooooo moooo. Moo moo mooo moo m

voice, and with plaintive cries will make known her fear; but the fear
moooo, moo mooo moooooooo moooo mooo mooo moooo moo mooo; moo moo mooo

of this vast dumb brute of the sea, was chained up and enchanted in him;
mo mooo mooo mooo moooo mo moo moo, moo moooooo mo moo moooooooo mo moo;

he had no voice, save that choking respiration through his spiracle,
mo moo mo moooo, mooo mooo moooooo moooooooooo moooooo moo mooooooo,

and this made the sight of him unspeakably pitiable; while still, in his
moo mooo mooo moo moooo mo moo moooooooooo mooooooo; moooo moooo, mo moo

amazing bulk, portcullis jaw, and omnipotent tail, there was enough to
moooooo mooo, mooooooooo moo, moo mooooooooo mooo, moooo moo mooooo mo

appal the stoutest man who so pitied.
moooo moo mooooooo moo moo mo mooooo.




Seeing now that but a very few moments more would give the Pequod's
Mooooo moo mooo moo m mooo moo moooooo mooo moooo mooo moo Mooooo'm

boats the advantage, and rather than be thus foiled of his game, Derick
moooo moo moooooooo, moo mooooo mooo mo mooo mooooo mo moo mooo, Mooooo

chose to hazard what to him must have seemed a most unusually long dart,
moooo mo mooooo mooo mo moo mooo mooo mooooo m mooo moooooooo mooo mooo,

ere the last chance would for ever escape.
moo moo mooo mooooo moooo moo mooo mooooo.




But no sooner did his harpooneer stand up for the stroke, than all three
Moo mo mooooo moo moo mooooooooo moooo mo moo moo mooooo, mooo moo moooo

tigers--Queequeg, Tashtego, Daggoo--instinctively sprang to their feet,
mooooo--Mooooooo, Mooooooo, Mooooo--moooooooooooo mooooo mo moooo mooo,

and standing in a diagonal row, simultaneously pointed their barbs; and
moo mooooooo mo m mooooooo moo, mooooooooooooo moooooo moooo moooo; moo

darted over the head of the German harpooneer, their three Nantucket
mooooo mooo moo mooo mo moo Mooooo mooooooooo, moooo moooo Moooooooo

irons entered the whale. Blinding vapours of foam and white-fire! The
moooo moooooo moo moooo. Mooooooo moooooo mo mooo moo moooo-mooo! Moo

three boats, in the first fury of the whale's headlong rush, bumped
moooo moooo, mo moo moooo mooo mo moo moooo'm mooooooo mooo, mooooo

the German's aside with such force, that both Derick and his baffled
moo Mooooo'm moooo mooo mooo moooo, mooo mooo Mooooo moo moo moooooo

harpooneer were spilled out, and sailed over by the three flying keels.
mooooooooo mooo moooooo moo, moo mooooo mooo mo moo moooo mooooo moooo.




"Don't be afraid, my butter-boxes," cried Stubb, casting a passing
"Moo'm mo mooooo, mo mooooo-moooo," moooo Moooo, moooooo m moooooo

glance upon them as he shot by; "ye'll be picked up presently--all
mooooo mooo mooo mo mo mooo mo; "mo'mo mo mooooo mo moooooooo--moo

right--I saw some sharks astern--St. Bernard's dogs, you know--relieve
moooo--M moo mooo mooooo mooooo--Mo. Moooooo'm mooo, moo mooo--moooooo

distressed travellers. Hurrah! this is the way to sail now. Every keel a
mooooooooo mooooooooo. Mooooo! mooo mo moo moo mo mooo moo. Moooo mooo m

sunbeam! Hurrah!--Here we go like three tin kettles at the tail of a mad
moooooo! Mooooo!--Mooo mo mo mooo moooo moo moooooo mo moo mooo mo m moo

cougar! This puts me in mind of fastening to an elephant in a tilbury on
mooooo! Mooo mooo mo mo mooo mo moooooooo mo mo mooooooo mo m moooooo mo

a plain--makes the wheel-spokes fly, boys, when you fasten to him that
m moooo--moooo moo moooo-mooooo moo, mooo, mooo moo mooooo mo moo mooo

way; and there's danger of being pitched out too, when you strike a
moo; moo moooo'm mooooo mo moooo moooooo moo moo, mooo moo mooooo m

hill. Hurrah! this is the way a fellow feels when he's going to Davy
mooo. Mooooo! mooo mo moo moo m mooooo moooo mooo mo'm moooo mo Mooo

Jones--all a rush down an endless inclined plane! Hurrah! this whale
Moooo--moo m mooo mooo mo moooooo mooooooo moooo! Mooooo! mooo moooo

carries the everlasting mail!"
moooooo moo moooooooooo mooo!"




But the monster's run was a brief one. Giving a sudden gasp, he
Moo moo moooooo'm moo moo m moooo moo. Mooooo m mooooo mooo, mo

tumultuously sounded. With a grating rush, the three lines flew round
mooooooooooo moooooo. Mooo m moooooo mooo, moo moooo moooo mooo moooo

the loggerheads with such a force as to gouge deep grooves in them;
moo moooooooooo mooo mooo m moooo mo mo moooo mooo moooooo mo mooo;

while so fearful were the harpooneers that this rapid sounding would
moooo mo moooooo mooo moo moooooooooo mooo mooo moooo mooooooo moooo

soon exhaust the lines, that using all their dexterous might, they
mooo moooooo moo moooo, mooo moooo moo moooo moooooooo moooo, mooo

caught repeated smoking turns with the rope to hold on; till at
mooooo mooooooo moooooo moooo mooo moo mooo mo mooo mo; mooo mo

last--owing to the perpendicular strain from the lead-lined chocks of
mooo--moooo mo moo moooooooooooo mooooo mooo moo mooo-moooo mooooo mo

the boats, whence the three ropes went straight down into the blue--the
moo moooo, mooooo moo moooo moooo mooo mooooooo mooo mooo moo mooo--moo

gunwales of the bows were almost even with the water, while the three
mooooooo mo moo mooo mooo mooooo mooo mooo moo moooo, moooo moo moooo

sterns tilted high in the air. And the whale soon ceasing to sound,
mooooo mooooo mooo mo moo moo. Moo moo moooo mooo moooooo mo moooo,

for some time they remained in that attitude, fearful of expending more
moo mooo mooo mooo mooooooo mo mooo mooooooo, moooooo mo moooooooo mooo

line, though the position was a little ticklish. But though boats have
mooo, mooooo moo mooooooo moo m mooooo mooooooo. Moo mooooo moooo mooo

been taken down and lost in this way, yet it is this "holding on," as it
mooo moooo mooo moo mooo mo mooo moo, moo mo mo mooo "moooooo mo," mo mo

is called; this hooking up by the sharp barbs of his live flesh from
mo mooooo; mooo moooooo mo mo moo moooo moooo mo moo mooo moooo mooo

the back; this it is that often torments the Leviathan into soon rising
moo mooo; mooo mo mo mooo moooo mooooooo moo Moooooooo mooo mooo mooooo

again to meet the sharp lance of his foes. Yet not to speak of the peril
moooo mo mooo moo moooo moooo mo moo mooo. Moo moo mo moooo mo moo moooo

of the thing, it is to be doubted whether this course is always the
mo moo moooo, mo mo mo mo moooooo moooooo mooo mooooo mo mooooo moo

best; for it is but reasonable to presume, that the longer the stricken
mooo; moo mo mo moo mooooooooo mo moooooo, mooo moo mooooo moo mooooooo

whale stays under water, the more he is exhausted. Because, owing to the
moooo moooo moooo moooo, moo mooo mo mo moooooooo. Moooooo, moooo mo moo

enormous surface of him--in a full grown sperm whale something less than
mooooooo moooooo mo moo--mo m mooo moooo moooo moooo moooooooo mooo mooo

2000 square feet--the pressure of the water is immense. We all know
mooo mooooo mooo--moo mooooooo mo moo moooo mo moooooo. Mo moo mooo

what an astonishing atmospheric weight we ourselves stand up under; even
mooo mo moooooooooo moooooooooo mooooo mo moooooooo moooo mo moooo; mooo

here, above-ground, in the air; how vast, then, the burden of a whale,
mooo, moooo-mooooo, mo moo moo; moo mooo, mooo, moo mooooo mo m moooo,

bearing on his back a column of two hundred fathoms of ocean! It must at
moooooo mo moo mooo m mooooo mo moo moooooo moooooo mo moooo! Mo mooo mo

least equal the weight of fifty atmospheres. One whaleman has estimated
moooo moooo moo mooooo mo moooo moooooooooo. Moo mooooooo moo moooooooo

it at the weight of twenty line-of-battle ships, with all their guns,
mo mo moo mooooo mo mooooo mooo-mo-mooooo moooo, mooo moo moooo mooo,

and stores, and men on board.
moo mooooo, moo moo mo moooo.




As the three boats lay there on that gently rolling sea, gazing down
Mo moo moooo moooo moo moooo mo mooo mooooo moooooo moo, mooooo mooo

into its eternal blue noon; and as not a single groan or cry of any
mooo moo moooooo mooo mooo; moo mo moo m mooooo moooo mo moo mo moo

sort, nay, not so much as a ripple or a bubble came up from its depths;
mooo, moo, moo mo mooo mo m mooooo mo m mooooo mooo mo mooo moo mooooo;

what landsman would have thought, that beneath all that silence and
mooo mooooooo moooo mooo moooooo, mooo moooooo moo mooo moooooo moo

placidity, the utmost monster of the seas was writhing and wrenching in
moooooooo, moo mooooo moooooo mo moo mooo moo mooooooo moo moooooooo mo

agony! Not eight inches of perpendicular rope were visible at the bows.
moooo! Moo moooo mooooo mo moooooooooooo mooo mooo moooooo mo moo mooo.

Seems it credible that by three such thin threads the great Leviathan
Moooo mo mooooooo mooo mo moooo mooo mooo moooooo moo moooo Moooooooo

was suspended like the big weight to an eight day clock. Suspended? and
moo moooooooo mooo moo moo mooooo mo mo moooo moo moooo. Moooooooo? moo

to what? To three bits of board. Is this the creature of whom it was
mo mooo? Mo moooo mooo mo moooo. Mo mooo moo mooooooo mo mooo mo moo

once so triumphantly said--"Canst thou fill his skin with barbed irons?
mooo mo mooooooooooo mooo--"Moooo mooo mooo moo mooo mooo mooooo moooo?

or his head with fish-spears? The sword of him that layeth at him cannot
mo moo mooo mooo mooo-mooooo? Moo moooo mo moo mooo mooooo mo moo mooooo

hold, the spear, the dart, nor the habergeon: he esteemeth iron as
mooo, moo moooo, moo mooo, moo moo moooooooo: mo moooooooo mooo mo

straw; the arrow cannot make him flee; darts are counted as stubble;
moooo; moo moooo mooooo mooo moo mooo; moooo moo moooooo mo moooooo;

he laugheth at the shaking of a spear!" This the creature? this he? Oh!
mo mooooooo mo moo moooooo mo m moooo!" Mooo moo mooooooo? mooo mo? Mo!

that unfulfilments should follow the prophets. For with the strength
mooo moooooooooooo mooooo mooooo moo mooooooo. Moo mooo moo mooooooo

of a thousand thighs in his tail, Leviathan had run his head under the
mo m mooooooo mooooo mo moo mooo, Moooooooo moo moo moo mooo moooo moo

mountains of the sea, to hide him from the Pequod's fish-spears!
moooooooo mo moo moo, mo mooo moo mooo moo Mooooo'm mooo-mooooo!




In that sloping afternoon sunlight, the shadows that the three boats
Mo mooo moooooo moooooooo mooooooo, moo moooooo mooo moo moooo moooo

sent down beneath the surface, must have been long enough and broad
mooo mooo moooooo moo moooooo, mooo mooo mooo mooo mooooo moo moooo

enough to shade half Xerxes' army. Who can tell how appalling to the
mooooo mo moooo mooo Mooooo' mooo. Moo moo mooo moo moooooooo mo moo

wounded whale must have been such huge phantoms flitting over his head!
moooooo moooo mooo mooo mooo mooo mooo mooooooo mooooooo mooo moo mooo!




"Stand by, men; he stirs," cried Starbuck, as the three lines suddenly
"Moooo mo, moo; mo moooo," moooo Mooooooo, mo moo moooo moooo mooooooo

vibrated in the water, distinctly conducting upwards to them, as by
mooooooo mo moo moooo, mooooooooo mooooooooo moooooo mo mooo, mo mo

magnetic wires, the life and death throbs of the whale, so that every
mooooooo moooo, moo mooo moo moooo mooooo mo moo moooo, mo mooo moooo

oarsman felt them in his seat. The next moment, relieved in great part
moooooo mooo mooo mo moo mooo. Moo mooo mooooo, mooooooo mo moooo mooo

from the downward strain at the bows, the boats gave a sudden bounce
mooo moo mooooooo mooooo mo moo mooo, moo moooo mooo m mooooo mooooo

upwards, as a small icefield will, when a dense herd of white bears are
moooooo, mo m moooo mooooooo mooo, mooo m moooo mooo mo moooo moooo moo

scared from it into the sea.
mooooo mooo mo mooo moo moo.




"Haul in! Haul in!" cried Starbuck again; "he's rising."
"Mooo mo! Mooo mo!" moooo Mooooooo moooo; "mo'm mooooo."




The lines, of which, hardly an instant before, not one hand's breadth
Moo moooo, mo moooo, mooooo mo moooooo mooooo, moo moo mooo'm moooooo

could have been gained, were now in long quick coils flung back all
moooo mooo mooo mooooo, mooo moo mo mooo moooo moooo moooo mooo moo

dripping into the boats, and soon the whale broke water within two
mooooooo mooo moo moooo, moo mooo moo moooo moooo moooo mooooo moo

ship's lengths of the hunters.
mooo'm moooooo mo moo moooooo.




His motions plainly denoted his extreme exhaustion. In most land animals
Moo moooooo moooooo moooooo moo moooooo mooooooooo. Mo mooo mooo moooooo

there are certain valves or flood-gates in many of their veins, whereby
moooo moo moooooo mooooo mo moooo-moooo mo mooo mo moooo moooo, moooooo

when wounded, the blood is in some degree at least instantly shut off in
mooo moooooo, moo moooo mo mo mooo mooooo mo moooo moooooooo mooo moo mo

certain directions. Not so with the whale; one of whose peculiarities
moooooo mooooooooo. Moo mo mooo moo moooo; moo mo moooo moooooooooooo

it is to have an entire non-valvular structure of the blood-vessels, so
mo mo mo mooo mo mooooo moo-mooooooo moooooooo mo moo moooo-moooooo, mo

that when pierced even by so small a point as a harpoon, a deadly
mooo mooo moooooo mooo mo mo moooo m moooo mo m moooooo, m mooooo

drain is at once begun upon his whole arterial system; and when this is
moooo mo mo mooo moooo mooo moo moooo mooooooo mooooo; moo mooo mooo mo

heightened by the extraordinary pressure of water at a great distance
mooooooooo mo moo moooooooooooo mooooooo mo moooo mo m moooo mooooooo

below the surface, his life may be said to pour from him in incessant
moooo moo moooooo, moo mooo moo mo mooo mo mooo mooo moo mo moooooooo

streams. Yet so vast is the quantity of blood in him, and so distant
moooooo. Moo mo mooo mo moo mooooooo mo moooo mo moo, moo mo moooooo

and numerous its interior fountains, that he will keep thus bleeding and
moo mooooooo moo mooooooo moooooooo, mooo mo mooo mooo mooo mooooooo moo

bleeding for a considerable period; even as in a drought a river will
mooooooo moo m mooooooooooo mooooo; mooo mo mo m moooooo m moooo mooo

flow, whose source is in the well-springs of far-off and undiscernible
mooo, moooo mooooo mo mo moo mooo-moooooo mo moo-moo moo moooooooooooo

hills. Even now, when the boats pulled upon this whale, and perilously
moooo. Mooo moo, mooo moo moooo mooooo mooo mooo moooo, moo mooooooooo

drew over his swaying flukes, and the lances were darted into him,
mooo mooo moo moooooo mooooo, moo moo mooooo mooo mooooo mooo moo,

they were followed by steady jets from the new made wound, which kept
mooo mooo mooooooo mo mooooo mooo mooo moo moo mooo moooo, moooo mooo

continually playing, while the natural spout-hole in his head was only
moooooooooo moooooo, moooo moo moooooo moooo-mooo mo moo mooo moo mooo

at intervals, however rapid, sending its affrighted moisture into the
mo moooooooo, moooooo moooo, moooooo moo mooooooooo mooooooo mooo moo

air. From this last vent no blood yet came, because no vital part of him
moo. Mooo mooo mooo mooo mo moooo moo mooo, moooooo mo moooo mooo mo moo

had thus far been struck. His life, as they significantly call it, was
moo mooo moo mooo mooooo. Moo mooo, mo mooo moooooooooooo mooo mo, moo

untouched.
moooooooo.




As the boats now more closely surrounded him, the whole upper part of
Mo moo moooo moo mooo moooooo mooooooooo moo, moo moooo moooo mooo mo

his form, with much of it that is ordinarily submerged, was plainly
moo mooo, mooo mooo mo mo mooo mo mooooooooo moooooooo, moo moooooo

revealed. His eyes, or rather the places where his eyes had been, were
mooooooo. Moo mooo, mo mooooo moo mooooo moooo moo mooo moo mooo, mooo

beheld. As strange misgrown masses gather in the knot-holes of the
mooooo. Mo moooooo mooooooo mooooo mooooo mo moo mooo-moooo mo moo

noblest oaks when prostrate, so from the points which the whale's eyes
moooooo mooo mooo moooooooo, mo mooo moo mooooo moooo moo moooo'm mooo

had once occupied, now protruded blind bulbs, horribly pitiable to see.
moo mooo mooooooo, moo moooooooo moooo moooo, mooooooo mooooooo mo moo.

But pity there was none. For all his old age, and his one arm, and his
Moo mooo moooo moo mooo. Moo moo moo moo moo, moo moo moo moo, moo moo

blind eyes, he must die the death and be murdered, in order to light the
moooo mooo, mo mooo moo moo moooo moo mo mooooooo, mo moooo mo moooo moo

gay bridals and other merry-makings of men, and also to illuminate the
moo moooooo moo moooo moooo-moooooo mo moo, moo mooo mo mooooooooo moo

solemn churches that preach unconditional inoffensiveness by all to all.
mooooo mooooooo mooo mooooo moooooooooooo moooooooooooooo mo moo mo moo.

Still rolling in his blood, at last he partially disclosed a strangely
Moooo moooooo mo moo moooo, mo mooo mo moooooooo moooooooo m moooooooo

discoloured bunch or protuberance, the size of a bushel, low down on the
moooooooooo moooo mo mooooooooooo, moo mooo mo m mooooo, moo mooo mo moo

flank.
moooo.




"A nice spot," cried Flask; "just let me prick him there once."
"M mooo mooo," moooo Moooo; "mooo moo mo moooo moo moooo mooo."




"Avast!" cried Starbuck, "there's no need of that!"
"Moooo!" moooo Mooooooo, "moooo'm mo mooo mo mooo!"




But humane Starbuck was too late. At the instant of the dart an
Moo mooooo Mooooooo moo moo mooo. Mo moo moooooo mo moo mooo mo

ulcerous jet shot from this cruel wound, and goaded by it into more than
mooooooo moo mooo mooo mooo moooo moooo, moo mooooo mo mo mooo mooo mooo

sufferable anguish, the whale now spouting thick blood, with swift fury
mooooooooo moooooo, moo moooo moo mooooooo moooo moooo, mooo moooo mooo

blindly darted at the craft, bespattering them and their glorying crews
moooooo mooooo mo moo moooo, mooooooooooo mooo moo moooo mooooooo moooo

all over with showers of gore, capsizing Flask's boat and marring the
moo mooo mooo moooooo mo mooo, moooooooo Moooo'm mooo moo moooooo moo

bows. It was his death stroke. For, by this time, so spent was he by
mooo. Mo moo moo moooo mooooo. Moo, mo mooo mooo, mo moooo moo mo mo

loss of blood, that he helplessly rolled away from the wreck he had
mooo mo moooo, mooo mo mooooooooo mooooo mooo mooo moo moooo mo moo

made; lay panting on his side, impotently flapped with his stumped fin,
mooo; moo moooooo mo moo mooo, mooooooooo moooooo mooo moo moooooo moo,

then over and over slowly revolved like a waning world; turned up
mooo mooo moo mooo mooooo mooooooo mooo m mooooo moooo; mooooo mo

the white secrets of his belly; lay like a log, and died. It was most
moo moooo moooooo mo moo moooo; moo mooo m moo, moo mooo. Mo moo mooo

piteous, that last expiring spout. As when by unseen hands the water
moooooo, mooo mooo mooooooo moooo. Mo mooo mo mooooo moooo moo moooo

is gradually drawn off from some mighty fountain, and with half-stifled
mo moooooooo moooo moo mooo mooo mooooo mooooooo, moo mooo mooo-moooooo

melancholy gurglings the spray-column lowers and lowers to the
mooooooooo moooooooo moo moooo-mooooo mooooo moo mooooo mo moo

ground--so the last long dying spout of the whale.
mooooo--mo moo mooo mooo moooo moooo mo moo moooo.




Soon, while the crews were awaiting the arrival of the ship, the body
Mooo, moooo moo moooo mooo mooooooo moo moooooo mo moo mooo, moo mooo

showed symptoms of sinking with all its treasures unrifled. Immediately,
mooooo mooooooo mo moooooo mooo moo moo moooooooo mooooooo. Moooooooooo,

by Starbuck's orders, lines were secured to it at different points, so
mo Mooooooo'm mooooo, moooo mooo moooooo mo mo mo moooooooo mooooo, mo

that ere long every boat was a buoy; the sunken whale being suspended a
mooo moo mooo moooo mooo moo m mooo; moo mooooo moooo moooo moooooooo m

few inches beneath them by the cords. By very heedful management, when
moo mooooo moooooo mooo mo moo moooo. Mo mooo moooooo mooooooooo, mooo

the ship drew nigh, the whale was transferred to her side, and was
moo mooo mooo mooo, moo moooo moo moooooooooo mo moo mooo, moo moo

strongly secured there by the stiffest fluke-chains, for it was plain
mooooooo moooooo moooo mo moo mooooooo moooo-mooooo, moo mo moo moooo

that unless artificially upheld, the body would at once sink to the
mooo mooooo mooooooooooo mooooo, moo mooo moooo mo mooo mooo mo moo

bottom.
mooooo.




It so chanced that almost upon first cutting into him with the spade,
Mo mo moooooo mooo mooooo mooo moooo moooooo mooo moo mooo moo moooo,

the entire length of a corroded harpoon was found imbedded in his flesh,
moo mooooo mooooo mo m mooooooo moooooo moo moooo mooooooo mo moo moooo,

on the lower part of the bunch before described. But as the stumps of
mo moo moooo mooo mo moo moooo mooooo moooooooo. Moo mo moo mooooo mo

harpoons are frequently found in the dead bodies of captured whales,
mooooooo moo mooooooooo moooo mo moo mooo mooooo mo mooooooo mooooo,

with the flesh perfectly healed around them, and no prominence of any
mooo moo moooo moooooooo mooooo mooooo mooo, moo mo mooooooooo mo moo

kind to denote their place; therefore, there must needs have been
mooo mo mooooo moooo moooo; moooooooo, moooo mooo moooo mooo mooo

some other unknown reason in the present case fully to account for
mooo moooo moooooo mooooo mo moo moooooo mooo moooo mo moooooo moo

the ulceration alluded to. But still more curious was the fact of a
moo mooooooooo moooooo mo. Moo moooo mooo moooooo moo moo mooo mo m

lance-head of stone being found in him, not far from the buried iron,
moooo-mooo mo moooo moooo moooo mo moo, moo moo mooo moo mooooo mooo,

the flesh perfectly firm about it. Who had darted that stone lance? And
moo moooo moooooooo mooo moooo mo. Moo moo mooooo mooo moooo moooo? Moo

when? It might have been darted by some Nor' West Indian long before
mooo? Mo moooo mooo mooo mooooo mo mooo Moo' Mooo Mooooo mooo mooooo

America was discovered.
Moooooo moo mooooooooo.




What other marvels might have been rummaged out of this monstrous
Mooo moooo moooooo moooo mooo mooo mooooooo moo mo mooo moooooooo

cabinet there is no telling. But a sudden stop was put to further
moooooo moooo mo mo moooooo. Moo m mooooo mooo moo moo mo moooooo

discoveries, by the ship's being unprecedentedly dragged over sideways
moooooooooo, mo moo mooo'm moooo moooooooooooooo moooooo mooo mooooooo

to the sea, owing to the body's immensely increasing tendency to sink.
mo moo moo, moooo mo moo mooo'm moooooooo mooooooooo mooooooo mo mooo.

However, Starbuck, who had the ordering of affairs, hung on to it to the
Moooooo, Mooooooo, moo moo moo mooooooo mo moooooo, mooo mo mo mo mo moo

last; hung on to it so resolutely, indeed, that when at length the ship
mooo; mooo mo mo mo mo mooooooooo, mooooo, mooo mooo mo mooooo moo mooo

would have been capsized, if still persisting in locking arms with the
moooo mooo mooo mooooooo, mo moooo mooooooooo mo moooooo mooo mooo moo

body; then, when the command was given to break clear from it, such was
mooo; mooo, mooo moo moooooo moo moooo mo moooo moooo mooo mo, mooo moo

the immovable strain upon the timber-heads to which the fluke-chains and
moo moooooooo mooooo mooo moo mooooo-moooo mo moooo moo moooo-mooooo moo

cables were fastened, that it was impossible to cast them off. Meantime
mooooo mooo mooooooo, mooo mo moo mooooooooo mo mooo mooo moo. Mooooooo

everything in the Pequod was aslant. To cross to the other side of the
mooooooooo mo moo Mooooo moo mooooo. Mo moooo mo moo moooo mooo mo moo

deck was like walking up the steep gabled roof of a house. The ship
mooo moo mooo moooooo mo moo moooo mooooo mooo mo m moooo. Moo mooo

groaned and gasped. Many of the ivory inlayings of her bulwarks and
moooooo moo mooooo. Mooo mo moo moooo moooooooo mo moo mooooooo moo

cabins were started from their places, by the unnatural dislocation.
mooooo mooo moooooo mooo moooo mooooo, mo moo moooooooo moooooooooo.

In vain handspikes and crows were brought to bear upon the immovable
Mo mooo mooooooooo moo moooo mooo moooooo mo mooo mooo moo moooooooo

fluke-chains, to pry them adrift from the timberheads; and so low
moooo-mooooo, mo moo mooo mooooo mooo moo moooooooooo; moo mo moo

had the whale now settled that the submerged ends could not be at all
moo moo moooo moo moooooo mooo moo moooooooo mooo moooo moo mo mo moo

approached, while every moment whole tons of ponderosity seemed added to
mooooooooo, moooo moooo mooooo moooo mooo mo moooooooooo mooooo moooo mo

the sinking bulk, and the ship seemed on the point of going over.
moo moooooo mooo, moo moo mooo mooooo mo moo moooo mo moooo mooo.




"Hold on, hold on, won't ye?" cried Stubb to the body, "don't be in such
"Mooo mo, mooo mo, moo'm mo?" moooo Moooo mo moo mooo, "moo'm mo mo mooo

a devil of a hurry to sink! By thunder, men, we must do something or go
m moooo mo m moooo mo mooo! Mo moooooo, moo, mo mooo mo moooooooo mo mo

for it. No use prying there; avast, I say with your handspikes, and run
moo mo. Mo moo mooooo moooo; moooo, M moo mooo mooo mooooooooo, moo moo

one of ye for a prayer book and a pen-knife, and cut the big chains."
moo mo mo moo m mooooo mooo moo m moo-moooo, moo moo moo moo mooooo."




"Knife? Aye, aye," cried Queequeg, and seizing the carpenter's heavy
"Moooo? Moo, moo," moooo Mooooooo, moo moooooo moo moooooooo'm moooo

hatchet, he leaned out of a porthole, and steel to iron, began slashing
moooooo, mo mooooo moo mo m mooooooo, moo moooo mo mooo, moooo mooooooo

at the largest fluke-chains. But a few strokes, full of sparks, were
mo moo moooooo moooo-mooooo. Moo m moo moooooo, mooo mo mooooo, mooo

given, when the exceeding strain effected the rest. With a terrific
moooo, mooo moo moooooooo mooooo mooooooo moo mooo. Mooo m mooooooo

snap, every fastening went adrift; the ship righted, the carcase sank.
mooo, moooo moooooooo mooo mooooo; moo mooo moooooo, moo moooooo mooo.




Now, this occasional inevitable sinking of the recently killed Sperm
Moo, mooo mooooooooo mooooooooo moooooo mo moo mooooooo mooooo Moooo

Whale is a very curious thing; nor has any fisherman yet adequately
Moooo mo m mooo moooooo moooo; moo moo moo moooooooo moo mooooooooo

accounted for it. Usually the dead Sperm Whale floats with great
moooooooo moo mo. Moooooo moo mooo Moooo Moooo mooooo mooo moooo

buoyancy, with its side or belly considerably elevated above the
mooooooo, mooo moo mooo mo moooo mooooooooooo mooooooo moooo moo

surface. If the only whales that thus sank were old, meagre, and
moooooo. Mo moo mooo mooooo mooo mooo mooo mooo moo, mooooo, moo

broken-hearted creatures, their pads of lard diminished and all their
mooooo-moooooo moooooooo, moooo mooo mo mooo mooooooooo moo moo moooo

bones heavy and rheumatic; then you might with some reason assert that
moooo moooo moo moooooooo; mooo moo moooo mooo mooo mooooo mooooo mooo

this sinking is caused by an uncommon specific gravity in the fish so
mooo moooooo mo mooooo mo mo mooooooo mooooooo moooooo mo moo mooo mo

sinking, consequent upon this absence of buoyant matter in him. But it
moooooo, mooooooooo mooo mooo moooooo mo moooooo mooooo mo moo. Moo mo

is not so. For young whales, in the highest health, and swelling with
mo moo mo. Moo moooo mooooo, mo moo moooooo mooooo, moo mooooooo mooo

noble aspirations, prematurely cut off in the warm flush and May of
moooo moooooooooo, moooooooooo moo moo mo moo mooo moooo moo Moo mo

life, with all their panting lard about them; even these brawny, buoyant
mooo, mooo moo moooo moooooo mooo moooo mooo; mooo moooo mooooo, moooooo

heroes do sometimes sink.
mooooo mo moooooooo mooo.




Be it said, however, that the Sperm Whale is far less liable to this
Mo mo mooo, moooooo, mooo moo Moooo Moooo mo moo mooo mooooo mo mooo

accident than any other species. Where one of that sort go down, twenty
mooooooo mooo moo moooo moooooo. Moooo moo mo mooo mooo mo mooo, mooooo

Right Whales do. This difference in the species is no doubt imputable in
Moooo Mooooo mo. Mooo mooooooooo mo moo moooooo mo mo moooo moooooooo mo

no small degree to the greater quantity of bone in the Right Whale;
mo moooo mooooo mo moo moooooo mooooooo mo mooo mo moo Moooo Moooo;

his Venetian blinds alone sometimes weighing more than a ton; from this
moo Mooooooo mooooo moooo moooooooo mooooooo mooo mooo m moo; mooo mooo

incumbrance the Sperm Whale is wholly free. But there are instances
moooooooooo moo Moooo Moooo mo mooooo mooo. Moo moooo moo moooooooo

where, after the lapse of many hours or several days, the sunken whale
moooo, moooo moo moooo mo mooo moooo mo moooooo mooo, moo mooooo moooo

again rises, more buoyant than in life. But the reason of this
moooo moooo, mooo moooooo mooo mo mooo. Moo moo mooooo mo mooo

is obvious. Gases are generated in him; he swells to a prodigious
mo moooooo. Moooo moo moooooooo mo moo; mo mooooo mo m mooooooooo

magnitude; becomes a sort of animal balloon. A line-of-battle ship could
moooooooo; moooooo m mooo mo mooooo moooooo. M mooo-mo-mooooo mooo moooo

hardly keep him under then. In the Shore Whaling, on soundings, among
mooooo mooo moo moooo mooo. Mo moo Moooo Moooooo, mo moooooooo, moooo

the Bays of New Zealand, when a Right Whale gives token of sinking, they
moo Mooo mo Moo Moooooo, mooo m Moooo Moooo moooo moooo mo moooooo, mooo

fasten buoys to him, with plenty of rope; so that when the body has gone
mooooo moooo mo moo, mooo mooooo mo mooo; mo mooo mooo moo mooo moo mooo

down, they know where to look for it when it shall have ascended again.
mooo, mooo mooo moooo mo mooo moo mo mooo mo moooo mooo mooooooo moooo.




It was not long after the sinking of the body that a cry was heard from
Mo moo moo mooo moooo moo moooooo mo moo mooo mooo m moo moo moooo mooo

the Pequod's mast-heads, announcing that the Jungfrau was again lowering
moo Mooooo'm mooo-moooo, mooooooooo mooo moo Mooooooo moo moooo mooooooo

her boats; though the only spout in sight was that of a Fin-Back,
moo moooo; mooooo moo mooo moooo mo moooo moo mooo mo m Moo-Mooo,

belonging to the species of uncapturable whales, because of its
moooooooo mo moo moooooo mo mooooooooooo mooooo, moooooo mo moo

incredible power of swimming. Nevertheless, the Fin-Back's spout is so
mooooooooo moooo mo mooooooo. Mooooooooooo, moo Moo-Mooo'm moooo mo mo

similar to the Sperm Whale's, that by unskilful fishermen it is often
moooooo mo moo Moooo Moooo'm, mooo mo moooooooo moooooooo mo mo moooo

mistaken for it. And consequently Derick and all his host were now in
mooooooo moo mo. Moo mooooooooooo Mooooo moo moo moo mooo mooo moo mo

valiant chase of this unnearable brute. The Virgin crowding all sail,
moooooo moooo mo mooo mooooooooo moooo. Moo Mooooo mooooooo moo mooo,

made after her four young keels, and thus they all disappeared far to
mooo moooo moo mooo moooo moooo, moo mooo mooo moo moooooooooo moo mo

leeward, still in bold, hopeful chase.
moooooo, moooo mo mooo, moooooo moooo.




Oh! many are the Fin-Backs, and many are the Dericks, my friend.
Mo! mooo moo moo Moo-Moooo, moo mooo moo moo Moooooo, mo mooooo.










CHAPTER 82. The Honour and Glory of Whaling.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Mooooo moo Moooo mo Moooooo.







There are some enterprises in which a careful disorderliness is the true
Moooo moo mooo moooooooooo mo moooo m moooooo mooooooooooooo mo moo mooo

method.
mooooo.




The more I dive into this matter of whaling, and push my researches up
Moo mooo M mooo mooo mooo mooooo mo moooooo, moo mooo mo mooooooooo mo

to the very spring-head of it so much the more am I impressed with its
mo moo mooo mooooo-mooo mo mo mo mooo moo mooo mo M moooooooo mooo moo

great honourableness and antiquity; and especially when I find so many
moooo mooooooooooooo moo moooooooo; moo mooooooooo mooo M mooo mo mooo

great demi-gods and heroes, prophets of all sorts, who one way or other
moooo mooo-mooo moo mooooo, mooooooo mo moo moooo, moo moo moo mo moooo

have shed distinction upon it, I am transported with the reflection
mooo mooo moooooooooo mooo mo, M mo moooooooooo mooo moo mooooooooo

that I myself belong, though but subordinately, to so emblazoned a
mooo M mooooo mooooo, mooooo moo moooooooooooo, mo mo mooooooooo m

fraternity.
mooooooooo.




The gallant Perseus, a son of Jupiter, was the first whaleman; and
Moo moooooo Moooooo, m moo mo Moooooo, moo moo moooo mooooooo; moo

to the eternal honour of our calling be it said, that the first whale
mo moo moooooo mooooo mo moo moooooo mo mo mooo, mooo moo moooo moooo

attacked by our brotherhood was not killed with any sordid intent. Those
mooooooo mo moo moooooooooo moo moo mooooo mooo moo mooooo mooooo. Moooo

were the knightly days of our profession, when we only bore arms to
mooo moo mooooooo mooo mo moo mooooooooo, mooo mo mooo mooo mooo mo

succor the distressed, and not to fill men's lamp-feeders. Every one
mooooo moo mooooooooo, moo moo mo mooo moo'm mooo-moooooo. Moooo moo

knows the fine story of Perseus and Andromeda; how the lovely Andromeda,
moooo moo mooo moooo mo Moooooo moo Moooooooo; moo moo mooooo Moooooooo,

the daughter of a king, was tied to a rock on the sea-coast, and as
moo mooooooo mo m mooo, moo mooo mo m mooo mo moo moo-moooo, moo mo

Leviathan was in the very act of carrying her off, Perseus, the prince
Moooooooo moo mo moo mooo moo mo mooooooo moo moo, Moooooo, moo mooooo

of whalemen, intrepidly advancing, harpooned the monster, and delivered
mo mooooooo, mooooooooo moooooooo, moooooooo moo moooooo, moo moooooooo

and married the maid. It was an admirable artistic exploit, rarely
moo moooooo moo mooo. Mo moo mo moooooooo mooooooo moooooo, mooooo

achieved by the best harpooneers of the present day; inasmuch as this
mooooooo mo moo mooo moooooooooo mo moo moooooo moo; mooooooo mo mooo

Leviathan was slain at the very first dart. And let no man doubt this
Moooooooo moo moooo mo moo mooo moooo mooo. Moo moo mo moo moooo mooo

Arkite story; for in the ancient Joppa, now Jaffa, on the Syrian coast,
Mooooo moooo; moo mo moo moooooo Moooo, moo Moooo, mo moo Mooooo moooo,

in one of the Pagan temples, there stood for many ages the vast skeleton
mo moo mo moo Moooo moooooo, moooo moooo moo mooo mooo moo mooo mooooooo

of a whale, which the city's legends and all the inhabitants asserted to
mo m moooo, moooo moo mooo'm moooooo moo moo moo moooooooooo mooooooo mo

be the identical bones of the monster that Perseus slew. When the Romans
mo moo moooooooo moooo mo moo moooooo mooo Moooooo mooo. Mooo moo Mooooo

took Joppa, the same skeleton was carried to Italy in triumph. What
mooo Moooo, moo mooo mooooooo moo moooooo mo Moooo mo moooooo. Mooo

seems most singular and suggestively important in this story, is this:
moooo mooo mooooooo moo mooooooooooo moooooooo mo mooo moooo, mo mooo:

it was from Joppa that Jonah set sail.
mo moo mooo Moooo mooo Moooo moo mooo.




Akin to the adventure of Perseus and Andromeda--indeed, by some supposed
Mooo mo moo moooooooo mo Moooooo moo Moooooooo--mooooo, mo mooo mooooooo

to be indirectly derived from it--is that famous story of St. George and
mo mo mooooooooo moooooo mooo mo--mo mooo mooooo moooo mo Mo. Mooooo moo

the Dragon; which dragon I maintain to have been a whale; for in many
moo Mooooo; moooo mooooo M mooooooo mo mooo mooo m moooo; moo mo mooo

old chronicles whales and dragons are strangely jumbled together, and
moo mooooooooo mooooo moo moooooo moo moooooooo moooooo mooooooo, moo

often stand for each other. "Thou art as a lion of the waters, and as a
moooo moooo moo mooo moooo. "Mooo moo mo m mooo mo moo mooooo, moo mo m

dragon of the sea," saith Ezekiel; hereby, plainly meaning a whale;
mooooo mo moo moo," moooo Moooooo; mooooo, moooooo moooooo m moooo;

in truth, some versions of the Bible use that word itself. Besides, it
mo moooo, mooo mooooooo mo moo Moooo moo mooo mooo mooooo. Moooooo, mo

would much subtract from the glory of the exploit had St. George but
moooo mooo mooooooo mooo moo moooo mo moo moooooo moo Mo. Mooooo moo

encountered a crawling reptile of the land, instead of doing battle
moooooooooo m mooooooo moooooo mo moo mooo, moooooo mo moooo mooooo

with the great monster of the deep. Any man may kill a snake, but only a
mooo moo moooo moooooo mo moo mooo. Moo moo moo mooo m moooo, moo mooo m

Perseus, a St. George, a Coffin, have the heart in them to march boldly
Moooooo, m Mo. Mooooo, m Mooooo, mooo moo moooo mo mooo mo moooo mooooo

up to a whale.
mo mo m moooo.




Let not the modern paintings of this scene mislead us; for though
Moo moo moo mooooo moooooooo mo mooo moooo moooooo mo; moo mooooo

the creature encountered by that valiant whaleman of old is vaguely
moo mooooooo moooooooooo mo mooo moooooo mooooooo mo moo mo moooooo

represented of a griffin-like shape, and though the battle is depicted
moooooooooo mo m moooooo-mooo moooo, moo mooooo moo mooooo mo mooooooo

on land and the saint on horseback, yet considering the great ignorance
mo mooo moo moo moooo mo moooooooo, moo moooooooooo moo moooo moooooooo

of those times, when the true form of the whale was unknown to artists;
mo moooo moooo, mooo moo mooo mooo mo moo moooo moo moooooo mo moooooo;

and considering that as in Perseus' case, St. George's whale might have
moo moooooooooo mooo mo mo Moooooo' mooo, Mo. Mooooo'm moooo moooo mooo

crawled up out of the sea on the beach; and considering that the animal
moooooo mo moo mo moo moo mo moo moooo; moo moooooooooo mooo moo mooooo

ridden by St. George might have been only a large seal, or sea-horse;
mooooo mo Mo. Mooooo moooo mooo mooo mooo m moooo mooo, mo moo-moooo;

bearing all this in mind, it will not appear altogether incompatible
moooooo moo mooo mo mooo, mo mooo moo mooooo mooooooooo mooooooooooo

with the sacred legend and the ancientest draughts of the scene, to
mooo moo mooooo mooooo moo moo mooooooooo mooooooo mo moo moooo, mo

hold this so-called dragon no other than the great Leviathan himself. In
mooo mooo mo-mooooo mooooo mo moooo mooo moo moooo Moooooooo moooooo. Mo

fact, placed before the strict and piercing truth, this whole story will
mooo, mooooo mooooo moo mooooo moo mooooooo moooo, mooo moooo moooo mooo

fare like that fish, flesh, and fowl idol of the Philistines, Dagon by
mooo mooo mooo mooo, moooo, moo mooo mooo mo moo Moooooooooo, Moooo mo

name; who being planted before the ark of Israel, his horse's head and
mooo; moo moooo moooooo mooooo moo moo mo Mooooo, moo moooo'm mooo moo

both the palms of his hands fell off from him, and only the stump or
mooo moo moooo mo moo moooo mooo moo mooo moo, moo mooo moo moooo mo

fishy part of him remained. Thus, then, one of our own noble stamp, even
moooo mooo mo moo mooooooo. Mooo, mooo, moo mo moo moo moooo moooo, mooo

a whaleman, is the tutelary guardian of England; and by good rights, we
m mooooooo, mo moo mooooooo mooooooo mo Moooooo; moo mo mooo mooooo, mo

harpooneers of Nantucket should be enrolled in the most noble order
moooooooooo mo Moooooooo mooooo mo mooooooo mo moo mooo moooo moooo

of St. George. And therefore, let not the knights of that honourable
mo Mo. Mooooo. Moo moooooooo, moo moo moo moooooo mo mooo mooooooooo

company (none of whom, I venture to say, have ever had to do with a
moooooo (mooo mo mooo, M moooooo mo moo, mooo mooo moo mo mo mooo m

whale like their great patron), let them never eye a Nantucketer with
moooo mooo moooo moooo mooooo), moo mooo moooo moo m Moooooooooo mooo

disdain, since even in our woollen frocks and tarred trowsers we are
moooooo, moooo mooo mo moo moooooo mooooo moo mooooo mooooooo mo moo

much better entitled to St. George's decoration than they.
mooo mooooo mooooooo mo Mo. Mooooo'm mooooooooo mooo mooo.




Whether to admit Hercules among us or not, concerning this I long
Moooooo mo moooo Mooooooo moooo mo mo moo, mooooooooo mooo M mooo

remained dubious: for though according to the Greek mythologies, that
mooooooo moooooo: moo mooooo moooooooo mo moo Moooo moooooooooo, mooo

antique Crockett and Kit Carson--that brawny doer of rejoicing good
moooooo Mooooooo moo Moo Mooooo--mooo mooooo mooo mo moooooooo mooo

deeds, was swallowed down and thrown up by a whale; still, whether
moooo, moo moooooooo mooo moo mooooo mo mo m moooo; moooo, moooooo

that strictly makes a whaleman of him, that might be mooted. It nowhere
mooo mooooooo moooo m mooooooo mo moo, mooo moooo mo mooooo. Mo moooooo

appears that he ever actually harpooned his fish, unless, indeed,
moooooo mooo mo mooo mooooooo moooooooo moo mooo, mooooo, mooooo,

from the inside. Nevertheless, he may be deemed a sort of involuntary
mooo moo mooooo. Mooooooooooo, mo moo mo mooooo m mooo mo moooooooooo

whaleman; at any rate the whale caught him, if he did not the whale. I
mooooooo; mo moo mooo moo moooo mooooo moo, mo mo moo moo moo moooo. M

claim him for one of our clan.
moooo moo moo moo mo moo mooo.




But, by the best contradictory authorities, this Grecian story of
Moo, mo moo mooo moooooooooooo moooooooooo, mooo Moooooo moooo mo

Hercules and the whale is considered to be derived from the still more
Mooooooo moo moo moooo mo mooooooooo mo mo moooooo mooo moo moooo mooo

ancient Hebrew story of Jonah and the whale; and vice versa; certainly
moooooo Mooooo moooo mo Moooo moo moo moooo; moo mooo moooo; moooooooo

they are very similar. If I claim the demigod then, why not the prophet?
mooo moo mooo moooooo. Mo M moooo moo moooooo mooo, moo moo moo moooooo?




Nor do heroes, saints, demigods, and prophets alone comprise the whole
Moo mo mooooo, mooooo, mooooooo, moo mooooooo moooo mooooooo moo moooo

roll of our order. Our grand master is still to be named; for like royal
mooo mo moo moooo. Moo moooo mooooo mo moooo mo mo moooo; moo mooo moooo

kings of old times, we find the head waters of our fraternity in nothing
moooo mo moo moooo, mo mooo moo mooo mooooo mo moo mooooooooo mo moooooo

short of the great gods themselves. That wondrous oriental story is now
moooo mo moo moooo mooo mooooooooo. Mooo mooooooo mooooooo moooo mo moo

to be rehearsed from the Shaster, which gives us the dread Vishnoo, one
mo mo moooooooo mooo moo Moooooo, moooo moooo mo moo moooo Moooooo, moo

of the three persons in the godhead of the Hindoos; gives us this divine
mo moo moooo moooooo mo moo moooooo mo moo Moooooo; moooo mo mooo mooooo

Vishnoo himself for our Lord;--Vishnoo, who, by the first of his ten
Moooooo moooooo moo moo Mooo;--Moooooo, moo, mo moo moooo mo moo moo

earthly incarnations, has for ever set apart and sanctified the whale.
moooooo mooooooooooo, moo moo mooo moo moooo moo mooooooooo moo moooo.

When Brahma, or the God of Gods, saith the Shaster, resolved to recreate
Mooo Mooooo, mo moo Moo mo Mooo, moooo moo Moooooo, mooooooo mo mooooooo

the world after one of its periodical dissolutions, he gave birth to
moo moooo moooo moo mo moo mooooooooo mooooooooooo, mo mooo moooo mo

Vishnoo, to preside over the work; but the Vedas, or mystical books,
Moooooo, mo moooooo mooo moo mooo; moo moo Moooo, mo mooooooo moooo,

whose perusal would seem to have been indispensable to Vishnoo before
moooo moooooo moooo mooo mo mooo mooo moooooooooooo mo Moooooo mooooo

beginning the creation, and which therefore must have contained
moooooooo moo mooooooo, moo moooo moooooooo mooo mooo moooooooo

something in the shape of practical hints to young architects, these
moooooooo mo moo moooo mo moooooooo moooo mo moooo mooooooooo, moooo

Vedas were lying at the bottom of the waters; so Vishnoo became
Moooo mooo moooo mo moo mooooo mo moo mooooo; mo Moooooo mooooo

incarnate in a whale, and sounding down in him to the uttermost depths,
moooooooo mo m moooo, moo mooooooo mooo mo moo mo moo moooooooo mooooo,

rescued the sacred volumes. Was not this Vishnoo a whaleman, then? even
moooooo moo mooooo moooooo. Moo moo mooo Moooooo m mooooooo, mooo? mooo

as a man who rides a horse is called a horseman?
mo m moo moo moooo m moooo mo mooooo m mooooooo?




Perseus, St. George, Hercules, Jonah, and Vishnoo! there's a member-roll
Moooooo, Mo. Mooooo, Mooooooo, Moooo, moo Moooooo! moooo'm m mooooo-mooo

for you! What club but the whaleman's can head off like that?
moo moo! Mooo mooo moo moo mooooooo'm moo mooo moo mooo mooo?










CHAPTER 83. Jonah Historically Regarded.
MOOOOOO mo. Moooo Mooooooooooo Mooooooo.







Reference was made to the historical story of Jonah and the whale in the
Moooooooo moo mooo mo moo mooooooooo moooo mo Moooo moo moo moooo mo moo

preceding chapter. Now some Nantucketers rather distrust this historical
moooooooo moooooo. Moo mooo Mooooooooooo mooooo mooooooo mooo mooooooooo

story of Jonah and the whale. But then there were some sceptical Greeks
moooo mo Moooo moo moo moooo. Moo mooo moooo mooo mooo moooooooo Mooooo

and Romans, who, standing out from the orthodox pagans of their times,
moo Mooooo, moo, mooooooo moo mooo moo mooooooo mooooo mo moooo moooo,

equally doubted the story of Hercules and the whale, and Arion and the
moooooo moooooo moo moooo mo Mooooooo moo moo moooo, moo Moooo moo moo

dolphin; and yet their doubting those traditions did not make those
moooooo; moo moo moooo mooooooo moooo mooooooooo moo moo mooo moooo

traditions one whit the less facts, for all that.
mooooooooo moo mooo moo mooo moooo, moo moo mooo.




One old Sag-Harbor whaleman's chief reason for questioning the Hebrew
Moo moo Moo-Mooooo mooooooo'm moooo mooooo moo moooooooooo moo Mooooo

story was this:--He had one of those quaint old-fashioned Bibles,
moooo moo mooo:--Mo moo moo mo moooo mooooo moo-moooooooo Mooooo,

embellished with curious, unscientific plates; one of which represented
moooooooooo mooo moooooo, mooooooooooo mooooo; moo mo moooo moooooooooo

Jonah's whale with two spouts in his head--a peculiarity only true
Moooo'm moooo mooo moo mooooo mo moo mooo--m moooooooooo mooo mooo

with respect to a species of the Leviathan (the Right Whale, and the
mooo moooooo mo m moooooo mo moo Moooooooo (moo Moooo Moooo, moo moo

varieties of that order), concerning which the fishermen have this
moooooooo mo mooo moooo), mooooooooo moooo moo moooooooo mooo mooo

saying, "A penny roll would choke him"; his swallow is so very small.
mooooo, "M moooo mooo moooo moooo moo"; moo moooooo mo mo mooo moooo.

But, to this, Bishop Jebb's anticipative answer is ready. It is not
Moo, mo mooo, Mooooo Mooo'm mooooooooooo mooooo mo moooo. Mo mo moo

necessary, hints the Bishop, that we consider Jonah as tombed in the
moooooooo, moooo moo Mooooo, mooo mo mooooooo Moooo mo mooooo mo moo

whale's belly, but as temporarily lodged in some part of his mouth. And
moooo'm moooo, moo mo moooooooooo mooooo mo mooo mooo mo moo moooo. Moo

this seems reasonable enough in the good Bishop. For truly, the
mooo moooo mooooooooo mooooo mo moo mooo Mooooo. Moo moooo, moo

Right Whale's mouth would accommodate a couple of whist-tables, and
Moooo Moooo'm moooo moooo moooooooooo m mooooo mo moooo-mooooo, moo

comfortably seat all the players. Possibly, too, Jonah might have
moooooooooo mooo moo moo moooooo. Mooooooo, moo, Moooo moooo mooo

ensconced himself in a hollow tooth; but, on second thoughts, the Right
moooooooo moooooo mo m mooooo moooo; moo, mo mooooo mooooooo, moo Moooo

Whale is toothless.
Moooo mo moooooooo.




Another reason which Sag-Harbor (he went by that name) urged for his
Moooooo mooooo moooo Moo-Mooooo (mo mooo mo mooo mooo) moooo moo moo

want of faith in this matter of the prophet, was something obscurely in
mooo mo moooo mo mooo mooooo mo moo moooooo, moo moooooooo moooooooo mo

reference to his incarcerated body and the whale's gastric juices. But
moooooooo mo moo mooooooooooo mooo moo moo moooo'm moooooo mooooo. Moo

this objection likewise falls to the ground, because a German exegetist
mooo moooooooo mooooooo moooo mo moo mooooo, moooooo m Mooooo moooooooo

supposes that Jonah must have taken refuge in the floating body of a
mooooooo mooo Moooo mooo mooo moooo mooooo mo moo mooooooo mooo mo m

DEAD whale--even as the French soldiers in the Russian campaign turned
MOOO moooo--mooo mo moo Mooooo mooooooo mo moo Moooooo mooooooo mooooo

their dead horses into tents, and crawled into them. Besides, it has
moooo mooo mooooo mooo moooo, moo moooooo mooo mooo. Moooooo, mo moo

been divined by other continental commentators, that when Jonah was
mooo moooooo mo moooo moooooooooo mooooooooooo, mooo mooo Moooo moo

thrown overboard from the Joppa ship, he straightway effected his escape
mooooo moooooooo mooo moo Moooo mooo, mo moooooooooo mooooooo moo mooooo

to another vessel near by, some vessel with a whale for a figure-head;
mo moooooo mooooo mooo mo, mooo mooooo mooo m moooo moo m mooooo-mooo;

and, I would add, possibly called "The Whale," as some craft are
moo, M moooo moo, mooooooo mooooo "Moo Moooo," mo mooo moooo moo

nowadays christened the "Shark," the "Gull," the "Eagle." Nor have there
mooooooo mooooooooo moo "Moooo," moo "Mooo," moo "Moooo." Moo mooo moooo

been wanting learned exegetists who have opined that the whale mentioned
mooo moooooo moooooo mooooooooo moo mooo mooooo mooo moo moooo moooooooo

in the book of Jonah merely meant a life-preserver--an inflated bag
mo moo mooo mo Moooo mooooo moooo m mooo-moooooooo--mo mooooooo moo

of wind--which the endangered prophet swam to, and so was saved from a
mo mooo--moooo moo mooooooooo moooooo mooo mo, moo mo moo moooo mooo m

watery doom. Poor Sag-Harbor, therefore, seems worsted all round. But
mooooo mooo. Mooo Moo-Mooooo, moooooooo, moooo moooooo moo moooo. Moo

he had still another reason for his want of faith. It was this, if I
mo moo moooo moooooo mooooo moo moo mooo mo moooo. Mo moo mooo, mo M

remember right: Jonah was swallowed by the whale in the Mediterranean
mooooooo moooo: Moooo moo moooooooo mo moo moooo mo moo Moooooooooooo

Sea, and after three days he was vomited up somewhere within three days'
Moo, moo moooo moooo mooo mo moo moooooo mo moooooooo mooooo moooo mooo'

journey of Nineveh, a city on the Tigris, very much more than three
moooooo mo Moooooo, m mooo mo moo Mooooo, mooo mooo mooo mooo moooo

days' journey across from the nearest point of the Mediterranean coast.
mooo' moooooo mooooo mooo moo moooooo moooo mo moo Moooooooooooo moooo.

How is that?
Moo mo mooo?




But was there no other way for the whale to land the prophet within that
Moo moo moooo mo moooo moo moo moo moooo mo mooo moo moooooo mooooo mooo

short distance of Nineveh? Yes. He might have carried him round by the
moooo mooooooo mo Moooooo? Moo. Mo moooo mooo moooooo moo moooo mo moo

way of the Cape of Good Hope. But not to speak of the passage through
moo mo moo Mooo mo Mooo Mooo. Moo moo mo moooo mo moo moooooo moooooo

the whole length of the Mediterranean, and another passage up the
moo moooo mooooo mo moo Moooooooooooo, moo moooooo moooooo mo moo

Persian Gulf and Red Sea, such a supposition would involve the complete
Moooooo Mooo moo Moo Moo, mooo m moooooooooo moooo moooooo moo mooooooo

circumnavigation of all Africa in three days, not to speak of the Tigris
mooooooooooooooo mo moo Mooooo mo moooo mooo, moo mo moooo mo moo Mooooo

waters, near the site of Nineveh, being too shallow for any whale to
mooooo, mooo moo mooo mo Moooooo, moooo moo moooooo moo moo moooo mo

swim in. Besides, this idea of Jonah's weathering the Cape of Good Hope
mooo mo. Moooooo, mooo mooo mo Moooo'm mooooooooo moo Mooo mo Mooo Mooo

at so early a day would wrest the honour of the discovery of that great
mo mo moooo m moo moooo moooo moo mooooo mo moo moooooooo mo mooo moooo

headland from Bartholomew Diaz, its reputed discoverer, and so make
mooooooo mooo Moooooooooo Mooo, moo moooooo mooooooooo, moo mo mooo

modern history a liar.
mooooo moooooo m mooo.




But all these foolish arguments of old Sag-Harbor only evinced his
Moo moo moooo moooooo moooooooo mo moo Moo-Mooooo mooo moooooo moo

foolish pride of reason--a thing still more reprehensible in him, seeing
moooooo moooo mo mooooo--m moooo moooo mooo moooooooooooo mo moo, mooooo

that he had but little learning except what he had picked up from the
mooo mo moo moo mooooo mooooooo mooooo mooo mo moo mooooo mo mooo moo

sun and the sea. I say it only shows his foolish, impious pride, and
moo moo moo moo. M moo mo mooo moooo moo moooooo, moooooo moooo, moo

abominable, devilish rebellion against the reverend clergy. For by a
mooooooooo, mooooooo moooooooo moooooo moo mooooooo mooooo. Moo mo m

Portuguese Catholic priest, this very idea of Jonah's going to Nineveh
Mooooooooo Mooooooo mooooo, mooo mooo mooo mo Moooo'm moooo mo Moooooo

via the Cape of Good Hope was advanced as a signal magnification of
moo moo Mooo mo Mooo Mooo moo mooooooo mo m mooooo moooooooooooo mo

the general miracle. And so it was. Besides, to this day, the highly
moo moooooo moooooo. Moo mo mo moo. Moooooo, mo mooo moo, moo mooooo

enlightened Turks devoutly believe in the historical story of Jonah. And
moooooooooo Moooo mooooooo moooooo mo moo mooooooooo moooo mo Moooo. Moo

some three centuries ago, an English traveller in old Harris's Voyages,
mooo moooo moooooooo moo, mo Moooooo moooooooo mo moo Mooooo'm Moooooo,

speaks of a Turkish Mosque built in honour of Jonah, in which Mosque was
mooooo mo m Moooooo Mooooo moooo mo mooooo mo Moooo, mo moooo Mooooo moo

a miraculous lamp that burnt without any oil.
m mooooooooo mooo mooo moooo moooooo moo moo.










CHAPTER 84. Pitchpoling.
MOOOOOO mo. Moooooooooo.







To make them run easily and swiftly, the axles of carriages are
Mo mooo mooo moo mooooo moo moooooo, moo moooo mo moooooooo moo

anointed; and for much the same purpose, some whalers perform an
mooooooo; moo moo mooo moo mooo moooooo, mooo moooooo moooooo mo

analogous operation upon their boat; they grease the bottom. Nor is it
moooooooo moooooooo mooo moooo mooo; mooo mooooo moo mooooo. Moo mo mo

to be doubted that as such a procedure can do no harm, it may possibly
mo mo moooooo mooo mo mooo m moooooooo moo mo mo mooo, mo moo mooooooo

be of no contemptible advantage; considering that oil and water are
mo mo mo mooooooooooo moooooooo; moooooooooo mooo moo moo moooo moo

hostile; that oil is a sliding thing, and that the object in view is to
moooooo; mooo moo mo m moooooo moooo, moo mooo moo mooooo mo mooo mo mo

make the boat slide bravely. Queequeg believed strongly in anointing
mooo moo mooo moooo moooooo. Mooooooo mooooooo mooooooo mo moooooooo

his boat, and one morning not long after the German ship Jungfrau
moo mooo, moo moo moooooo moo mooo moooo moo Mooooo mooo Mooooooo

disappeared, took more than customary pains in that occupation; crawling
moooooooooo, mooo mooo mooo moooooooo moooo mo mooo mooooooooo; mooooooo

under its bottom, where it hung over the side, and rubbing in the
moooo moo mooooo, moooo mo mooo mooo moo mooo, moo moooooo mo moo

unctuousness as though diligently seeking to insure a crop of hair from
mooooooooooo mo mooooo mooooooooo moooooo mo mooooo m mooo mo mooo mooo

the craft's bald keel. He seemed to be working in obedience to some
moo moooo'm mooo mooo. Mo mooooo mo mo moooooo mo moooooooo mo mooo

particular presentiment. Nor did it remain unwarranted by the event.
mooooooooo mooooooooooo. Moo moo mo mooooo moooooooooo mo moo moooo.




Towards noon whales were raised; but so soon as the ship sailed down to
Moooooo mooo mooooo mooo mooooo; moo mo mooo mo moo mooo mooooo mooo mo

them, they turned and fled with swift precipitancy; a disordered flight,
mooo, mooo mooooo moo mooo mooo moooo mooooooooooo; m mooooooooo mooooo,

as of Cleopatra's barges from Actium.
mo mo Moooooooo'm mooooo mooo Mooooo.




Nevertheless, the boats pursued, and Stubb's was foremost. By great
Mooooooooooo, moo moooo moooooo, moo Moooo'm moo mooooooo. Mo moooo

exertion, Tashtego at last succeeded in planting one iron; but the
mooooooo, Mooooooo mo mooo moooooooo mo mooooooo moo mooo; moo moo

stricken whale, without at all sounding, still continued his horizontal
mooooooo moooo, moooooo mo moo mooooooo, moooo moooooooo moo mooooooooo

flight, with added fleetness. Such unintermitted strainings upon the
mooooo, mooo moooo moooooooo. Mooo moooooooooooo mooooooooo mooo moo

planted iron must sooner or later inevitably extract it. It became
moooooo mooo mooo mooooo mo moooo mooooooooo moooooo mo. Mo mooooo

imperative to lance the flying whale, or be content to lose him. But
mooooooooo mo moooo moo mooooo moooo, mo mo moooooo mo mooo moo. Moo

to haul the boat up to his flank was impossible, he swam so fast and
mo mooo moo mooo mo mo moo moooo moo mooooooooo, mo mooo mo mooo moo

furious. What then remained?
moooooo. Mooo mooo mooooooo?




Of all the wondrous devices and dexterities, the sleights of hand and
Mo moo moo mooooooo moooooo moo moooooooooo, moo mooooooo mo mooo moo

countless subtleties, to which the veteran whaleman is so often forced,
moooooooo mooooooooo, mo moooo moo moooooo mooooooo mo mo moooo mooooo,

none exceed that fine manoeuvre with the lance called pitchpoling. Small
mooo mooooo mooo mooo moooooooo mooo moo moooo mooooo moooooooooo. Moooo

sword, or broad sword, in all its exercises boasts nothing like it. It
moooo, mo moooo moooo, mo moo moo moooooooo mooooo moooooo mooo mo. Mo

is only indispensable with an inveterate running whale; its grand
mo mooo moooooooooooo mooo mo mooooooooo moooooo moooo; moo moooo

fact and feature is the wonderful distance to which the long lance is
mooo moo moooooo mo moo moooooooo mooooooo mo moooo moo mooo moooo mo

accurately darted from a violently rocking, jerking boat, under extreme
mooooooooo mooooo mooo m moooooooo moooooo, moooooo mooo, moooo moooooo

headway. Steel and wood included, the entire spear is some ten or twelve
moooooo. Moooo moo mooo mooooooo, moo mooooo moooo mo mooo moo mo mooooo

feet in length; the staff is much slighter than that of the harpoon,
mooo mo mooooo; moo moooo mo mooo mooooooo mooo mooo mo moo moooooo,

and also of a lighter material--pine. It is furnished with a small rope
moo mooo mo m moooooo mooooooo--mooo. Mo mo moooooooo mooo m moooo mooo

called a warp, of considerable length, by which it can be hauled back to
mooooo m mooo, mo mooooooooooo mooooo, mo moooo mo moo mo mooooo mooo mo

the hand after darting.
moo mooo moooo moooooo.




But before going further, it is important to mention here, that though
Moo mooooo moooo moooooo, mo mo moooooooo mo moooooo mooo, mooo mooooo

the harpoon may be pitchpoled in the same way with the lance, yet it
moo moooooo moo mo mooooooooo mo moo mooo moo mooo moo moooo, moo mo

is seldom done; and when done, is still less frequently successful,
mo mooooo mooo; moo mooo mooo, mo moooo mooo mooooooooo mooooooooo,

on account of the greater weight and inferior length of the harpoon as
mo moooooo mo moo moooooo mooooo moo mooooooo mooooo mo moo moooooo mo

compared with the lance, which in effect become serious drawbacks. As a
mooooooo mooo moo moooo, moooo mo mooooo mooooo moooooo moooooooo. Mo m

general thing, therefore, you must first get fast to a whale, before any
moooooo moooo, moooooooo, moo mooo moooo moo mooo mo m moooo, mooooo moo

pitchpoling comes into play.
moooooooooo moooo mooo mooo.




Look now at Stubb; a man who from his humorous, deliberate coolness and
Mooo moo mo Moooo; m moo moo mooo moo mooooooo, mooooooooo mooooooo moo

equanimity in the direst emergencies, was specially qualified to excel
mooooooooo mo moo mooooo moooooooooo, moo moooooooo moooooooo mo moooo

in pitchpoling. Look at him; he stands upright in the tossed bow of the
mo moooooooooo. Mooo mo moo; mo mooooo moooooo mo moo mooooo moo mo moo

flying boat; wrapt in fleecy foam, the towing whale is forty feet ahead.
mooooo mooo; moooo mo mooooo mooo, moo mooooo moooo mo moooo mooo moooo.

Handling the long lance lightly, glancing twice or thrice along its
Mooooooo moo mooo moooo moooooo, mooooooo moooo mo mooooo moooo moo

length to see if it be exactly straight, Stubb whistlingly gathers up
mooooo mo moo mo mo mo moooooo mooooooo, Moooo moooooooooo moooooo mo

the coil of the warp in one hand, so as to secure its free end in his
moo mooo mo moo mooo mo moo mooo, mo mo mo mooooo moo mooo moo mo moo

grasp, leaving the rest unobstructed. Then holding the lance full before
moooo, moooooo moo mooo mooooooooooo. Mooo moooooo moo moooo mooo mooooo

his waistband's middle, he levels it at the whale; when, covering
moo moooooooo'm mooooo, mo mooooo mo mo moo moooo; mooo, mooooooo

him with it, he steadily depresses the butt-end in his hand, thereby
moo mooo mo, mo mooooooo moooooooo moo mooo-moo mo moo mooo, moooooo

elevating the point till the weapon stands fairly balanced upon his
moooooooo moo moooo mooo moo mooooo mooooo mooooo mooooooo mooo moo

palm, fifteen feet in the air. He minds you somewhat of a juggler,
mooo, moooooo mooo mo moo moo. Mo moooo moo mooooooo mo m moooooo,

balancing a long staff on his chin. Next moment with a rapid, nameless
moooooooo m mooo moooo mo moo mooo. Mooo mooooo mooo m moooo, mooooooo

impulse, in a superb lofty arch the bright steel spans the foaming
moooooo, mo m mooooo moooo mooo moo mooooo moooo moooo moo moooooo

distance, and quivers in the life spot of the whale. Instead of
mooooooo, moo moooooo mo moo mooo mooo mo moo moooo. Moooooo mo

sparkling water, he now spouts red blood.
moooooooo moooo, mo moo mooooo moo moooo.




"That drove the spigot out of him!" cried Stubb. "'Tis July's immortal
"Mooo moooo moo mooooo moo mo moo!" moooo Moooo. "'Moo Mooo'm mooooooo

Fourth; all fountains must run wine today! Would now, it were old
Mooooo; moo moooooooo mooo moo mooo moooo! Moooo moo, mo mooo moo

Orleans whiskey, or old Ohio, or unspeakable old Monongahela! Then,
Moooooo moooooo, mo moo Mooo, mo moooooooooo moo Moooooooooo! Mooo,

Tashtego, lad, I'd have ye hold a canakin to the jet, and we'd drink
Mooooooo, moo, M'm mooo mo mooo m moooooo mo moo moo, moo mo'm moooo

round it! Yea, verily, hearts alive, we'd brew choice punch in the
moooo mo! Moo, mooooo, mooooo moooo, mo'm mooo mooooo moooo mo moo

spread of his spout-hole there, and from that live punch-bowl quaff the
mooooo mo moo moooo-mooo moooo, moo mooo mooo mooo moooo-mooo moooo moo

living stuff."
mooooo moooo."




Again and again to such gamesome talk, the dexterous dart is repeated,
Moooo moo moooo mo mooo mooooooo mooo, moo moooooooo mooo mo mooooooo,

the spear returning to its master like a greyhound held in skilful
moo moooo moooooooo mo moo mooooo mooo m moooooooo mooo mo moooooo

leash. The agonized whale goes into his flurry; the tow-line is
moooo. Moo mooooooo moooo mooo mooo moo mooooo; moo moo-mooo mo

slackened, and the pitchpoler dropping astern, folds his hands, and
moooooooo, moo moo mooooooooo mooooooo mooooo, moooo moo moooo, moo

mutely watches the monster die.
mooooo moooooo moo moooooo moo.










CHAPTER 85. The Fountain.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Mooooooo.







That for six thousand years--and no one knows how many millions of ages
Mooo moo moo mooooooo moooo--moo mo moo moooo moo mooo mooooooo mo mooo

before--the great whales should have been spouting all over the sea,
mooooo--moo moooo mooooo mooooo mooo mooo mooooooo moo mooo moo moo,

and sprinkling and mistifying the gardens of the deep, as with so
moo mooooooooo moo mooooooooo moo moooooo mo moo mooo, mo mooo mo

many sprinkling or mistifying pots; and that for some centuries back,
mooo mooooooooo mo mooooooooo mooo; moo mooo moo mooo moooooooo mooo,

thousands of hunters should have been close by the fountain of the
moooooooo mo moooooo mooooo mooo mooo moooo mo moo mooooooo mo moo

whale, watching these sprinklings and spoutings--that all this should
moooo, mooooooo moooo moooooooooo moo moooooooo--mooo moo mooo mooooo

be, and yet, that down to this blessed minute (fifteen and a quarter
mo, moo moo, mooo mooo mo mooo moooooo mooooo (moooooo moo m moooooo

minutes past one o'clock P.M. of this sixteenth day of December, A.D.
moooooo mooo moo m'moooo M.M. mo mooo moooooooo moo mo Mooooooo, M.M.

1851), it should still remain a problem, whether these spoutings
mooo), mo mooooo moooo mooooo m moooooo, moooooo moooo moooooooo

are, after all, really water, or nothing but vapour--this is surely a
moo, moooo moo, mooooo moooo, mo moooooo moo mooooo--mooo mo mooooo m

noteworthy thing.
mooooooooo moooo.




Let us, then, look at this matter, along with some interesting items
Moo mo, mooo, mooo mo mooo mooooo, moooo mooo mooo moooooooooo moooo

contingent. Every one knows that by the peculiar cunning of their
mooooooooo. Moooo moo moooo mooo mo moo mooooooo moooooo mo moooo

gills, the finny tribes in general breathe the air which at all times is
moooo, moo moooo mooooo mo moooooo moooooo moo moo moooo mo moo moooo mo

combined with the element in which they swim; hence, a herring or a cod
mooooooo mooo moo moooooo mo moooo mooo mooo; moooo, m moooooo mo m moo

might live a century, and never once raise its head above the surface.
moooo mooo m moooooo, moo moooo mooo moooo moo mooo moooo moo moooooo.

But owing to his marked internal structure which gives him regular
Moo moooo mo moo mooooo mooooooo moooooooo moooo moooo moo moooooo

lungs, like a human being's, the whale can only live by inhaling the
moooo, mooo m moooo moooo'm, moo moooo moo mooo mooo mo mooooooo moo

disengaged air in the open atmosphere. Wherefore the necessity for
mooooooooo moo mo moo mooo mooooooooo. Moooooooo moo moooooooo moo

his periodical visits to the upper world. But he cannot in any degree
moo mooooooooo mooooo mo moo moooo moooo. Moo mo mooooo mo moo mooooo

breathe through his mouth, for, in his ordinary attitude, the Sperm
moooooo moooooo moo moooo, moo, mo moo mooooooo mooooooo, moo Moooo

Whale's mouth is buried at least eight feet beneath the surface; and
Moooo'm moooo mo mooooo mo moooo moooo mooo moooooo moo moooooo; moo

what is still more, his windpipe has no connexion with his mouth. No, he
mooo mo moooo mooo, moo mooooooo moo mo moooooooo mooo moo moooo. Mo, mo

breathes through his spiracle alone; and this is on the top of his head.
mooooooo moooooo moo mooooooo moooo; moo mooo mo mo moo moo mo moo mooo.




If I say, that in any creature breathing is only a function
Mo M moo, mooo mo moo mooooooo moooooooo mo mooo m mooooooo

indispensable to vitality, inasmuch as it withdraws from the air a
moooooooooooo mo mooooooo, mooooooo mo mo moooooooo mooo moo moo m

certain element, which being subsequently brought into contact with the
moooooo moooooo, moooo moooo mooooooooooo moooooo mooo moooooo mooo moo

blood imparts to the blood its vivifying principle, I do not think I
moooo moooooo mo moo moooo moo moooooooo moooooooo, M mo moo moooo M

shall err; though I may possibly use some superfluous scientific words.
moooo moo; mooooo M moo mooooooo moo mooo moooooooooo mooooooooo moooo.

Assume it, and it follows that if all the blood in a man could be
Mooooo mo, moo mo moooooo mooo mo moo moo moooo mo m moo moooo mo

aerated with one breath, he might then seal up his nostrils and not
moooooo mooo moo mooooo, mo moooo mooo mooo mo moo mooooooo moo moo

fetch another for a considerable time. That is to say, he would then
moooo moooooo moo m mooooooooooo mooo. Mooo mo mo moo, mo moooo mooo

live without breathing. Anomalous as it may seem, this is precisely the
mooo moooooo moooooooo. Moooooooo mo mo moo mooo, mooo mo moooooooo moo

case with the whale, who systematically lives, by intervals, his full
mooo mooo moo moooo, moo mooooooooooooo moooo, mo moooooooo, moo mooo

hour and more (when at the bottom) without drawing a single breath, or
mooo moo mooo (mooo mo moo mooooo) moooooo moooooo m mooooo mooooo, mo

so much as in any way inhaling a particle of air; for, remember, he has
mo mooo mo mo moo moo mooooooo m mooooooo mo moo; moo, mooooooo, mo moo

no gills. How is this? Between his ribs and on each side of his spine
mo moooo. Moo mo mooo? Moooooo moo mooo moo mo mooo mooo mo moo moooo

he is supplied with a remarkable involved Cretan labyrinth of
mo mo mooooooo mooo m mooooooooo mooooooo Mooooo moooooooo mo

vermicelli-like vessels, which vessels, when he quits the surface, are
mooooooooo-mooo moooooo, moooo moooooo, mooo mo moooo moo moooooo, moo

completely distended with oxygenated blood. So that for an hour or more,
mooooooooo moooooooo mooo mooooooooo moooo. Mo mooo moo mo mooo mo mooo,

a thousand fathoms in the sea, he carries a surplus stock of vitality in
m mooooooo moooooo mo moo moo, mo moooooo m moooooo moooo mo mooooooo mo

him, just as the camel crossing the waterless desert carries a surplus
moo, mooo mo moo moooo mooooooo moo moooooooo mooooo moooooo m moooooo

supply of drink for future use in its four supplementary stomachs.
mooooo mo moooo moo mooooo moo mo moo mooo moooooooooooo mooooooo.

The anatomical fact of this labyrinth is indisputable; and that the
Moo mooooooooo mooo mo mooo moooooooo mo mooooooooooo; moo mooo moo

supposition founded upon it is reasonable and true, seems the more
moooooooooo moooooo mooo mo mo mooooooooo moo mooo, moooo moo mooo

cogent to me, when I consider the otherwise inexplicable obstinacy of
mooooo mo mo, mooo M mooooooo moo moooooooo mooooooooooo moooooooo mo

that leviathan in HAVING HIS SPOUTINGS OUT, as the fishermen phrase
mooo moooooooo mo MOOOOO MOO MOOOOOOOO MOO, mo moo moooooooo mooooo

it. This is what I mean. If unmolested, upon rising to the surface, the
mo. Mooo mo mooo M mooo. Mo mooooooooo, mooo mooooo mo moo moooooo, moo

Sperm Whale will continue there for a period of time exactly uniform
Moooo Moooo mooo mooooooo moooo moo m mooooo mo mooo moooooo moooooo

with all his other unmolested risings. Say he stays eleven minutes, and
mooo moo moo moooo mooooooooo moooooo. Moo mo moooo mooooo moooooo, moo

jets seventy times, that is, respires seventy breaths; then whenever he
mooo moooooo moooo, mooo mo, mooooooo moooooo moooooo; mooo mooooooo mo

rises again, he will be sure to have his seventy breaths over again, to
moooo moooo, mo mooo mo mooo mo mooo moo moooooo moooooo mooo moooo, mo

a minute. Now, if after he fetches a few breaths you alarm him, so that
m mooooo. Moo, mo moooo mo moooooo m moo moooooo moo moooo moo, mo mooo

he sounds, he will be always dodging up again to make good his regular
mo mooooo, mo mooo mo mooooo moooooo mo moooo mo mooo mooo moo moooooo

allowance of air. And not till those seventy breaths are told, will he
moooooooo mo moo. Moo moo mooo moooo moooooo moooooo moo mooo, mooo mo

finally go down to stay out his full term below. Remark, however, that
moooooo mo mooo mo mooo moo moo mooo mooo moooo. Mooooo, moooooo, mooo

in different individuals these rates are different; but in any one
mo moooooooo moooooooooo moooo moooo moo moooooooo; moo mo moo moo

they are alike. Now, why should the whale thus insist upon having his
mooo moo moooo. Moo, moo mooooo moo moooo mooo mooooo mooo mooooo moo

spoutings out, unless it be to replenish his reservoir of air, ere
moooooooo moo, mooooo mo mo mo moooooooo moo moooooooo mo moo, moo

descending for good? How obvious is it, too, that this necessity for the
mooooooooo moo mooo? Moo moooooo mo mo, moo, mooo mooo moooooooo moo moo

whale's rising exposes him to all the fatal hazards of the chase. For
moooo'm mooooo moooooo moo mo moo moo moooo moooooo mo moo moooo. Moo

not by hook or by net could this vast leviathan be caught, when sailing
moo mo mooo mo mo moo moooo mooo mooo moooooooo mo mooooo, mooo moooooo

a thousand fathoms beneath the sunlight. Not so much thy skill, then, O
m mooooooo moooooo moooooo moo mooooooo. Moo mo mooo moo moooo, mooo, M

hunter, as the great necessities that strike the victory to thee!
mooooo, mo moo moooo moooooooooo mooo mooooo moo moooooo mo mooo!




In man, breathing is incessantly going on--one breath only serving
Mo moo, moooooooo mo moooooooooo moooo mo--moo mooooo mooo moooooo

for two or three pulsations; so that whatever other business he has to
moo moo mo moooo mooooooooo; mo mooo mooooooo moooo mooooooo mo moo mo

attend to, waking or sleeping, breathe he must, or die he will. But the
mooooo mo, mooooo mo mooooooo, moooooo mo mooo, mo moo mo mooo. Moo moo

Sperm Whale only breathes about one seventh or Sunday of his time.
Moooo Moooo mooo mooooooo moooo moo moooooo mo Mooooo mo moo mooo.




It has been said that the whale only breathes through his spout-hole; if
Mo moo mooo mooo mooo moo moooo mooo mooooooo moooooo moo moooo-mooo; mo

it could truthfully be added that his spouts are mixed with water, then
mo moooo mooooooooo mo moooo mooo moo mooooo moo moooo mooo moooo, mooo

I opine we should be furnished with the reason why his sense of smell
M moooo mo mooooo mo moooooooo mooo moo mooooo moo moo moooo mo moooo

seems obliterated in him; for the only thing about him that at all
moooo moooooooooo mo moo; moo moo mooo moooo moooo moo mooo mo moo

answers to his nose is that identical spout-hole; and being so clogged
moooooo mo moo mooo mo mooo moooooooo moooo-mooo; moo moooo mo moooooo

with two elements, it could not be expected to have the power of
mooo moo mooooooo, mo moooo moo mo mooooooo mo mooo moo moooo mo

smelling. But owing to the mystery of the spout--whether it be water or
mooooooo. Moo moooo mo moo moooooo mo moo moooo--moooooo mo mo moooo mo

whether it be vapour--no absolute certainty can as yet be arrived at on
moooooo mo mo mooooo--mo mooooooo moooooooo moo mo moo mo moooooo mo mo

this head. Sure it is, nevertheless, that the Sperm Whale has no proper
mooo mooo. Mooo mo mo, mooooooooooo, mooo moo Moooo Moooo moo mo mooooo

olfactories. But what does he want of them? No roses, no violets, no
moooooooooo. Moo mooo mooo mo mooo mo mooo? Mo moooo, mo moooooo, mo

Cologne-water in the sea.
Moooooo-moooo mo moo moo.




Furthermore, as his windpipe solely opens into the tube of his spouting
Moooooooooo, mo moo mooooooo mooooo moooo mooo moo mooo mo moo mooooooo

canal, and as that long canal--like the grand Erie Canal--is furnished
moooo, moo mo mooo mooo moooo--mooo moo moooo Mooo Moooo--mo moooooooo

with a sort of locks (that open and shut) for the downward retention of
mooo m mooo mo moooo (mooo mooo moo mooo) moo moo mooooooo moooooooo mo

air or the upward exclusion of water, therefore the whale has no voice;
moo mo moo mooooo moooooooo mo moooo, moooooooo moo moooo moo mo moooo;

unless you insult him by saying, that when he so strangely rumbles,
mooooo moo mooooo moo mo mooooo, mooo mooo mo mo moooooooo moooooo,

he talks through his nose. But then again, what has the whale to say?
mo moooo moooooo moo mooo. Moo mooo moooo, mooo moo moo moooo mo moo?

Seldom have I known any profound being that had anything to say to
Mooooo mooo M moooo moo mooooooo moooo mooo moo mooooooo mo moo mo

this world, unless forced to stammer out something by way of getting a
mooo moooo, mooooo mooooo mo moooooo moo moooooooo mo moo mo moooooo m

living. Oh! happy that the world is such an excellent listener!
mooooo. Mo! moooo mooo moo moooo mo mooo mo moooooooo mooooooo!




Now, the spouting canal of the Sperm Whale, chiefly intended as it
Moo, moo mooooooo moooo mo moo Moooo Moooo, moooooo mooooooo mo mo

is for the conveyance of air, and for several feet laid along,
mo moo moo mooooooooo mo moo, moo moo moooooo mooo mooo moooo,

horizontally, just beneath the upper surface of his head, and a little
mooooooooooo, mooo moooooo moo moooo moooooo mo moo mooo, moo m mooooo

to one side; this curious canal is very much like a gas-pipe laid down
mo moo mooo; mooo moooooo moooo mo mooo mooo mooo m moo-mooo mooo mooo

in a city on one side of a street. But the question returns whether this
mo m mooo mo moo mooo mo m mooooo. Moo moo mooooooo moooooo moooooo mooo

gas-pipe is also a water-pipe; in other words, whether the spout of the
moo-mooo mo mooo m moooo-mooo; mo moooo moooo, moooooo moo moooo mo moo

Sperm Whale is the mere vapour of the exhaled breath, or whether that
Moooo Moooo mo moo mooo mooooo mo moo moooooo mooooo, mo moooooo mooo

exhaled breath is mixed with water taken in at the mouth, and
moooooo mooooo mo moooo mooo moooo moooo mo mo moo moooo, moo

discharged through the spiracle. It is certain that the mouth indirectly
mooooooooo moooooo moo mooooooo. Mo mo moooooo mooo moo moooo mooooooooo

communicates with the spouting canal; but it cannot be proved that this
mooooooooooo mooo moo mooooooo moooo; moo mo mooooo mo mooooo mooo mooo

is for the purpose of discharging water through the spiracle. Because
mo moo moo moooooo mo moooooooooo moooo moooooo moo mooooooo. Moooooo

the greatest necessity for so doing would seem to be, when in feeding he
moo mooooooo moooooooo moo mo moooo moooo mooo mo mo, mooo mo moooooo mo

accidentally takes in water. But the Sperm Whale's food is far beneath
mooooooooooo moooo mo moooo. Moo moo Moooo Moooo'm mooo mo moo moooooo

the surface, and there he cannot spout even if he would. Besides, if
moo moooooo, moo moooo mo mooooo moooo mooo mo mo moooo. Moooooo, mo

you regard him very closely, and time him with your watch, you will find
moo mooooo moo mooo moooooo, moo mooo moo mooo mooo moooo, moo mooo mooo

that when unmolested, there is an undeviating rhyme between the periods
mooo mooo mooooooooo, moooo mo mo moooooooooo moooo moooooo moo moooooo

of his jets and the ordinary periods of respiration.
mo moo mooo moo moo mooooooo moooooo mo moooooooooo.




But why pester one with all this reasoning on the subject? Speak out!
Moo moo mooooo moo mooo moo mooo moooooooo mo moo moooooo? Moooo moo!

You have seen him spout; then declare what the spout is; can you not
Moo mooo mooo moo moooo; mooo moooooo mooo moo moooo mo; moo moo moo

tell water from air? My dear sir, in this world it is not so easy to
mooo moooo mooo moo? Mo mooo moo, mo mooo moooo mo mo moo mo mooo mo

settle these plain things. I have ever found your plain things the
mooooo moooo moooo mooooo. M mooo mooo moooo mooo moooo mooooo moo

knottiest of all. And as for this whale spout, you might almost stand in
moooooooo mo moo. Moo mo moo mooo moooo moooo, moo moooo mooooo moooo mo

it, and yet be undecided as to what it is precisely.
mo, moo moo mo moooooooo mo mo mooo mo mo moooooooo.




The central body of it is hidden in the snowy sparkling mist enveloping
Moo moooooo mooo mo mo mo mooooo mo moo moooo moooooooo mooo mooooooooo

it; and how can you certainly tell whether any water falls from it,
mo; moo moo moo moo moooooooo mooo moooooo moo moooo moooo mooo mo,

when, always, when you are close enough to a whale to get a close view
mooo, mooooo, mooo moo moo moooo mooooo mo m moooo mo moo m moooo mooo

of his spout, he is in a prodigious commotion, the water cascading
mo moo moooo, mo mo mo m mooooooooo moooooooo, moo moooo moooooooo

all around him. And if at such times you should think that you really
moo mooooo moo. Moo mo mo mooo moooo moo mooooo moooo mooo moo mooooo

perceived drops of moisture in the spout, how do you know that they are
moooooooo moooo mo mooooooo mo moo moooo, moo mo moo mooo mooo mooo moo

not merely condensed from its vapour; or how do you know that they
moo mooooo moooooooo mooo moo mooooo; mo moo mo moo mooo mooo mooo

are not those identical drops superficially lodged in the spout-hole
moo moo moooo moooooooo moooo moooooooooooo mooooo mo moo moooo-mooo

fissure, which is countersunk into the summit of the whale's head? For
moooooo, moooo mo moooooooooo mooo moo mooooo mo moo moooo'm mooo? Moo

even when tranquilly swimming through the mid-day sea in a calm, with
mooo mooo mooooooooo mooooooo moooooo moo moo-moo moo mo m mooo, mooo

his elevated hump sun-dried as a dromedary's in the desert; even then,
moo mooooooo mooo moo-moooo mo m moooooooo'm mo moo mooooo; mooo mooo,

the whale always carries a small basin of water on his head, as under
moo moooo mooooo moooooo m moooo moooo mo moooo mo moo mooo, mo moooo

a blazing sun you will sometimes see a cavity in a rock filled up with
m moooooo moo moo mooo moooooooo moo m mooooo mo m mooo mooooo mo mooo

rain.
mooo.




Nor is it at all prudent for the hunter to be over curious touching the
Moo mo mo mo moo moooooo moo moo mooooo mo mo mooo moooooo mooooooo moo

precise nature of the whale spout. It will not do for him to be peering
moooooo mooooo mo moo moooo moooo. Mo mooo moo mo moo moo mo mo moooooo

into it, and putting his face in it. You cannot go with your pitcher to
mooo mo, moo moooooo moo mooo mo mo. Moo mooooo mo mooo mooo moooooo mo

this fountain and fill it, and bring it away. For even when coming into
mooo mooooooo moo mooo mo, moo moooo mo mooo. Moo mooo mooo mooooo mooo

slight contact with the outer, vapoury shreds of the jet, which will
mooooo moooooo mooo moo moooo, moooooo mooooo mo moo moo, moooo mooo

often happen, your skin will feverishly smart, from the acridness of
moooo mooooo, mooo mooo mooo mooooooooo moooo, mooo moo moooooooo mo

the thing so touching it. And I know one, who coming into still closer
moo moooo mo mooooooo mo. Moo M mooo moo, moo mooooo mooo moooo mooooo

contact with the spout, whether with some scientific object in view,
moooooo mooo moo moooo, moooooo mooo mooo mooooooooo mooooo mo mooo,

or otherwise, I cannot say, the skin peeled off from his cheek and arm.
mo moooooooo, M mooooo moo, moo mooo mooooo moo mooo moo moooo moo moo.

Wherefore, among whalemen, the spout is deemed poisonous; they try to
Moooooooo, moooo mooooooo, moo moooo mo mooooo moooooooo; mooo moo mo

evade it. Another thing; I have heard it said, and I do not much doubt
moooo mo. Moooooo moooo; M mooo moooo mo mooo, moo M mo moo mooo moooo

it, that if the jet is fairly spouted into your eyes, it will blind you.
mo, mooo mo moo moo mo mooooo moooooo mooo mooo mooo, mo mooo moooo moo.

The wisest thing the investigator can do then, it seems to me, is to let
Moo mooooo moooo moo mooooooooooo moo mo mooo, mo moooo mo mo, mo mo moo

this deadly spout alone.
mooo mooooo moooo moooo.




Still, we can hypothesize, even if we cannot prove and establish. My
Moooo, mo moo moooooooooo, mooo mo mo mooooo moooo moo moooooooo. Mo

hypothesis is this: that the spout is nothing but mist. And besides
mooooooooo mo mooo: mooo moo moooo mo moooooo moo mooo. Moo moooooo

other reasons, to this conclusion I am impelled, by considerations
moooo moooooo, mo mooo mooooooooo M mo mooooooo, mo mooooooooooooo

touching the great inherent dignity and sublimity of the Sperm Whale;
mooooooo moo moooo mooooooo moooooo moo moooooooo mo moo Moooo Moooo;

I account him no common, shallow being, inasmuch as it is an undisputed
M moooooo moo mo mooooo, moooooo moooo, mooooooo mo mo mo mo mooooooooo

fact that he is never found on soundings, or near shores; all other
mooo mooo mo mo moooo moooo mo moooooooo, mo mooo mooooo; moo moooo

whales sometimes are. He is both ponderous and profound. And I am
mooooo moooooooo moo. Mo mo mooo moooooooo moo mooooooo. Moo M mo

convinced that from the heads of all ponderous profound beings, such as
moooooooo mooo mooo moo moooo mo moo moooooooo mooooooo mooooo, mooo mo

Plato, Pyrrho, the Devil, Jupiter, Dante, and so on, there always goes
Moooo, Mooooo, moo Moooo, Moooooo, Moooo, moo mo mo, moooo mooooo mooo

up a certain semi-visible steam, while in the act of thinking deep
mo m moooooo mooo-moooooo moooo, moooo mo moo moo mo mooooooo mooo

thoughts. While composing a little treatise on Eternity, I had the
mooooooo. Moooo moooooooo m mooooo mooooooo mo Mooooooo, M moo moo

curiosity to place a mirror before me; and ere long saw reflected there,
moooooooo mo moooo m mooooo mooooo mo; moo moo mooo moo moooooooo moooo,

a curious involved worming and undulation in the atmosphere over my
m moooooo mooooooo moooooo moo mooooooooo mo moo mooooooooo mooo mo

head. The invariable moisture of my hair, while plunged in deep thought,
mooo. Moo mooooooooo mooooooo mo mo mooo, moooo moooooo mo mooo moooooo,

after six cups of hot tea in my thin shingled attic, of an August noon;
moooo moo mooo mo moo moo mo mo mooo mooooooo moooo, mo mo Mooooo mooo;

this seems an additional argument for the above supposition.
mooo moooo mo mooooooooo mooooooo moo moo moooo moooooooooo.




And how nobly it raises our conceit of the mighty, misty monster, to
Moo moo moooo mo mooooo moo moooooo mo moo mooooo, moooo moooooo, mo

behold him solemnly sailing through a calm tropical sea; his vast, mild
mooooo moo mooooooo moooooo moooooo m mooo mooooooo moo; moo mooo, mooo

head overhung by a canopy of vapour, engendered by his incommunicable
mooo mooooooo mo m mooooo mo mooooo, mooooooooo mo moo mooooooooooooo

contemplations, and that vapour--as you will sometimes see it--glorified
mooooooooooooo, moo mooo mooooo--mo moo mooo moooooooo moo mo--moooooooo

by a rainbow, as if Heaven itself had put its seal upon his thoughts.
mo m moooooo, mo mo Mooooo mooooo moo moo moo mooo mooo moo mooooooo.

For, d'ye see, rainbows do not visit the clear air; they only irradiate
Moo, m'mo moo, mooooooo mo moo moooo moo moooo moo; mooo mooo moooooooo

vapour. And so, through all the thick mists of the dim doubts in my
mooooo. Moo mo, moooooo moo moo moooo moooo mo moo moo mooooo mo mo

mind, divine intuitions now and then shoot, enkindling my fog with a
mooo, mooooo mooooooooo moo moo mooo moooo, mooooooooo mo moo mooo m

heavenly ray. And for this I thank God; for all have doubts; many deny;
mooooooo moo. Moo moo mooo M moooo Moo; moo moo mooo mooooo; mooo mooo;

but doubts or denials, few along with them, have intuitions. Doubts
moo mooooo mo moooooo, moo moooo mooo mooo, mooo mooooooooo. Mooooo

of all things earthly, and intuitions of some things heavenly; this
mo moo mooooo moooooo, moo mooooooooo mo mooo mooooo mooooooo; mooo

combination makes neither believer nor infidel, but makes a man who
moooooooooo moooo moooooo mooooooo moo moooooo, moo moooo m moo moo

regards them both with equal eye.
moooooo mooo mooo mooo moooo moo.










CHAPTER 86. The Tail.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Mooo.







Other poets have warbled the praises of the soft eye of the antelope,
Moooo moooo mooo moooooo moo moooooo mo moo mooo moo mo moo mooooooo,

and the lovely plumage of the bird that never alights; less celestial, I
moo moo mooooo moooooo mo moo mooo mooo moooo moooooo; mooo moooooooo, M

celebrate a tail.
moooooooo m mooo.




Reckoning the largest sized Sperm Whale's tail to begin at that point of
Moooooooo moo moooooo moooo Moooo Moooo'm mooo mo moooo mo mooo moooo mo

the trunk where it tapers to about the girth of a man, it comprises
moo moooo moooo mo mooooo mo moooo moo moooo mo m moo, mo moooooooo

upon its upper surface alone, an area of at least fifty square feet. The
mooo moo moooo moooooo moooo, mo mooo mo mo moooo moooo mooooo mooo. Moo

compact round body of its root expands into two broad, firm, flat palms
moooooo moooo mooo mo moo mooo moooooo mooo moo moooo, mooo, mooo moooo

or flukes, gradually shoaling away to less than an inch in thickness.
mo mooooo, moooooooo mooooooo mooo mo mooo mooo mo mooo mo moooooooo.

At the crotch or junction, these flukes slightly overlap, then sideways
Mo moo mooooo mo mooooooo, moooo mooooo mooooooo moooooo, mooo mooooooo

recede from each other like wings, leaving a wide vacancy between. In
mooooo mooo mooo moooo mooo moooo, moooooo m mooo moooooo moooooo. Mo

no living thing are the lines of beauty more exquisitely defined than in
mo mooooo moooo moo moo moooo mo mooooo mooo moooooooooo moooooo mooo mo

the crescentic borders of these flukes. At its utmost expansion in the
moo mooooooooo moooooo mo moooo mooooo. Mo moo mooooo moooooooo mo moo

full grown whale, the tail will considerably exceed twenty feet across.
mooo moooo moooo, moo mooo mooo mooooooooooo mooooo mooooo mooo mooooo.




The entire member seems a dense webbed bed of welded sinews; but cut
Moo mooooo mooooo moooo m moooo mooooo moo mo mooooo mooooo; moo moo

into it, and you find that three distinct strata compose it:--upper,
mooo mo, moo moo mooo mooo moooo mooooooo mooooo moooooo mo:--moooo,

middle, and lower. The fibres in the upper and lower layers, are
mooooo, moo moooo. Moo mooooo mo moo moooo moo moooo mooooo, moo

long and horizontal; those of the middle one, very short, and running
mooo moo mooooooooo; moooo mo moo mooooo moo, mooo moooo, moo moooooo

crosswise between the outside layers. This triune structure, as much as
moooooooo moooooo moo moooooo mooooo. Mooo mooooo moooooooo, mo mooo mo

anything else, imparts power to the tail. To the student of old Roman
mooooooo mooo, moooooo moooo mo moo mooo. Mo moo moooooo mo moo Moooo

walls, the middle layer will furnish a curious parallel to the thin
moooo, moo mooooo moooo mooo moooooo m moooooo mooooooo mo moo mooo

course of tiles always alternating with the stone in those wonderful
mooooo mo moooo mooooo moooooooooo mooo moo moooo mo moooo moooooooo

relics of the antique, and which undoubtedly contribute so much to the
mooooo mo moo moooooo, moo moooo moooooooooo mooooooooo mo mooo mo moo

great strength of the masonry.
moooo mooooooo mo moo moooooo.




But as if this vast local power in the tendinous tail were not enough,
Moo mo mo mooo mooo moooo moooo mo moo moooooooo mooo mooo moo mooooo,

the whole bulk of the leviathan is knit over with a warp and woof of
moo moooo mooo mo moo moooooooo mo mooo mooo mooo m mooo moo mooo mo

muscular fibres and filaments, which passing on either side the loins
mooooooo mooooo moo moooooooo, moooo moooooo mo mooooo mooo moo moooo

and running down into the flukes, insensibly blend with them, and
moo moooooo mooo mooo moo mooooo, mooooooooo moooo mooo mooo, moo

largely contribute to their might; so that in the tail the confluent
moooooo mooooooooo mo moooo moooo; mo mooo mo moo mooo moo moooooooo

measureless force of the whole whale seems concentrated to a point.
moooooooooo moooo mo moo moooo moooo moooo mooooooooooo mo m moooo.

Could annihilation occur to matter, this were the thing to do it.
Moooo mooooooooooo moooo mo mooooo, mooo mooo moo moooo mo mo mo.




Nor does this--its amazing strength, at all tend to cripple the graceful
Moo mooo mooo--moo moooooo mooooooo, mo moo mooo mo moooooo moo mooooooo

flexion of its motions; where infantileness of ease undulates through
moooooo mo moo moooooo; moooo moooooooooooo mo mooo moooooooo moooooo

a Titanism of power. On the contrary, those motions derive their most
m Mooooooo mo moooo. Mo moo mooooooo, moooo moooooo mooooo moooo mooo

appalling beauty from it. Real strength never impairs beauty or harmony,
moooooooo mooooo mooo mo. Mooo mooooooo moooo moooooo mooooo mo moooooo,

but it often bestows it; and in everything imposingly beautiful,
moo mo moooo moooooo mo; moo mo mooooooooo mooooooooo moooooooo,

strength has much to do with the magic. Take away the tied tendons that
mooooooo moo mooo mo mo mooo moo moooo. Mooo mooo moo mooo moooooo mooo

all over seem bursting from the marble in the carved Hercules, and its
moo mooo mooo mooooooo mooo moo mooooo mo moo mooooo Mooooooo, moo moo

charm would be gone. As devout Eckerman lifted the linen sheet from the
moooo moooo mo mooo. Mo mooooo Mooooooo mooooo moo moooo moooo mooo moo

naked corpse of Goethe, he was overwhelmed with the massive chest of the
moooo mooooo mo Mooooo, mo moo moooooooooo mooo moo moooooo moooo mo moo

man, that seemed as a Roman triumphal arch. When Angelo paints even God
moo, mooo mooooo mo m Moooo moooooooo mooo. Mooo Mooooo mooooo mooo Moo

the Father in human form, mark what robustness is there. And whatever
moo Mooooo mo moooo mooo, mooo mooo mooooooooo mo moooo. Moo mooooooo

they may reveal of the divine love in the Son, the soft, curled,
mooo moo mooooo mo moo mooooo mooo mo moo Moo, moo mooo, mooooo,

hermaphroditical Italian pictures, in which his idea has been most
mooooooooooooooo Moooooo mooooooo, mo moooo moo mooo moo mooo mooo

successfully embodied; these pictures, so destitute as they are of all
mooooooooooo mooooooo; moooo mooooooo, mo moooooooo mo mooo moo mo moo

brawniness, hint nothing of any power, but the mere negative, feminine
mooooooooo, mooo moooooo mo moo moooo, moo moo mooo mooooooo, mooooooo

one of submission and endurance, which on all hands it is conceded, form
moo mo mooooooooo moo moooooooo, moooo mo moo moooo mo mo mooooooo, mooo

the peculiar practical virtues of his teachings.
moo mooooooo moooooooo moooooo mo moo moooooooo.




Such is the subtle elasticity of the organ I treat of, that whether
Mooo mo moo mooooo mooooooooo mo moo moooo M moooo mo, mooo moooooo

wielded in sport, or in earnest, or in anger, whatever be the mood it
moooooo mo moooo, mo mo moooooo, mo mo moooo, mooooooo mo moo mooo mo

be in, its flexions are invariably marked by exceeding grace. Therein no
mo mo, moo mooooooo moo mooooooooo mooooo mo moooooooo moooo. Moooooo mo

fairy's arm can transcend it.
moooo'm moo moo moooooooo mo.




Five great motions are peculiar to it. First, when used as a fin for
Mooo moooo moooooo moo mooooooo mo mo. Moooo, mooo mooo mo m moo moo

progression; Second, when used as a mace in battle; Third, in sweeping;
moooooooooo; Mooooo, mooo mooo mo m mooo mo mooooo; Moooo, mo mooooooo;

Fourth, in lobtailing; Fifth, in peaking flukes.
Mooooo, mo mooooooooo; Moooo, mo moooooo mooooo.




First: Being horizontal in its position, the Leviathan's tail acts in
Moooo: Moooo mooooooooo mo moo mooooooo, moo Moooooooo'm mooo mooo mo

a different manner from the tails of all other sea creatures. It never
m moooooooo mooooo mooo moo moooo mo moo moooo moo moooooooo. Mo moooo

wriggles. In man or fish, wriggling is a sign of inferiority. To the
mooooooo. Mo moo mo mooo, moooooooo mo m mooo mo moooooooooo. Mo moo

whale, his tail is the sole means of propulsion. Scroll-wise coiled
moooo, moo mooo mo moo mooo moooo mo mooooooooo. Mooooo-mooo mooooo

forwards beneath the body, and then rapidly sprung backwards, it is this
mooooooo moooooo moo mooo, moo mooo moooooo mooooo moooooooo, mo mo mooo

which gives that singular darting, leaping motion to the monster when
moooo moooo mooo mooooooo moooooo, moooooo mooooo mo moo moooooo mooo

furiously swimming. His side-fins only serve to steer by.
moooooooo mooooooo. Moo mooo-mooo mooo moooo mo moooo mo.




Second: It is a little significant, that while one sperm whale only
Mooooo: Mo mo m mooooo moooooooooo, mooo moooo moo moooo moooo mooo

fights another sperm whale with his head and jaw, nevertheless, in his
mooooo moooooo moooo moooo mooo moo mooo moo moo, mooooooooooo, mo moo

conflicts with man, he chiefly and contemptuously uses his tail. In
moooooooo mooo moo, mo moooooo moo mooooooooooooo mooo moo mooo. Mo

striking at a boat, he swiftly curves away his flukes from it, and the
mooooooo mo m mooo, mo moooooo mooooo mooo moo mooooo mooo mo, moo moo

blow is only inflicted by the recoil. If it be made in the unobstructed
mooo mo mooo moooooooo mo moo mooooo. Mo mo mo mooo mo moo mooooooooooo

air, especially if it descend to its mark, the stroke is then simply
moo, mooooooooo mo mo moooooo mo moo mooo, moo mooooo mo mooo mooooo

irresistible. No ribs of man or boat can withstand it. Your only
mooooooooooo. Mo mooo mo moo mo mooo moo moooooooo mo. Mooo mooo

salvation lies in eluding it; but if it comes sideways through the
moooooooo mooo mo moooooo mo; moo mo mo moooo mooooooo moooooo moo

opposing water, then partly owing to the light buoyancy of the whale
mooooooo moooo, mooo mooooo moooo mo moo moooo mooooooo mo moo moooo

boat, and the elasticity of its materials, a cracked rib or a dashed
mooo, moo moo mooooooooo mo moo moooooooo, m moooooo moo mo m mooooo

plank or two, a sort of stitch in the side, is generally the most
moooo mo moo, m mooo mo mooooo mo moo mooo, mo moooooooo moo mooo

serious result. These submerged side blows are so often received in the
moooooo mooooo. Moooo moooooooo mooo moooo moo mo moooo mooooooo mo moo

fishery, that they are accounted mere child's play. Some one strips off
moooooo, mooo mooo moo moooooooo mooo moooo'm mooo. Mooo moo mooooo moo

a frock, and the hole is stopped.
m moooo, moo moo mooo mo moooooo.




Third: I cannot demonstrate it, but it seems to me, that in the whale
Moooo: M mooooo moooooooooo mo, moo mo moooo mo mo, mooo mo moo moooo

the sense of touch is concentrated in the tail; for in this respect
moo moooo mo moooo mo mooooooooooo mo moo mooo; moo mo mooo moooooo

there is a delicacy in it only equalled by the daintiness of the
moooo mo m mooooooo mo mo mooo mooooooo mo moo mooooooooo mo moo

elephant's trunk. This delicacy is chiefly evinced in the action of
mooooooo'm moooo. Mooo mooooooo mo moooooo moooooo mo moo mooooo mo

sweeping, when in maidenly gentleness the whale with a certain soft
mooooooo, mooo mo mooooooo mooooooooo moo moooo mooo m moooooo mooo

slowness moves his immense flukes from side to side upon the surface
mooooooo moooo moo moooooo mooooo mooo mooo mo mooo mooo moo moooooo

of the sea; and if he feel but a sailor's whisker, woe to that sailor,
mo moo moo; moo mo mo mooo moo m mooooo'm moooooo, moo mo mooo mooooo,

whiskers and all. What tenderness there is in that preliminary touch!
mooooooo moo moo. Mooo mooooooooo moooo mo mo mooo moooooooooo moooo!

Had this tail any prehensile power, I should straightway bethink me of
Moo mooo mooo moo mooooooooo moooo, M mooooo moooooooooo moooooo mo mo

Darmonodes' elephant that so frequented the flower-market, and with
Mooooooooo' mooooooo mooo mo mooooooooo moo mooooo-mooooo, moo mooo

low salutations presented nosegays to damsels, and then caressed their
moo moooooooooo moooooooo mooooooo mo moooooo, moo mooo mooooooo moooo

zones. On more accounts than one, a pity it is that the whale does not
moooo. Mo mooo mooooooo mooo moo, m mooo mo mo mooo moo moooo mooo moo

possess this prehensile virtue in his tail; for I have heard of yet
moooooo mooo mooooooooo mooooo mo moo mooo; moo M mooo moooo mo moo

another elephant, that when wounded in the fight, curved round his trunk
moooooo mooooooo, mooo mooo moooooo mo moo moooo, mooooo moooo moo moooo

and extracted the dart.
moo moooooooo moo mooo.




Fourth: Stealing unawares upon the whale in the fancied security of the
Mooooo: Mooooooo mooooooo mooo moo moooo mo moo moooooo mooooooo mo moo

middle of solitary seas, you find him unbent from the vast corpulence
mooooo mo mooooooo mooo, moo mooo moo mooooo mooo moo mooo mooooooooo

of his dignity, and kitten-like, he plays on the ocean as if it were a
mo moo moooooo, moo mooooo-mooo, mo moooo mo moo moooo mo mo mo mooo m

hearth. But still you see his power in his play. The broad palms of
mooooo. Moo moooo moo moo moo moooo mo moo mooo. Moo moooo moooo mo

his tail are flirted high into the air; then smiting the surface, the
moo mooo moo moooooo mooo mooo moo moo; mooo moooooo moo moooooo, moo

thunderous concussion resounds for miles. You would almost think a great
mooooooooo mooooooooo mooooooo moo moooo. Moo moooo mooooo moooo m moooo

gun had been discharged; and if you noticed the light wreath of vapour
moo moo mooo mooooooooo; moo mo moo moooooo moo moooo mooooo mo mooooo

from the spiracle at his other extremity, you would think that that was
mooo moo mooooooo mo moo moooo moooooooo, moo moooo moooo mooo mooo moo

the smoke from the touch-hole.
moo moooo mooo moo moooo-mooo.




Fifth: As in the ordinary floating posture of the leviathan the flukes
Moooo: Mo mo moo mooooooo mooooooo moooooo mo moo moooooooo moo mooooo

lie considerably below the level of his back, they are then completely
moo mooooooooooo moooo moo moooo mo moo mooo, mooo moo mooo mooooooooo

out of sight beneath the surface; but when he is about to plunge into
moo mo moooo moooooo moo moooooo; moo mooo mo mo moooo mo mooooo mooo

the deeps, his entire flukes with at least thirty feet of his body are
moo moooo, moo mooooo mooooo mooo mo moooo mooooo mooo mo moo mooo moo

tossed erect in the air, and so remain vibrating a moment, till they
mooooo moooo mo moo moo, moo mo mooooo moooooooo m mooooo, mooo mooo

downwards shoot out of view. Excepting the sublime BREACH--somewhere
moooooooo moooo moo mo mooo. Moooooooo moo moooooo MOOOOO--moooooooo

else to be described--this peaking of the whale's flukes is perhaps the
mooo mo mo moooooooo--mooo moooooo mo moo moooo'm mooooo mo moooooo moo

grandest sight to be seen in all animated nature. Out of the bottomless
mooooooo moooo mo mo mooo mo moo mooooooo mooooo. Moo mo moo mooooooooo

profundities the gigantic tail seems spasmodically snatching at the
mooooooooooo moo mooooooo mooo moooo moooooooooooo moooooooo mo moo

highest heaven. So in dreams, have I seen majestic Satan thrusting forth
moooooo mooooo. Mo mo mooooo, mooo M mooo mooooooo Moooo moooooooo moooo

his tormented colossal claw from the flame Baltic of Hell. But in
moo moooooooo mooooooo mooo mooo moo moooo Mooooo mo Mooo. Moo mo

gazing at such scenes, it is all in all what mood you are in; if in
mooooo mo mooo mooooo, mo mo moo mo moo mooo mooo moo moo mo; mo mo

the Dantean, the devils will occur to you; if in that of Isaiah, the
moo Moooooo, moo mooooo mooo moooo mo moo; mo mo mooo mo Mooooo, moo

archangels. Standing at the mast-head of my ship during a sunrise that
mooooooooo. Mooooooo mo moo mooo-mooo mo mo mooo mooooo m moooooo mooo

crimsoned sky and sea, I once saw a large herd of whales in the east,
moooooooo moo moo moo, M mooo moo m moooo mooo mo mooooo mo moo mooo,

all heading towards the sun, and for a moment vibrating in concert with
moo moooooo moooooo moo moo, moo moo m mooooo moooooooo mo moooooo mooo

peaked flukes. As it seemed to me at the time, such a grand embodiment
mooooo mooooo. Mo mo mooooo mo mo mo moo mooo, mooo m moooo mooooooooo

of adoration of the gods was never beheld, even in Persia, the home of
mo moooooooo mo moo mooo moo moooo mooooo, mooo mo Mooooo, moo mooo mo

the fire worshippers. As Ptolemy Philopater testified of the African
moo mooo moooooooooo. Mo Moooooo Mooooooooo moooooooo mo moo Moooooo

elephant, I then testified of the whale, pronouncing him the most devout
mooooooo, M mooo moooooooo mo moo moooo, moooooooooo moo moo mooo mooooo

of all beings. For according to King Juba, the military elephants of
mo moo mooooo. Moo moooooooo mo Mooo Mooo, moo mooooooo moooooooo mo

antiquity often hailed the morning with their trunks uplifted in the
moooooooo moooo mooooo moo moooooo mooo moooo mooooo mooooooo mo moo

profoundest silence.
moooooooooo moooooo.




The chance comparison in this chapter, between the whale and the
Moo mooooo mooooooooo mo mooo moooooo, moooooo moo moooo moo moo

elephant, so far as some aspects of the tail of the one and the trunk
mooooooo, mo moo mo mooo moooooo mo moo mooo mo moo moo moo moo moooo

of the other are concerned, should not tend to place those two
mo moo moooo moo moooooooo, mooooo moo mooo mo moooo moooo moo

opposite organs on an equality, much less the creatures to which they
mooooooo mooooo mo mo mooooooo, mooo mooo moo moooooooo mo moooo mooo

respectively belong. For as the mightiest elephant is but a terrier
mooooooooooo mooooo. Moo mo moo moooooooo mooooooo mo moo m moooooo

to Leviathan, so, compared with Leviathan's tail, his trunk is but the
mo Moooooooo, mo, mooooooo mooo Moooooooo'm mooo, moo moooo mo moo moo

stalk of a lily. The most direful blow from the elephant's trunk were as
moooo mo m mooo. Moo mooo moooooo mooo mooo moo mooooooo'm moooo mooo mo

the playful tap of a fan, compared with the measureless crush and crash
moo moooooo moo mo m moo, mooooooo mooo moo moooooooooo moooo moo moooo

of the sperm whale's ponderous flukes, which in repeated instances have
mo moo moooo moooo'm moooooooo mooooo, moooo mo mooooooo moooooooo mooo

one after the other hurled entire boats with all their oars and crews
moo moooo moo moooo mooooo mooooo moooo mooo moo moooo mooo moo moooo

into the air, very much as an Indian juggler tosses his balls.*
mooo moo moo, mooo mooo mo mo Mooooo moooooo mooooo moo moooo.*







*Though all comparison in the way of general bulk between the whale
*Mooooo moo mooooooooo mo moo moo mo moooooo mooo moooooo moo moooo

and the elephant is preposterous, inasmuch as in that particular the
moo moo mooooooo mo mooooooooooo, mooooooo mo mo mooo mooooooooo moo

elephant stands in much the same respect to the whale that a dog does to
mooooooo mooooo mo mooo moo mooo moooooo mo moo moooo mooo m moo mooo mo

the elephant; nevertheless, there are not wanting some points of curious
moo mooooooo; mooooooooooo, moooo moo moo moooooo mooo mooooo mo moooooo

similitude; among these is the spout. It is well known that the elephant
mooooooooo; moooo moooo mo moo moooo. Mo mo mooo moooo mooo moo mooooooo

will often draw up water or dust in his trunk, and then elevating it,
mooo moooo mooo mo moooo mo mooo mo moo moooo, moo mooo moooooooo mo,

jet it forth in a stream.
moo mo moooo mo m mooooo.







The more I consider this mighty tail, the more do I deplore my inability
Moo mooo M mooooooo mooo mooooo mooo, moo mooo mo M moooooo mo moooooooo

to express it. At times there are gestures in it, which, though they
mo moooooo mo. Mo moooo moooo moo mooooooo mo mo, moooo, mooooo mooo

would well grace the hand of man, remain wholly inexplicable. In an
moooo mooo moooo moo mooo mo moo, mooooo mooooo mooooooooooo. Mo mo

extensive herd, so remarkable, occasionally, are these mystic gestures,
moooooooo mooo, mo mooooooooo, mooooooooooo, moo moooo mooooo mooooooo,

that I have heard hunters who have declared them akin to Free-Mason
mooo M mooo moooo moooooo moo mooo mooooooo mooo mooo mo Mooo-Moooo

signs and symbols; that the whale, indeed, by these methods
moooo moo moooooo; mooo moo moooo, mooooo, mo moooo moooooo

intelligently conversed with the world. Nor are there wanting other
moooooooooooo moooooooo mooo moo moooo. Moo moo moooo moooooo moooo

motions of the whale in his general body, full of strangeness, and
moooooo mo moo moooo mo moo moooooo mooo, mooo mo moooooooooo, moo

unaccountable to his most experienced assailant. Dissect him how I may,
moooooooooooo mo moo mooo moooooooooo moooooooo. Moooooo moo moo M moo,

then, I but go skin deep; I know him not, and never will. But if I know
mooo, M moo mo mooo mooo; M mooo moo moo, moo moooo mooo. Moo mo M mooo

not even the tail of this whale, how understand his head? much more,
moo mooo moo mooo mo mooo moooo, moo mooooooooo moo mooo? mooo mooo,

how comprehend his face, when face he has none? Thou shalt see my back
moo mooooooooo moo mooo, mooo mooo mo moo mooo? Mooo moooo moo mo mooo

parts, my tail, he seems to say, but my face shall not be seen. But I
moooo, mo mooo, mo moooo mo moo, moo mo mooo moooo moo mo mooo. Moo M

cannot completely make out his back parts; and hint what he will about
mooooo mooooooooo mooo moo moo mooo moooo; moo mooo mooo mo mooo moooo

his face, I say again he has no face.
moo mooo, M moo moooo mo moo mo mooo.










CHAPTER 87. The Grand Armada.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Moooo Mooooo.







The long and narrow peninsula of Malacca, extending south-eastward from
Moo mooo moo mooooo moooooooo mo Moooooo, moooooooo moooo-mooooooo mooo

the territories of Birmah, forms the most southerly point of all Asia.
moo moooooooooo mo Mooooo, moooo moo mooo moooooooo moooo mo moo Mooo.

In a continuous line from that peninsula stretch the long islands of
Mo m mooooooooo mooo mooo mooo moooooooo moooooo moo mooo moooooo mo

Sumatra, Java, Bally, and Timor; which, with many others, form a
Moooooo, Mooo, Moooo, moo Moooo; moooo, mooo mooo mooooo, mooo m

vast mole, or rampart, lengthwise connecting Asia with Australia,
mooo mooo, mo moooooo, mooooooooo mooooooooo Mooo mooo Moooooooo,

and dividing the long unbroken Indian ocean from the thickly studded
moo mooooooo moo mooo mooooooo Mooooo moooo mooo moo moooooo moooooo

oriental archipelagoes. This rampart is pierced by several sally-ports
mooooooo moooooooooooo. Mooo moooooo mo moooooo mo moooooo moooo-moooo

for the convenience of ships and whales; conspicuous among which are the
moo moo moooooooooo mo moooo moo mooooo; moooooooooo moooo moooo moo moo

straits of Sunda and Malacca. By the straits of Sunda, chiefly, vessels
moooooo mo Moooo moo Moooooo. Mo moo moooooo mo Moooo, moooooo, moooooo

bound to China from the west, emerge into the China seas.
moooo mo Moooo mooo moo mooo, mooooo mooo moo Moooo mooo.




Those narrow straits of Sunda divide Sumatra from Java; and standing
Moooo mooooo moooooo mo Moooo mooooo Moooooo mooo Mooo; moo mooooooo

midway in that vast rampart of islands, buttressed by that bold green
mooooo mo mooo mooo moooooo mo moooooo, mooooooooo mo mooo mooo moooo

promontory, known to seamen as Java Head; they not a little correspond
mooooooooo, moooo mo mooooo mo Mooo Mooo; mooo moo m mooooo mooooooooo

to the central gateway opening into some vast walled empire: and
mo moo moooooo moooooo moooooo mooo mooo mooo mooooo mooooo: moo

considering the inexhaustible wealth of spices, and silks, and jewels,
moooooooooo moo moooooooooooo mooooo mo mooooo, moo moooo, moo mooooo,

and gold, and ivory, with which the thousand islands of that oriental
moo mooo, moo moooo, mooo moooo moo mooooooo moooooo mo mooo mooooooo

sea are enriched, it seems a significant provision of nature, that such
moo moo mooooooo, mo moooo m moooooooooo moooooooo mo mooooo, mooo mooo

treasures, by the very formation of the land, should at least bear the
moooooooo, mo moo mooo moooooooo mo moo mooo, mooooo mo moooo mooo moo

appearance, however ineffectual, of being guarded from the all-grasping
mooooooooo, moooooo moooooooooo, mo moooo moooooo mooo moo moo-mooooooo

western world. The shores of the Straits of Sunda are unsupplied
moooooo moooo. Moo mooooo mo moo Moooooo mo Moooo moo mooooooooo

with those domineering fortresses which guard the entrances to the
mooo moooo moooooooooo mooooooooo moooo moooo moo moooooooo mo moo

Mediterranean, the Baltic, and the Propontis. Unlike the Danes, these
Moooooooooooo, moo Mooooo, moo moo Moooooooo. Mooooo moo Moooo, moooo

Orientals do not demand the obsequious homage of lowered top-sails from
Moooooooo mo moo mooooo moo mooooooooo mooooo mo moooooo moo-moooo mooo

the endless procession of ships before the wind, which for centuries
moo moooooo mooooooooo mo moooo mooooo moo mooo, moooo moo moooooooo

past, by night and by day, have passed between the islands of Sumatra
mooo, mo moooo moo mo moo, mooo mooooo moooooo moo moooooo mo Moooooo

and Java, freighted with the costliest cargoes of the east. But while
moo Mooo, moooooooo mooo moo moooooooo moooooo mo moo mooo. Moo moooo

they freely waive a ceremonial like this, they do by no means renounce
mooo mooooo moooo m mooooooooo mooo mooo, mooo mo mo mo moooo mooooooo

their claim to more solid tribute.
moooo moooo mo mooo moooo moooooo.




Time out of mind the piratical proas of the Malays, lurking among
Mooo moo mo mooo moo moooooooo moooo mo moo Mooooo, moooooo moooo

the low shaded coves and islets of Sumatra, have sallied out upon the
moo moo mooooo moooo moo mooooo mo Moooooo, mooo moooooo moo mooo moo

vessels sailing through the straits, fiercely demanding tribute at the
moooooo moooooo moooooo moo moooooo, mooooooo moooooooo moooooo mo moo

point of their spears. Though by the repeated bloody chastisements they
moooo mo moooo mooooo. Mooooo mo moo mooooooo mooooo moooooooooooo mooo

have received at the hands of European cruisers, the audacity of these
mooo mooooooo mo moo moooo mo Mooooooo mooooooo, moo mooooooo mo moooo

corsairs has of late been somewhat repressed; yet, even at the present
mooooooo moo mo mooo mooo mooooooo moooooooo; moo, mooo mo moo moooooo

day, we occasionally hear of English and American vessels, which, in
moo, mo mooooooooooo mooo mo Moooooo moo Mooooooo moooooo, moooo, mo

those waters, have been remorselessly boarded and pillaged.
moooo mooooo, mooo mooo moooooooooooo moooooo moo mooooooo.




With a fair, fresh wind, the Pequod was now drawing nigh to these
Mooo m mooo, moooo mooo, moo Mooooo moo moo moooooo mooo mo moooo

straits; Ahab purposing to pass through them into the Javan sea, and
moooooo; Mooo moooooooo mo mooo moooooo mooo mooo moo Moooo moo, moo

thence, cruising northwards, over waters known to be frequented here and
mooooo, mooooooo mooooooooo, mooo mooooo moooo mo mo mooooooooo mooo moo

there by the Sperm Whale, sweep inshore by the Philippine Islands, and
moooo mo moo Moooo Moooo, moooo moooooo mo moo Mooooooooo Moooooo, moo

gain the far coast of Japan, in time for the great whaling season there.
mooo moo moo moooo mo Moooo, mo mooo moo moo moooo moooooo mooooo moooo.

By these means, the circumnavigating Pequod would sweep almost all the
Mo moooo moooo, moo mooooooooooooooo Mooooo moooo moooo mooooo moo moo

known Sperm Whale cruising grounds of the world, previous to descending
moooo Moooo Moooo mooooooo moooooo mo moo moooo, mooooooo mo mooooooooo

upon the Line in the Pacific; where Ahab, though everywhere else foiled
mooo moo Mooo mo moo Moooooo; moooo Mooo, mooooo mooooooooo mooo mooooo

in his pursuit, firmly counted upon giving battle to Moby Dick, in the
mo moo moooooo, mooooo moooooo mooo mooooo mooooo mo Mooo Mooo, mo moo

sea he was most known to frequent; and at a season when he might most
moo mo moo mooo moooo mo mooooooo; moo mo m mooooo mooo mo moooo mooo

reasonably be presumed to be haunting it.
mooooooooo mo mooooooo mo mo mooooooo mo.




But how now? in this zoned quest, does Ahab touch no land? does his crew
Moo moo moo? mo mooo moooo moooo, mooo Mooo moooo mo mooo? mooo moo mooo

drink air? Surely, he will stop for water. Nay. For a long time, now,
moooo moo? Mooooo, mo mooo mooo moo moooo. Moo. Moo m mooo mooo, moo,

the circus-running sun has raced within his fiery ring, and needs
moo mooooo-moooooo moo moo moooo mooooo moo moooo mooo, moo moooo

no sustenance but what's in himself. So Ahab. Mark this, too, in the
mo mooooooooo moo mooo'm mo moooooo. Mo Mooo. Mooo mooo, moo, mo moo

whaler. While other hulls are loaded down with alien stuff, to be
mooooo. Moooo moooo moooo moo mooooo mooo mooo moooo moooo, mo mo

transferred to foreign wharves; the world-wandering whale-ship carries
moooooooooo mo moooooo moooooo; moo moooo-moooooooo moooo-mooo moooooo

no cargo but herself and crew, their weapons and their wants. She has a
mo moooo moo moooooo moo mooo, moooo moooooo moo moooo moooo. Moo moo m

whole lake's contents bottled in her ample hold. She is ballasted with
moooo mooo'm mooooooo moooooo mo moo moooo mooo. Moo mo moooooooo mooo

utilities; not altogether with unusable pig-lead and kentledge. She
moooooooo; moo mooooooooo mooo mooooooo moo-mooo moo moooooooo. Moo

carries years' water in her. Clear old prime Nantucket water; which,
moooooo moooo' moooo mo moo. Moooo moo moooo Moooooooo moooo; moooo,

when three years afloat, the Nantucketer, in the Pacific, prefers to
mooo moooo moooo mooooo, moo Moooooooooo, mo moo Moooooo, moooooo mo

drink before the brackish fluid, but yesterday rafted off in casks, from
moooo mooooo moo mooooooo moooo, moo moooooooo mooooo moo mo moooo, mooo

the Peruvian or Indian streams. Hence it is, that, while other ships may
moo Mooooooo mo Mooooo moooooo. Moooo mo mo, mooo, moooo moooo moooo moo

have gone to China from New York, and back again, touching at a score
mooo mooo mo Moooo mooo Moo Mooo, moo mooo moooo, mooooooo mo m moooo

of ports, the whale-ship, in all that interval, may not have sighted
mo moooo, moo moooo-mooo, mo moo mooo mooooooo, moo moo mooo moooooo

one grain of soil; her crew having seen no man but floating seamen like
moo moooo mo mooo; moo mooo mooooo mooo mo moo moo mooooooo mooooo mooo

themselves. So that did you carry them the news that another flood had
mooooooooo. Mo mooo moo moo moooo mooo moo mooo mooo moooooo moooo moo

come; they would only answer--"Well, boys, here's the ark!"
mooo; mooo moooo mooo mooooo--"Mooo, mooo, mooo'm moo moo!"




Now, as many Sperm Whales had been captured off the western coast of
Moo, mo mooo Moooo Mooooo moo mooo mooooooo moo moo moooooo moooo mo

Java, in the near vicinity of the Straits of Sunda; indeed, as most of
Mooo, mo moo mooo mooooooo mo moo Moooooo mo Moooo; mooooo, mo mooo mo

the ground, roundabout, was generally recognised by the fishermen as an
moo mooooo, mooooooooo, moo moooooooo mooooooooo mo moo moooooooo mo mo

excellent spot for cruising; therefore, as the Pequod gained more
moooooooo mooo moo mooooooo; moooooooo, mo moo Mooooo mooooo mooo

and more upon Java Head, the look-outs were repeatedly hailed, and
moo mooo mooo Mooo Mooo, moo mooo-mooo mooo mooooooooo mooooo, moo

admonished to keep wide awake. But though the green palmy cliffs of the
mooooooooo mo mooo mooo moooo. Moo mooooo moo moooo moooo mooooo mo moo

land soon loomed on the starboard bow, and with delighted nostrils
mooo mooo mooooo mo moo moooooooo moo, moo mooo moooooooo mooooooo

the fresh cinnamon was snuffed in the air, yet not a single jet was
moo moooo mooooooo moo moooooo mo moo moo, moo moo m mooooo moo moo

descried. Almost renouncing all thought of falling in with any game
mooooooo. Mooooo mooooooooo moo moooooo mo moooooo mo mooo moo mooo

hereabouts, the ship had well nigh entered the straits, when the
mooooooooo, moo mooo moo mooo mooo moooooo moo moooooo, mooo moo

customary cheering cry was heard from aloft, and ere long a spectacle of
moooooooo mooooooo moo moo moooo mooo moooo, moo moo mooo m moooooooo mo

singular magnificence saluted us.
mooooooo mooooooooooo moooooo mo.




But here be it premised, that owing to the unwearied activity with which
Moo mooo mo mo mooooooo, mooo moooo mo moo moooooooo mooooooo mooo moooo

of late they have been hunted over all four oceans, the Sperm Whales,
mo mooo mooo mooo mooo mooooo mooo moo mooo mooooo, moo Moooo Mooooo,

instead of almost invariably sailing in small detached companies, as in
moooooo mo mooooo mooooooooo moooooo mo moooo mooooooo moooooooo, mo mo

former times, are now frequently met with in extensive herds, sometimes
mooooo moooo, moo moo mooooooooo moo mooo mo moooooooo moooo, moooooooo

embracing so great a multitude, that it would almost seem as if
moooooooo mo moooo m moooooooo, mooo mo moooo mooooo mooo mo mo

numerous nations of them had sworn solemn league and covenant for mutual
mooooooo moooooo mo mooo moo moooo mooooo mooooo moo mooooooo moo mooooo

assistance and protection. To this aggregation of the Sperm Whale into
mooooooooo moo mooooooooo. Mo mooo moooooooooo mo moo Moooo Moooo mooo

such immense caravans, may be imputed the circumstance that even in the
mooo moooooo mooooooo, moo mo moooooo moo mooooooooooo mooo mooo mo moo

best cruising grounds, you may now sometimes sail for weeks and months
mooo mooooooo moooooo, moo moo moo moooooooo mooo moo moooo moo mooooo

together, without being greeted by a single spout; and then be suddenly
mooooooo, moooooo moooo moooooo mo m mooooo moooo; moo mooo mo mooooooo

saluted by what sometimes seems thousands on thousands.
moooooo mo mooo moooooooo moooo moooooooo mo moooooooo.




Broad on both bows, at the distance of some two or three miles, and
Moooo mo mooo mooo, mo moo mooooooo mo mooo moo mo moooo moooo, moo

forming a great semicircle, embracing one half of the level horizon,
moooooo m moooo mooooooooo, moooooooo moo mooo mo moo moooo moooooo,

a continuous chain of whale-jets were up-playing and sparkling in the
m mooooooooo moooo mo moooo-mooo mooo mo-moooooo moo moooooooo mo moo

noon-day air. Unlike the straight perpendicular twin-jets of the Right
mooo-moo moo. Mooooo moo mooooooo moooooooooooo mooo-mooo mo moo Moooo

Whale, which, dividing at top, fall over in two branches, like the cleft
Moooo, moooo, mooooooo mo moo, mooo mooo mo moo mooooooo, mooo moo moooo

drooping boughs of a willow, the single forward-slanting spout of the
mooooooo mooooo mo m mooooo, moo mooooo moooooo-mooooooo moooo mo moo

Sperm Whale presents a thick curled bush of white mist, continually
Moooo Moooo mooooooo m moooo mooooo mooo mo moooo mooo, moooooooooo

rising and falling away to leeward.
mooooo moo moooooo mooo mo moooooo.




Seen from the Pequod's deck, then, as she would rise on a high hill of
Mooo mooo moo Mooooo'm mooo, mooo, mo moo moooo mooo mo m mooo mooo mo

the sea, this host of vapoury spouts, individually curling up into the
moo moo, mooo mooo mo moooooo mooooo, mooooooooooo moooooo mo mooo moo

air, and beheld through a blending atmosphere of bluish haze, showed
moo, moo mooooo moooooo m mooooooo mooooooooo mo mooooo mooo, mooooo

like the thousand cheerful chimneys of some dense metropolis, descried
mooo moo mooooooo mooooooo mooooooo mo mooo moooo mooooooooo, mooooooo

of a balmy autumnal morning, by some horseman on a height.
mo m moooo mooooooo moooooo, mo mooo mooooooo mo m mooooo.




As marching armies approaching an unfriendly defile in the mountains,
Mo mooooooo mooooo moooooooooo mo mooooooooo mooooo mo moo moooooooo,

accelerate their march, all eagerness to place that perilous passage in
mooooooooo moooo moooo, moo moooooooo mo moooo mooo mooooooo moooooo mo

their rear, and once more expand in comparative security upon the plain;
moooo mooo, moo mooo mooo mooooo mo moooooooooo mooooooo mooo moo moooo;

even so did this vast fleet of whales now seem hurrying forward through
mooo mo moo mooo mooo moooo mo mooooo moo mooo mooooooo moooooo moooooo

the straits; gradually contracting the wings of their semicircle, and
moo moooooo; moooooooo moooooooooo moo moooo mo moooo mooooooooo, moo

swimming on, in one solid, but still crescentic centre.
mooooooo mo, mo moo moooo, moo moooo mooooooooo mooooo.




Crowding all sail the Pequod pressed after them; the harpooneers
Mooooooo moo mooo moo Mooooo moooooo moooo mooo; moo moooooooooo

handling their weapons, and loudly cheering from the heads of their
mooooooo moooo moooooo, moo mooooo mooooooo mooo moo moooo mo moooo

yet suspended boats. If the wind only held, little doubt had they, that
moo moooooooo moooo. Mo moo mooo mooo mooo, mooooo moooo moo mooo, mooo

chased through these Straits of Sunda, the vast host would only deploy
mooooo moooooo moooo Moooooo mo Moooo, moo mooo mooo moooo mooo mooooo

into the Oriental seas to witness the capture of not a few of their
mooo moo Mooooooo mooo mo moooooo moo moooooo mo moo m moo mo moooo

number. And who could tell whether, in that congregated caravan, Moby
mooooo. Moo moo moooo mooo moooooo, mo mooo moooooooooo moooooo, Mooo

Dick himself might not temporarily be swimming, like the worshipped
Mooo moooooo moooo moo moooooooooo mo mooooooo, mooo moo mooooooooo

white-elephant in the coronation procession of the Siamese! So with
moooo-mooooooo mo moo mooooooooo mooooooooo mo moo Moooooo! Mo mooo

stun-sail piled on stun-sail, we sailed along, driving these leviathans
mooo-mooo moooo mo mooo-mooo, mo mooooo moooo, moooooo moooo mooooooooo

before us; when, of a sudden, the voice of Tashtego was heard, loudly
mooooo mo; mooo, mo m mooooo, moo moooo mo Mooooooo moo moooo, mooooo

directing attention to something in our wake.
moooooooo moooooooo mo moooooooo mo moo mooo.




Corresponding to the crescent in our van, we beheld another in our rear.
Moooooooooooo mo moo mooooooo mo moo moo, mo mooooo moooooo mo moo mooo.

It seemed formed of detached white vapours, rising and falling something
Mo mooooo mooooo mo mooooooo moooo moooooo, mooooo moo moooooo moooooooo

like the spouts of the whales; only they did not so completely come and
mooo moo mooooo mo moo mooooo; mooo mooo moo moo mo mooooooooo mooo moo

go; for they constantly hovered, without finally disappearing. Levelling
mo; moo mooo mooooooooo moooooo, moooooo moooooo mooooooooooo. Moooooooo

his glass at this sight, Ahab quickly revolved in his pivot-hole,
moo moooo mo mooo moooo, Mooo moooooo mooooooo mo moo moooo-mooo,

crying, "Aloft there, and rig whips and buckets to wet the
mooooo, "Moooo moooo, moo moo moooo moo moooooo mo moo moo

sails;--Malays, sir, and after us!"
moooo;--Mooooo, moo, moo moooo mo!"




As if too long lurking behind the headlands, till the Pequod should
Mo mo moo mooo moooooo mooooo moo moooooooo, mooo moo Mooooo mooooo

fairly have entered the straits, these rascally Asiatics were now in hot
mooooo mooo moooooo moo moooooo, moooo mooooooo Mooooooo mooo moo mo moo

pursuit, to make up for their over-cautious delay. But when the swift
moooooo, mo mooo mo moo moooo mooo-mooooooo moooo. Moo mooo moo moooo

Pequod, with a fresh leading wind, was herself in hot chase; how very
Mooooo, mooo m moooo moooooo mooo, moo moooooo mo moo moooo; moo mooo

kind of these tawny philanthropists to assist in speeding her on to
mooo mo moooo moooo moooooooooooooo mo mooooo mo mooooooo moo mo mo

her own chosen pursuit,--mere riding-whips and rowels to her, that they
moo moo mooooo moooooo,--mooo mooooo-moooo moo mooooo mo moo, mooo mooo

were. As with glass under arm, Ahab to-and-fro paced the deck; in his
mooo. Mo mooo moooo moooo moo, Mooo mo-moo-moo moooo moo mooo; mo moo

forward turn beholding the monsters he chased, and in the after one the
moooooo mooo moooooooo moo mooooooo mo mooooo, moo mo moo moooo moo moo

bloodthirsty pirates chasing him; some such fancy as the above seemed
mooooooooooo moooooo moooooo moo; mooo mooo moooo mo moo moooo mooooo

his. And when he glanced upon the green walls of the watery defile in
moo. Moo mooo mo moooooo mooo moo moooo moooo mo moo mooooo mooooo mo

which the ship was then sailing, and bethought him that through that
moooo moo mooo moo mooo moooooo, moo moooooooo moo mooo moooooo mooo

gate lay the route to his vengeance, and beheld, how that through that
mooo moo moo moooo mo moo moooooooo, moo mooooo, moo mooo moooooo mooo

same gate he was now both chasing and being chased to his deadly end;
mooo mooo mo moo moo mooo moooooo moo moooo mooooo mo moo mooooo moo;

and not only that, but a herd of remorseless wild pirates and
moo moo mooo mooo, moo m mooo mo moooooooooo mooo moooooo moo

inhuman atheistical devils were infernally cheering him on with their
moooooo moooooooooo mooooo mooo mooooooooo mooooooo moo mo mooo moooo

curses;--when all these conceits had passed through his brain, Ahab's
mooooo;--mooo moo moooo mooooooo moo mooooo moooooo moo moooo, Mooo'm

brow was left gaunt and ribbed, like the black sand beach after some
mooo moo mooo moooo moo mooooo, mooo moo moooo mooo moooo moooo mooo

stormy tide has been gnawing it, without being able to drag the firm
mooooo mooo moo mooo moooooo mo, moooooo moooo mooo mo mooo moo mooo

thing from its place.
moooo mooo moo moooo.




But thoughts like these troubled very few of the reckless crew; and
Moo mooooooo mooo moooo mooooooo mooo moo mo moo mooooooo mooo; moo

when, after steadily dropping and dropping the pirates astern, the
mooo, moooo mooooooo mooooooo moo mooooooo moo moooooo mooooo, moo

Pequod at last shot by the vivid green Cockatoo Point on the Sumatra
Mooooo mo mooo mooo mo moo moooo moooo Mooooooo Moooo mo moo Moooooo

side, emerging at last upon the broad waters beyond; then, the
mooo, mooooooo mo mooo mooo moo moooo mooooo mooooo; mooo, moo

harpooneers seemed more to grieve that the swift whales had been gaining
moooooooooo mooooo mooo mo mooooo mooo moo moooo mooooo moo mooo moooooo

upon the ship, than to rejoice that the ship had so victoriously gained
mooo moo mooo, mooo mo moooooo mooo moo mooo moo mo mooooooooooo mooooo

upon the Malays. But still driving on in the wake of the whales, at
mooo moo Mooooo. Moo moooo moooooo mo mo moo mooo mo moo mooooo, mo

length they seemed abating their speed; gradually the ship neared them;
mooooo mooo mooooo moooooo moooo moooo; moooooooo moo mooo mooooo mooo;

and the wind now dying away, word was passed to spring to the boats. But
moo moo mooo moo moooo mooo, mooo moo mooooo mo mooooo mo moo moooo. Moo

no sooner did the herd, by some presumed wonderful instinct of the Sperm
mo mooooo moo moo mooo, mo mooo mooooooo moooooooo mooooooo mo moo Moooo

Whale, become notified of the three keels that were after them,--though
Moooo, mooooo mooooooo mo moo moooo moooo mooo mooo moooo mooo,--mooooo

as yet a mile in their rear,--than they rallied again, and forming
mo moo m mooo mo moooo mooo,--mooo mooo moooooo moooo, moo moooooo

in close ranks and battalions, so that their spouts all looked like
mo moooo moooo moo mooooooooo, mo mooo moooo mooooo moo mooooo mooo

flashing lines of stacked bayonets, moved on with redoubled velocity.
mooooooo moooo mo moooooo mooooooo, moooo mo mooo moooooooo mooooooo.




Stripped to our shirts and drawers, we sprang to the white-ash, and
Mooooooo mo moo mooooo moo moooooo, mo mooooo mo moo moooo-moo, moo

after several hours' pulling were almost disposed to renounce the chase,
moooo moooooo moooo' moooooo mooo mooooo mooooooo mo mooooooo moo moooo,

when a general pausing commotion among the whales gave animating
mooo m moooooo moooooo moooooooo moooo moo mooooo mooo moooooooo

token that they were now at last under the influence of that strange
moooo mooo mooo mooo moo mo mooo moooo moo moooooooo mo mooo moooooo

perplexity of inert irresolution, which, when the fishermen perceive
mooooooooo mo moooo mooooooooooo, moooo, mooo moo moooooooo mooooooo

it in the whale, they say he is gallied. The compact martial columns
mo mo moo moooo, mooo moo mo mo moooooo. Moo moooooo moooooo moooooo

in which they had been hitherto rapidly and steadily swimming, were now
mo moooo mooo moo mooo mooooooo moooooo moo mooooooo mooooooo, mooo moo

broken up in one measureless rout; and like King Porus' elephants in the
mooooo mo mo moo moooooooooo mooo; moo mooo Mooo Moooo' moooooooo mo moo

Indian battle with Alexander, they seemed going mad with consternation.
Mooooo mooooo mooo Moooooooo, mooo mooooo moooo moo mooo moooooooooooo.

In all directions expanding in vast irregular circles, and aimlessly
Mo moo mooooooooo moooooooo mo mooo moooooooo moooooo, moo moooooooo

swimming hither and thither, by their short thick spoutings, they
mooooooo mooooo moo moooooo, mo moooo moooo moooo moooooooo, mooo

plainly betrayed their distraction of panic. This was still more
moooooo mooooooo moooo moooooooooo mo moooo. Mooo moo moooo mooo

strangely evinced by those of their number, who, completely paralysed
moooooooo moooooo mo moooo mo moooo mooooo, moo, mooooooooo moooooooo

as it were, helplessly floated like water-logged dismantled ships on the
mo mo mooo, mooooooooo moooooo mooo moooo-mooooo mooooooooo moooo mo moo

sea. Had these Leviathans been but a flock of simple sheep, pursued over
moo. Moo moooo Mooooooooo mooo moo m moooo mo mooooo moooo, moooooo mooo

the pasture by three fierce wolves, they could not possibly have evinced
moo moooooo mo moooo mooooo mooooo, mooo moooo moo mooooooo mooo moooooo

such excessive dismay. But this occasional timidity is characteristic
mooo moooooooo mooooo. Moo mooo mooooooooo mooooooo mo mooooooooooooo

of almost all herding creatures. Though banding together in tens of
mo mooooo moo moooooo moooooooo. Mooooo moooooo mooooooo mo mooo mo

thousands, the lion-maned buffaloes of the West have fled before a
moooooooo, moo mooo-moooo moooooooo mo moo Mooo mooo mooo mooooo m

solitary horseman. Witness, too, all human beings, how when herded
mooooooo mooooooo. Moooooo, moo, moo moooo mooooo, moo mooo mooooo

together in the sheepfold of a theatre's pit, they will, at the
mooooooo mo moo moooooooo mo m moooooo'm moo, mooo mooo, mo moo

slightest alarm of fire, rush helter-skelter for the outlets, crowding,
moooooooo moooo mo mooo, mooo mooooo-moooooo moo moo moooooo, mooooooo,

trampling, jamming, and remorselessly dashing each other to death. Best,
moooooooo, moooooo, moo moooooooooooo moooooo mooo moooo mo moooo. Mooo,

therefore, withhold any amazement at the strangely gallied whales
moooooooo, mooooooo moo moooooooo mo moo moooooooo moooooo mooooo

before us, for there is no folly of the beasts of the earth which is not
mooooo mo, moo moooo mo mo moooo mo moo mooooo mo moo moooo moooo mo moo

infinitely outdone by the madness of men.
mooooooooo moooooo mo moo moooooo mo moo.




Though many of the whales, as has been said, were in violent motion,
Mooooo mooo mo moo mooooo, mo moo mooo mooo, mooo mo moooooo mooooo,

yet it is to be observed that as a whole the herd neither advanced nor
moo mo mo mo mo mooooooo mooo mo m moooo moo mooo moooooo mooooooo moo

retreated, but collectively remained in one place. As is customary in
moooooooo, moo mooooooooooo mooooooo mo moo moooo. Mo mo moooooooo mo

those cases, the boats at once separated, each making for some one
moooo moooo, moo moooo mo mooo moooooooo, mooo mooooo moo mooo moo

lone whale on the outskirts of the shoal. In about three minutes' time,
mooo moooo mo moo moooooooo mo moo moooo. Mo moooo moooo moooooo' mooo,

Queequeg's harpoon was flung; the stricken fish darted blinding spray
Mooooooo'm moooooo moo moooo; moo mooooooo mooo mooooo mooooooo moooo

in our faces, and then running away with us like light, steered straight
mo moo moooo, moo mooo moooooo mooo mooo mo mooo moooo, moooooo mooooooo

for the heart of the herd. Though such a movement on the part of the
moo moo moooo mo moo mooo. Mooooo mooo m mooooooo mo moo mooo mo moo

whale struck under such circumstances, is in no wise unprecedented; and
moooo mooooo moooo mooo moooooooooooo, mo mo mo mooo moooooooooooo; moo

indeed is almost always more or less anticipated; yet does it present
mooooo mo mooooo mooooo mooo mo mooo moooooooooo; moo mooo mo moooooo

one of the more perilous vicissitudes of the fishery. For as the swift
moo mo moo mooo mooooooo mooooooooooo mo moo moooooo. Moo mo moo moooo

monster drags you deeper and deeper into the frantic shoal, you bid
moooooo moooo moo mooooo moo mooooo mooo moo moooooo moooo, moo moo

adieu to circumspect life and only exist in a delirious throb.
moooo mo moooooooooo mooo moo mooo moooo mo m moooooooo moooo.




As, blind and deaf, the whale plunged forward, as if by sheer power of
Mo, moooo moo mooo, moo moooo moooooo moooooo, mo mo mo moooo moooo mo

speed to rid himself of the iron leech that had fastened to him; as we
moooo mo moo moooooo mo moo mooo moooo mooo moo mooooooo mo moo; mo mo

thus tore a white gash in the sea, on all sides menaced as we flew, by
mooo mooo m moooo mooo mo moo moo, mo moo moooo moooooo mo mo mooo, mo

the crazed creatures to and fro rushing about us; our beset boat was
moo mooooo moooooooo mo moo moo moooooo moooo mo; moo moooo mooo moo

like a ship mobbed by ice-isles in a tempest, and striving to steer
mooo m mooo mooooo mo moo-moooo mo m moooooo, moo mooooooo mo moooo

through their complicated channels and straits, knowing not at what
moooooo moooo moooooooooo mooooooo moo moooooo, moooooo moo mo mooo

moment it may be locked in and crushed.
mooooo mo moo mo mooooo mo moo moooooo.




But not a bit daunted, Queequeg steered us manfully; now sheering off
Moo moo m moo moooooo, Mooooooo moooooo mo mooooooo; moo mooooooo moo

from this monster directly across our route in advance; now edging away
mooo mooo moooooo mooooooo mooooo moo moooo mo moooooo; moo mooooo mooo

from that, whose colossal flukes were suspended overhead, while all the
mooo mooo, moooo mooooooo mooooo mooo moooooooo mooooooo, moooo moo moo

time, Starbuck stood up in the bows, lance in hand, pricking out of our
mooo, Mooooooo moooo mo mo moo mooo, moooo mo mooo, mooooooo moo mo moo

way whatever whales he could reach by short darts, for there was no time
moo mooooooo mooooo mo moooo moooo mo moooo moooo, moo moooo moo mo mooo

to make long ones. Nor were the oarsmen quite idle, though their wonted
mo mooo mooo mooo. Moo mooo moo moooooo moooo mooo, mooooo moooo mooooo

duty was now altogether dispensed with. They chiefly attended to the
mooo moo moo mooooooooo moooooooo mooo. Mooo moooooo mooooooo mo moo

shouting part of the business. "Out of the way, Commodore!" cried one,
mooooooo mooo mo moo mooooooo. "Moo mo moo moo, Moooooooo!" moooo moo,

to a great dromedary that of a sudden rose bodily to the surface,
mo m moooo moooooooo mooo mo m mooooo mooo mooooo mo moo moooooo,

and for an instant threatened to swamp us. "Hard down with your tail,
moo moo mo moooooo mooooooooo mo moooo mo. "Mooo mooo mooo mooo mooo,

there!" cried a second to another, which, close to our gunwale, seemed
moooo!" moooo m mooooo mo moooooo, moooo, moooo mo moo moooooo, mooooo

calmly cooling himself with his own fan-like extremity.
mooooo moooooo moooooo mooo moo moo moo-mooo moooooooo.




All whaleboats carry certain curious contrivances, originally invented
Moo mooooooooo moooo moooooo moooooo mooooooooooo, mooooooooo mooooooo

by the Nantucket Indians, called druggs. Two thick squares of wood
mo moo Moooooooo Moooooo, mooooo mooooo. Moo moooo moooooo mo mooo

of equal size are stoutly clenched together, so that they cross each
mo moooo mooo moo moooooo mooooooo mooooooo, mo mooo mooo moooo mooo

other's grain at right angles; a line of considerable length is then
moooo'm moooo mo moooo mooooo; m mooo mo mooooooooooo mooooo mo mooo

attached to the middle of this block, and the other end of the line
mooooooo mo moo mooooo mo mooo moooo, moo moo moooo moo mo moo mooo

being looped, it can in a moment be fastened to a harpoon. It is chiefly
moooo mooooo, mo moo mo m mooooo mo mooooooo mo m moooooo. Mo mo moooooo

among gallied whales that this drugg is used. For then, more whales
moooo moooooo mooooo mooo mooo moooo mo mooo. Moo mooo, mooo mooooo

are close round you than you can possibly chase at one time. But sperm
moo moooo moooo moo mooo moo moo mooooooo moooo mo moo mooo. Moo moooo

whales are not every day encountered; while you may, then, you must
mooooo moo moo moooo moo moooooooooo; moooo moo moo, mooo, moo mooo

kill all you can. And if you cannot kill them all at once, you must wing
mooo moo moo moo. Moo mo moo mooooo mooo mooo moo mo mooo, moo mooo mooo

them, so that they can be afterwards killed at your leisure. Hence it
mooo, mo mooo mooo moo mo mooooooooo mooooo mo mooo moooooo. Moooo mo

is, that at times like these the drugg, comes into requisition. Our boat
mo, mooo mo moooo mooo moooo moo moooo, moooo mooo moooooooooo. Moo mooo

was furnished with three of them. The first and second were successfully
moo moooooooo mooo moooo mo mooo. Moo moooo moo mooooo mooo mooooooooooo

darted, and we saw the whales staggeringly running off, fettered by the
mooooo, moo mo moo moo mooooo mooooooooooo moooooo moo, mooooooo mo moo

enormous sidelong resistance of the towing drugg. They were cramped like
mooooooo mooooooo mooooooooo mo moo mooooo moooo. Mooo mooo moooooo mooo

malefactors with the chain and ball. But upon flinging the third, in the
moooooooooo mooo moo moooo moo mooo. Moo mooo mooooooo moo moooo, mo moo

act of tossing overboard the clumsy wooden block, it caught under one
moo mo moooooo moooooooo moo mooooo mooooo moooo, mo mooooo moooo moo

of the seats of the boat, and in an instant tore it out and carried it
mo moo moooo mo moo mooo, moo mo mo moooooo mooo mo moo moo moooooo mo

away, dropping the oarsman in the boat's bottom as the seat slid from
mooo, mooooooo moo moooooo mo moo mooo'm mooooo mo moo mooo mooo mooo

under him. On both sides the sea came in at the wounded planks, but we
moooo moo. Mo mooo moooo moo moo mooo mo mo moo moooooo mooooo, moo mo

stuffed two or three drawers and shirts in, and so stopped the leaks for
moooooo moo mo moooo moooooo moo mooooo mo, moo mo moooooo moo moooo moo

the time.
moo mooo.




It had been next to impossible to dart these drugged-harpoons, were
Mo moo mooo mooo mo mooooooooo mo mooo moooo moooooo-mooooooo, mooo

it not that as we advanced into the herd, our whale's way greatly
mo moo mooo mo mo mooooooo mooo moo mooo, moo moooo'm moo moooooo

diminished; moreover, that as we went still further and further from the
mooooooooo; mooooooo, mooo mo mo mooo moooo moooooo moo moooooo mooo moo

circumference of commotion, the direful disorders seemed waning. So that
moooooooooooo mo moooooooo, moo moooooo moooooooo mooooo mooooo. Mo mooo

when at last the jerking harpoon drew out, and the towing whale sideways
mooo mo mooo moo moooooo moooooo mooo moo, moo moo mooooo moooo mooooooo

vanished; then, with the tapering force of his parting momentum, we
mooooooo; mooo, mooo moo mooooooo moooo mo moo moooooo mooooooo, mo

glided between two whales into the innermost heart of the shoal, as if
mooooo moooooo moo mooooo mooo moo moooooooo moooo mo moo moooo, mo mo

from some mountain torrent we had slid into a serene valley lake. Here
mooo mooo mooooooo moooooo mo moo mooo mooo m mooooo mooooo mooo. Mooo

the storms in the roaring glens between the outermost whales, were heard
moo mooooo mo moo moooooo moooo moooooo moo moooooooo mooooo, mooo moooo

but not felt. In this central expanse the sea presented that smooth
moo moo mooo. Mo mooo moooooo moooooo moo moo moooooooo mooo mooooo

satin-like surface, called a sleek, produced by the subtle moisture
moooo-mooo moooooo, mooooo m moooo, mooooooo mo moo mooooo mooooooo

thrown off by the whale in his more quiet moods. Yes, we were now
mooooo moo mo moo moooo mo moo mooo moooo moooo. Moo, mo mooo moo

in that enchanted calm which they say lurks at the heart of every
mo mooo moooooooo mooo moooo mooo moo moooo mo moo moooo mo moooo

commotion. And still in the distracted distance we beheld the tumults of
moooooooo. Moo moooo mo moo mooooooooo mooooooo mo mooooo moo moooooo mo

the outer concentric circles, and saw successive pods of whales, eight
moo moooo mooooooooo moooooo, moo moo mooooooooo mooo mo mooooo, moooo

or ten in each, swiftly going round and round, like multiplied spans of
mo moo mo mooo, moooooo moooo moooo moo moooo, mooo mooooooooo moooo mo

horses in a ring; and so closely shoulder to shoulder, that a Titanic
mooooo mo m mooo; moo mo moooooo mooooooo mo mooooooo, mooo m Moooooo

circus-rider might easily have over-arched the middle ones, and so have
mooooo-moooo moooo mooooo mooo mooo-mooooo moo mooooo mooo, moo mo mooo

gone round on their backs. Owing to the density of the crowd of reposing
mooo moooo mo moooo moooo. Moooo mo moo moooooo mo moo moooo mo mooooooo

whales, more immediately surrounding the embayed axis of the herd, no
mooooo, mooo moooooooooo moooooooooo moo moooooo mooo mo moo mooo, mo

possible chance of escape was at present afforded us. We must watch for
mooooooo mooooo mo mooooo moo mo moooooo mooooooo mo. Mo mooo moooo moo

a breach in the living wall that hemmed us in; the wall that had only
m mooooo mo moo mooooo mooo mooo mooooo mo mo; moo mooo mooo moo mooo

admitted us in order to shut us up. Keeping at the centre of the lake,
mooooooo mo mo moooo mo mooo mo mo. Moooooo mo moo mooooo mo moo mooo,

we were occasionally visited by small tame cows and calves; the women
mo mooo mooooooooooo moooooo mo moooo mooo mooo moo mooooo; moo moooo

and children of this routed host.
moo mooooooo mo mooo mooooo mooo.




Now, inclusive of the occasional wide intervals between the revolving
Moo, moooooooo mo moo mooooooooo mooo moooooooo moooooo moo moooooooo

outer circles, and inclusive of the spaces between the various pods in
moooo moooooo, moo moooooooo mo moo mooooo moooooo moo moooooo mooo mo

any one of those circles, the entire area at this juncture, embraced by
moo moo mo moooo moooooo, moo mooooo mooo mo mooo mooooooo, mooooooo mo

the whole multitude, must have contained at least two or three square
moo moooo moooooooo, mooo mooo moooooooo mo moooo moo mo moooo mooooo

miles. At any rate--though indeed such a test at such a time might be
moooo. Mo moo mooo--mooooo mooooo mooo m mooo mo mooo m mooo moooo mo

deceptive--spoutings might be discovered from our low boat that
moooooooo--moooooooo moooo mo mooooooooo mooo moo moo mooo mooo

seemed playing up almost from the rim of the horizon. I mention this
mooooo moooooo mo mooooo mooo moo moo mo moo moooooo. M moooooo mooo

circumstance, because, as if the cows and calves had been purposely
mooooooooooo, moooooo, mo mo moo mooo moo mooooo moo mooo moooooooo

locked up in this innermost fold; and as if the wide extent of the
mooooo mo mo mooo moooooooo mooo; moo mo mo moo mooo mooooo mo moo

herd had hitherto prevented them from learning the precise cause of its
mooo moo mooooooo moooooooo mooo mooo mooooooo moo moooooo moooo mo moo

stopping; or, possibly, being so young, unsophisticated, and every way
mooooooo; mo, mooooooo, moooo mo moooo, moooooooooooooo, moo moooo moo

innocent and inexperienced; however it may have been, these smaller
mooooooo moo moooooooooooo; moooooo mo moo mooo mooo, moooo moooooo

whales--now and then visiting our becalmed boat from the margin of the
mooooo--moo moo mooo mooooooo moo mooooooo mooo mooo moo mooooo mo moo

lake--evinced a wondrous fearlessness and confidence, or else a still
mooo--moooooo m mooooooo mooooooooooo moo mooooooooo, mo mooo m moooo

becharmed panic which it was impossible not to marvel at. Like household
moooooooo moooo moooo mo moo mooooooooo moo mo mooooo mo. Mooo moooooooo

dogs they came snuffling round us, right up to our gunwales, and
mooo mooo mooo moooooooo moooo mo, moooo mo mo moo mooooooo, moo

touching them; till it almost seemed that some spell had suddenly
mooooooo mooo; mooo mo mooooo mooooo mooo mooo moooo moo mooooooo

domesticated them. Queequeg patted their foreheads; Starbuck scratched
mooooooooooo mooo. Mooooooo mooooo moooo moooooooo; Mooooooo moooooooo

their backs with his lance; but fearful of the consequences, for the
moooo moooo mooo moo moooo; moo moooooo mo moo mooooooooooo, moo moo

time refrained from darting it.
mooo moooooooo mooo moooooo mo.




But far beneath this wondrous world upon the surface, another and still
Moo moo moooooo mooo mooooooo moooo mooo moo moooooo, moooooo moo moooo

stranger world met our eyes as we gazed over the side. For, suspended
mooooooo moooo moo moo mooo mo mo moooo mooo moo mooo. Moo, moooooooo

in those watery vaults, floated the forms of the nursing mothers of the
mo moooo mooooo mooooo, moooooo moo moooo mo moo moooooo moooooo mo moo

whales, and those that by their enormous girth seemed shortly to
mooooo, moo moooo mooo mo moooo mooooooo moooo mooooo moooooo mo

become mothers. The lake, as I have hinted, was to a considerable depth
mooooo moooooo. Moo mooo, mo M mooo mooooo, moo mo m mooooooooooo moooo

exceedingly transparent; and as human infants while suckling will calmly
moooooooooo moooooooooo; moo mo moooo moooooo moooo mooooooo mooo mooooo

and fixedly gaze away from the breast, as if leading two different
moo moooooo mooo mooo mooo moo mooooo, mo mo moooooo moo moooooooo

lives at the time; and while yet drawing mortal nourishment, be still
moooo mo moo mooo; moo moooo moo moooooo mooooo moooooooooo, mo moooo

spiritually feasting upon some unearthly reminiscence;--even so did the
moooooooooo mooooooo mooo mooo moooooooo mooooooooooo;--mooo mo moo moo

young of these whales seem looking up towards us, but not at us, as if
moooo mo moooo mooooo mooo moooooo mo moooooo mo, moo moo mo mo, mo mo

we were but a bit of Gulfweed in their new-born sight. Floating on their
mo mooo moo m moo mo Mooooooo mo moooo moo-mooo moooo. Mooooooo mo moooo

sides, the mothers also seemed quietly eyeing us. One of these little
moooo, moo moooooo mooo mooooo moooooo mooooo mo. Moo mo moooo mooooo

infants, that from certain queer tokens seemed hardly a day old, might
moooooo, mooo mooo moooooo moooo mooooo mooooo mooooo m moo moo, moooo

have measured some fourteen feet in length, and some six feet in
mooo mooooooo mooo mooooooo mooo mo mooooo, moo mooo moo mooo mo

girth. He was a little frisky; though as yet his body seemed scarce yet
moooo. Mo moo m mooooo mooooo; mooooo mo moo moo mooo mooooo mooooo moo

recovered from that irksome position it had so lately occupied in the
moooooooo mooo mooo moooooo mooooooo mo moo mo mooooo mooooooo mo moo

maternal reticule; where, tail to head, and all ready for the final
mooooooo mooooooo; moooo, mooo mo mooo, moo moo moooo moo moo moooo

spring, the unborn whale lies bent like a Tartar's bow. The delicate
mooooo, moo mooooo moooo mooo mooo mooo m Mooooo'm moo. Moo mooooooo

side-fins, and the palms of his flukes, still freshly retained the
mooo-mooo, moo moo moooo mo moo mooooo, moooo moooooo mooooooo moo

plaited crumpled appearance of a baby's ears newly arrived from foreign
moooooo mooooooo mooooooooo mo m mooo'm mooo moooo moooooo mooo moooooo

parts.
moooo.




"Line! line!" cried Queequeg, looking over the gunwale; "him fast! him
"Mooo! mooo!" moooo Mooooooo, moooooo mooo moo moooooo; "moo mooo! moo

fast!--Who line him! Who struck?--Two whale; one big, one little!"
mooo!--Moo mooo moo! Moo mooooo?--Moo moooo; moo moo, moo mooooo!"




"What ails ye, man?" cried Starbuck.
"Mooo mooo mo, moo?" moooo Mooooooo.




"Look-e here," said Queequeg, pointing down.
"Mooo-m mooo," mooo Mooooooo, mooooooo mooo.




As when the stricken whale, that from the tub has reeled out hundreds of
Mo mooo moo mooooooo moooo, mooo mooo moo moo moo mooooo moo mooooooo mo

fathoms of rope; as, after deep sounding, he floats up again, and shows
moooooo mo mooo; mo, moooo mooo mooooooo, mo mooooo mo moooo, moo moooo

the slackened curling line buoyantly rising and spiralling towards the
moo moooooooo moooooo mooo moooooooo mooooo moo mooooooooo moooooo moo

air; so now, Starbuck saw long coils of the umbilical cord of Madame
moo; mo moo, Mooooooo moo mooo moooo mo moo moooooooo mooo mo Mooooo

Leviathan, by which the young cub seemed still tethered to its dam. Not
Moooooooo, mo moooo moo moooo moo mooooo moooo mooooooo mo moo moo. Moo

seldom in the rapid vicissitudes of the chase, this natural line, with
mooooo mo moo moooo mooooooooooo mo moo moooo, mooo moooooo mooo, mooo

the maternal end loose, becomes entangled with the hempen one, so that
moo mooooooo moo moooo, moooooo moooooooo mooo moo mooooo moo, mo mooo

the cub is thereby trapped. Some of the subtlest secrets of the seas
moo moo mo moooooo moooooo. Mooo mo moo mooooooo moooooo mo moo mooo

seemed divulged to us in this enchanted pond. We saw young Leviathan
mooooo mooooooo mo mo mo mooo moooooooo mooo. Mo moo moooo Moooooooo

amours in the deep.*
mooooo mo moo mooo.*







*The sperm whale, as with all other species of the Leviathan, but unlike
*Moo moooo moooo, mo mooo moo moooo moooooo mo moo Moooooooo, moo mooooo

most other fish, breeds indifferently at all seasons; after a gestation
mooo moooo mooo, mooooo moooooooooooo mo moo moooooo; moooo m moooooooo

which may probably be set down at nine months, producing but one at a
moooo moo mooooooo mo moo mooo mo mooo mooooo, moooooooo moo moo mo m

time; though in some few known instances giving birth to an Esau and
mooo; mooooo mo mooo moo moooo moooooooo mooooo moooo mo mo Mooo moo

Jacob:--a contingency provided for in suckling by two teats, curiously
Moooo:--m moooooooooo mooooooo moo mo mooooooo mo moo moooo, moooooooo

situated, one on each side of the anus; but the breasts themselves
mooooooo, moo mo mooo mooo mo moo mooo; moo moo moooooo mooooooooo

extend upwards from that. When by chance these precious parts in a
mooooo moooooo mooo mooo. Mooo mo mooooo moooo mooooooo moooo mo m

nursing whale are cut by the hunter's lance, the mother's pouring milk
moooooo moooo moo moo mo moo mooooo'm moooo, moo mooooo'm moooooo mooo

and blood rivallingly discolour the sea for rods. The milk is very sweet
moo moooo moooooooooo moooooooo moo moo moo mooo. Moo mooo mo mooo moooo

and rich; it has been tasted by man; it might do well with strawberries.
moo mooo; mo moo mooo mooooo mo moo; mo moooo mo mooo mooo mooooooooooo.

When overflowing with mutual esteem, the whales salute MORE HOMINUM.
Mooo moooooooooo mooo mooooo mooooo, moo mooooo mooooo MOOO MOOOOOO.







And thus, though surrounded by circle upon circle of consternations
Moo mooo, mooooo mooooooooo mo mooooo mooo mooooo mo mooooooooooooo

and affrights, did these inscrutable creatures at the centre freely and
moo moooooooo, moo moooo moooooooooo moooooooo mo moo mooooo mooooo moo

fearlessly indulge in all peaceful concernments; yea, serenely revelled
mooooooooo moooooo mo moo mooooooo mooooooooooo; moo, mooooooo mooooooo

in dalliance and delight. But even so, amid the tornadoed Atlantic of
mo moooooooo moo moooooo. Moo mooo mo, mooo moo moooooooo Mooooooo mo

my being, do I myself still for ever centrally disport in mute calm; and
mo moooo, mo M mooooo moooo moo mooo moooooooo moooooo mo mooo mooo; moo

while ponderous planets of unwaning woe revolve round me, deep down and
moooo moooooooo moooooo mo mooooooo moo moooooo moooo mo, mooo mooo moo

deep inland there I still bathe me in eternal mildness of joy.
mooo mooooo moooo M moooo moooo mo mo moooooo mooooooo mo moo.




Meanwhile, as we thus lay entranced, the occasional sudden frantic
Moooooooo, mo mo mooo moo moooooooo, moo mooooooooo mooooo moooooo

spectacles in the distance evinced the activity of the other boats,
mooooooooo mo moo mooooooo moooooo moo mooooooo mo moo moooo moooo,

still engaged in drugging the whales on the frontier of the host; or
moooo moooooo mo mooooooo moo mooooo mo moo mooooooo mo moo mooo; mo

possibly carrying on the war within the first circle, where abundance of
mooooooo mooooooo mo moo moo mooooo moo moooo mooooo, moooo moooooooo mo

room and some convenient retreats were afforded them. But the sight
mooo moo mooo mooooooooo mooooooo mooo mooooooo mooo. Moo moo moooo

of the enraged drugged whales now and then blindly darting to and fro
mo moo moooooo moooooo mooooo moo moo mooo moooooo moooooo mo moo moo

across the circles, was nothing to what at last met our eyes. It is
mooooo moo moooooo, moo moooooo mo mooo mo mooo moo moo mooo. Mo mo

sometimes the custom when fast to a whale more than commonly powerful
moooooooo moo mooooo mooo mooo mo m moooo mooo mooo mooooooo mooooooo

and alert, to seek to hamstring him, as it were, by sundering or
moo moooo, mo mooo mo moooooooo moo, mo mo mooo, mo moooooooo mo

maiming his gigantic tail-tendon. It is done by darting a short-handled
moooooo moo mooooooo mooo-mooooo. Mo mo mooo mo moooooo m moooo-moooooo

cutting-spade, to which is attached a rope for hauling it back again.
moooooo-moooo, mo moooo mo mooooooo m mooo moo moooooo mo mooo moooo.

A whale wounded (as we afterwards learned) in this part, but not
M moooo moooooo (mo mo mooooooooo moooooo) mo mooo mooo, moo moo

effectually, as it seemed, had broken away from the boat, carrying along
moooooooooo, mo mo mooooo, moo mooooo mooo mooo moo mooo, mooooooo moooo

with him half of the harpoon line; and in the extraordinary agony of
mooo moo mooo mo moo moooooo mooo; moo mo moo moooooooooooo moooo mo

the wound, he was now dashing among the revolving circles like the lone
moo moooo, mo moo moo moooooo moooo moo moooooooo moooooo mooo moo mooo

mounted desperado Arnold, at the battle of Saratoga, carrying dismay
moooooo moooooooo Mooooo, mo moo mooooo mo Mooooooo, mooooooo mooooo

wherever he went.
mooooooo mo mooo.




But agonizing as was the wound of this whale, and an appalling spectacle
Moo moooooooo mo moo moo moooo mo mooo moooo, moo mo moooooooo moooooooo

enough, any way; yet the peculiar horror with which he seemed to
mooooo, moo moo; moo moo mooooooo mooooo mooo moooo mo mooooo mo

inspire the rest of the herd, was owing to a cause which at first the
moooooo moo mooo mo moo mooo, moo moooo mo m moooo moooo mo moooo moo

intervening distance obscured from us. But at length we perceived that
moooooooooo mooooooo mooooooo mooo mo. Moo mo mooooo mo moooooooo mooo

by one of the unimaginable accidents of the fishery, this whale had
mo moo mo moo mooooooooooo moooooooo mo moo moooooo, mooo moooo moo

become entangled in the harpoon-line that he towed; he had also run
mooooo moooooooo mo moo moooooo-mooo mooo mo moooo; mo moo mooo moo

away with the cutting-spade in him; and while the free end of the rope
mooo mooo moo moooooo-moooo mo moo; moo moooo moo mooo moo mo moo mooo

attached to that weapon, had permanently caught in the coils of the
mooooooo mo mooo mooooo, moo moooooooooo mooooo mo moo moooo mo moo

harpoon-line round his tail, the cutting-spade itself had worked loose
moooooo-mooo moooo moo mooo, moo moooooo-moooo mooooo moo mooooo moooo

from his flesh. So that tormented to madness, he was now churning
mooo moo moooo. Mo mooo moooooooo mo moooooo, mo moo moo mooooooo

through the water, violently flailing with his flexible tail, and
moooooo moo moooo, moooooooo mooooooo mooo moo mooooooo mooo, moo

tossing the keen spade about him, wounding and murdering his own
moooooo moo mooo moooo moooo moo, mooooooo moo moooooooo moo moo

comrades.
mooooooo.




This terrific object seemed to recall the whole herd from their
Mooo mooooooo mooooo mooooo mo mooooo moo moooo mooo mooo moooo

stationary fright. First, the whales forming the margin of our lake
mooooooooo mooooo. Moooo, moo mooooo moooooo moo mooooo mo moo mooo

began to crowd a little, and tumble against each other, as if lifted
moooo mo moooo m mooooo, moo mooooo moooooo mooo moooo, mo mo mooooo

by half spent billows from afar; then the lake itself began faintly to
mo mooo moooo moooooo mooo mooo; mooo moo mooo mooooo moooo moooooo mo

heave and swell; the submarine bridal-chambers and nurseries vanished;
moooo moo moooo; moo moooooooo mooooo-mooooooo moo moooooooo mooooooo;

in more and more contracting orbits the whales in the more central
mo mooo moo mooo moooooooooo mooooo moo mooooo mo moo mooo moooooo

circles began to swim in thickening clusters. Yes, the long calm was
moooooo moooo mo mooo mo mooooooooo mooooooo. Moo, moo mooo mooo moo

departing. A low advancing hum was soon heard; and then like to the
moooooooo. M moo moooooooo moo moo mooo moooo; moo mooo mooo mo moo

tumultuous masses of block-ice when the great river Hudson breaks up in
mooooooooo mooooo mo moooo-moo mooo moo moooo moooo Mooooo mooooo mo mo

Spring, the entire host of whales came tumbling upon their inner centre,
Mooooo, moo mooooo mooo mo mooooo mooo mooooooo mooo moooo moooo mooooo,

as if to pile themselves up in one common mountain. Instantly Starbuck
mo mo mo mooo mooooooooo mo mo moo mooooo mooooooo. Moooooooo Mooooooo

and Queequeg changed places; Starbuck taking the stern.
moo Mooooooo moooooo mooooo; Mooooooo mooooo moo moooo.




"Oars! Oars!" he intensely whispered, seizing the helm--"gripe your
"Mooo! Mooo!" mo moooooooo moooooooo, moooooo moo mooo--"moooo mooo

oars, and clutch your souls, now! My God, men, stand by! Shove him off,
mooo, moo mooooo mooo moooo, moo! Mo Moo, moo, moooo mo! Moooo moo moo,

you Queequeg--the whale there!--prick him!--hit him! Stand up--stand
moo Mooooooo--moo moooo moooo!--moooo moo!--moo moo! Moooo mo--moooo

up, and stay so! Spring, men--pull, men; never mind their backs--scrape
mo, moo mooo mo! Mooooo, moo--mooo, moo; moooo mooo moooo moooo--mooooo

them!--scrape away!"
mooo!--mooooo mooo!"




The boat was now all but jammed between two vast black bulks, leaving a
Moo mooo moo moo moo moo mooooo moooooo moo mooo moooo moooo, moooooo m

narrow Dardanelles between their long lengths. But by desperate endeavor
mooooo Moooooooooo moooooo moooo mooo moooooo. Moo mo moooooooo mooooooo

we at last shot into a temporary opening; then giving way rapidly,
mo mo mooo mooo mooo m moooooooo moooooo; mooo mooooo moo moooooo,

and at the same time earnestly watching for another outlet. After many
moo mo moo mooo mooo moooooooo mooooooo moo moooooo mooooo. Moooo mooo

similar hair-breadth escapes, we at last swiftly glided into what had
moooooo mooo-moooooo moooooo, mo mo mooo moooooo mooooo mooo mooo moo

just been one of the outer circles, but now crossed by random whales,
mooo mooo moo mo moo moooo moooooo, moo moo moooooo mo mooooo mooooo,

all violently making for one centre. This lucky salvation was cheaply
moo moooooooo mooooo moo moo mooooo. Mooo moooo moooooooo moo moooooo

purchased by the loss of Queequeg's hat, who, while standing in the bows
moooooooo mo moo mooo mo Mooooooo'm moo, moo, moooo mooooooo mo moo mooo

to prick the fugitive whales, had his hat taken clean from his head by
mo moooo moo mooooooo mooooo, moo moo moo moooo moooo mooo moo mooo mo

the air-eddy made by the sudden tossing of a pair of broad flukes close
moo moo-mooo mooo mo moo mooooo moooooo mo m mooo mo moooo mooooo moooo

by.
mo.




Riotous and disordered as the universal commotion now was, it soon
Moooooo moo mooooooooo mo moo moooooooo moooooooo moo moo, mo mooo

resolved itself into what seemed a systematic movement; for having
mooooooo mooooo mooo mooo mooooo m mooooooooo mooooooo; moo mooooo

clumped together at last in one dense body, they then renewed their
moooooo mooooooo mo mooo mo moo moooo mooo, mooo mooo moooooo moooo

onward flight with augmented fleetness. Further pursuit was useless; but
mooooo mooooo mooo moooooooo moooooooo. Moooooo moooooo moo moooooo; moo

the boats still lingered in their wake to pick up what drugged whales
moo moooo moooo mooooooo mo moooo mooo mo mooo mo mooo moooooo mooooo

might be dropped astern, and likewise to secure one which Flask had
moooo mo moooooo mooooo, moo mooooooo mo mooooo moo moooo Moooo moo

killed and waifed. The waif is a pennoned pole, two or three of which
mooooo moo mooooo. Moo mooo mo m mooooooo mooo, moo mo moooo mo moooo

are carried by every boat; and which, when additional game is at hand,
moo moooooo mo moooo mooo; moo moooo, mooo mooooooooo mooo mo mo mooo,

are inserted upright into the floating body of a dead whale, both to
moo mooooooo moooooo mooo moo mooooooo mooo mo m mooo moooo, mooo mo

mark its place on the sea, and also as token of prior possession, should
mooo moo moooo mo moo moo, moo mooo mo moooo mo moooo mooooooooo, mooooo

the boats of any other ship draw near.
moo moooo mo moo moooo mooo mooo mooo.




The result of this lowering was somewhat illustrative of that sagacious
Moo mooooo mo mooo mooooooo moo mooooooo mooooooooooo mo mooo moooooooo

saying in the Fishery,--the more whales the less fish. Of all the
mooooo mo moo Moooooo,--moo mooo mooooo moo mooo mooo. Mo moo moo

drugged whales only one was captured. The rest contrived to escape for
moooooo mooooo mooo moo moo mooooooo. Moo mooo moooooooo mo mooooo moo

the time, but only to be taken, as will hereafter be seen, by some other
moo mooo, moo mooo mo mo moooo, mo mooo moooooooo mo mooo, mo mooo moooo

craft than the Pequod.
moooo mooo moo Mooooo.










CHAPTER 88. Schools and Schoolmasters.
MOOOOOO mo. Moooooo moo Moooooooooooo.







The previous chapter gave account of an immense body or herd of Sperm
Moo mooooooo moooooo mooo moooooo mo mo moooooo mooo mo mooo mo Moooo

Whales, and there was also then given the probable cause inducing those
Mooooo, moo moooo moo mooo mooo moooo moo mooooooo moooo mooooooo moooo

vast aggregations.
mooo mooooooooooo.




Now, though such great bodies are at times encountered, yet, as must
Moo, mooooo mooo moooo mooooo moo mo moooo moooooooooo, moo, mo mooo

have been seen, even at the present day, small detached bands are
mooo mooo mooo, mooo mo moo moooooo moo, moooo mooooooo moooo moo

occasionally observed, embracing from twenty to fifty individuals each.
mooooooooooo mooooooo, moooooooo mooo mooooo mo moooo moooooooooo mooo.

Such bands are known as schools. They generally are of two sorts; those
Mooo moooo moo moooo mo moooooo. Mooo moooooooo moo mo moo moooo; moooo

composed almost entirely of females, and those mustering none but young
mooooooo mooooo mooooooo mo moooooo, moo moooo moooooooo mooo moo moooo

vigorous males, or bulls, as they are familiarly designated.
mooooooo moooo, mo moooo, mo mooo moo mooooooooo mooooooooo.




In cavalier attendance upon the school of females, you invariably see a
Mo mooooooo mooooooooo mooo moo mooooo mo moooooo, moo mooooooooo moo m

male of full grown magnitude, but not old; who, upon any alarm, evinces
mooo mo mooo moooo moooooooo, moo moo moo; moo, mooo moo moooo, moooooo

his gallantry by falling in the rear and covering the flight of his
moo moooooooo mo moooooo mo moo mooo moo mooooooo moo mooooo mo moo

ladies. In truth, this gentleman is a luxurious Ottoman, swimming about
mooooo. Mo moooo, mooo moooooooo mo m moooooooo Moooooo, mooooooo moooo

over the watery world, surroundingly accompanied by all the solaces
mooo moo mooooo moooo, moooooooooooo moooooooooo mo moo moo moooooo

and endearments of the harem. The contrast between this Ottoman and
moo moooooooooo mo moo moooo. Moo mooooooo moooooo mooo Moooooo moo

his concubines is striking; because, while he is always of the largest
moo mooooooooo mo mooooooo; moooooo, moooo mo mo mooooo mo moo moooooo

leviathanic proportions, the ladies, even at full growth, are not
moooooooooo moooooooooo, moo mooooo, mooo mo mooo mooooo, moo moo

more than one-third of the bulk of an average-sized male. They are
mooo mooo moo-moooo mo moo mooo mo mo moooooo-moooo mooo. Mooo moo

comparatively delicate, indeed; I dare say, not to exceed half a dozen
moooooooooooo mooooooo, mooooo; M mooo moo, moo mo mooooo mooo m moooo

yards round the waist. Nevertheless, it cannot be denied, that upon the
moooo moooo moo moooo. Mooooooooooo, mo mooooo mo mooooo, mooo mooo moo

whole they are hereditarily entitled to EMBONPOINT.
moooo mooo moo mooooooooooo mooooooo mo MOOOOOOOOO.




It is very curious to watch this harem and its lord in their indolent
Mo mo mooo moooooo mo moooo mooo moooo moo moo mooo mo moooo mooooooo

ramblings. Like fashionables, they are for ever on the move in leisurely
moooooooo. Mooo mooooooooooo, mooo moo moo mooo mo moo mooo mo moooooooo

search of variety. You meet them on the Line in time for the full flower
mooooo mo moooooo. Moo mooo mooo mo moo Mooo mo mooo moo moo mooo mooooo

of the Equatorial feeding season, having just returned, perhaps, from
mo moo Mooooooooo moooooo mooooo, mooooo mooo mooooooo, moooooo, mooo

spending the summer in the Northern seas, and so cheating summer of all
mooooooo moo mooooo mo moo Mooooooo mooo, moo mo mooooooo mooooo mo moo

unpleasant weariness and warmth. By the time they have lounged up and
mooooooooo moooooooo moo mooooo. Mo moo mooo mooo mooo moooooo mo moo

down the promenade of the Equator awhile, they start for the Oriental
mooo moo moooooooo mo moo Moooooo mooooo, mooo moooo moo moo Mooooooo

waters in anticipation of the cool season there, and so evade the other
mooooo mo mooooooooooo mo moo mooo mooooo moooo, moo mo moooo moo moooo

excessive temperature of the year.
moooooooo moooooooooo mo moo mooo.




When serenely advancing on one of these journeys, if any strange
Mooo mooooooo moooooooo mo moo mo moooo mooooooo, mo moo moooooo

suspicious sights are seen, my lord whale keeps a wary eye on his
mooooooooo mooooo moo mooo, mo mooo moooo moooo m mooo moo mo moo

interesting family. Should any unwarrantably pert young Leviathan coming
moooooooooo mooooo. Mooooo moo moooooooooooo mooo moooo Moooooooo mooooo

that way, presume to draw confidentially close to one of the ladies,
mooo moo, moooooo mo mooo mooooooooooooo moooo mo moo mo moo mooooo,

with what prodigious fury the Bashaw assails him, and chases him away!
mooo mooo mooooooooo mooo moo Mooooo moooooo moo, moo mooooo moo mooo!

High times, indeed, if unprincipled young rakes like him are to be
Mooo moooo, mooooo, mo mooooooooooo moooo moooo mooo moo moo mo mo

permitted to invade the sanctity of domestic bliss; though do what the
moooooooo mo mooooo moo mooooooo mo mooooooo moooo; mooooo mo mooo moo

Bashaw will, he cannot keep the most notorious Lothario out of his bed;
Mooooo mooo, mo mooooo mooo moo mooo moooooooo Mooooooo moo mo moo moo;

for, alas! all fish bed in common. As ashore, the ladies often cause the
moo, mooo! moo mooo moo mo mooooo. Mo mooooo, moo mooooo moooo moooo moo

most terrible duels among their rival admirers; just so with the whales,
mooo mooooooo moooo moooo moooo moooo mooooooo; mooo mo mooo moo mooooo,

who sometimes come to deadly battle, and all for love. They fence with
moo moooooooo mooo mo mooooo mooooo, moo moo moo mooo. Mooo moooo mooo

their long lower jaws, sometimes locking them together, and so striving
moooo mooo moooo mooo, moooooooo moooooo mooo mooooooo, moo mo mooooooo

for the supremacy like elks that warringly interweave their antlers. Not
moo moo moooooooo mooo mooo mooo moooooooo mooooooooo moooo moooooo. Moo

a few are captured having the deep scars of these encounters,--furrowed
m moo moo mooooooo mooooo moo mooo moooo mo moooo mooooooooo,--mooooooo

heads, broken teeth, scolloped fins; and in some instances, wrenched and
moooo, mooooo moooo, moooooooo mooo; moo mo mooo moooooooo, mooooooo moo

dislocated mouths.
mooooooooo mooooo.




But supposing the invader of domestic bliss to betake himself away at
Moo moooooooo moo moooooo mo mooooooo moooo mo mooooo moooooo mooo mo

the first rush of the harem's lord, then is it very diverting to watch
moo moooo mooo mo moo moooo'm mooo, mooo mo mo mooo moooooooo mo moooo

that lord. Gently he insinuates his vast bulk among them again and
mooo mooo. Mooooo mo mooooooooo moo mooo mooo moooo mooo moooo moo

revels there awhile, still in tantalizing vicinity to young Lothario,
mooooo moooo mooooo, moooo mo moooooooooo mooooooo mo moooo Mooooooo,

like pious Solomon devoutly worshipping among his thousand concubines.
mooo moooo Moooooo mooooooo moooooooooo moooo moo mooooooo mooooooooo.

Granting other whales to be in sight, the fishermen will seldom give
Mooooooo moooo mooooo mo mo mo moooo, moo moooooooo mooo mooooo mooo

chase to one of these Grand Turks; for these Grand Turks are too lavish
moooo mo moo mo moooo Moooo Moooo; moo moooo Moooo Moooo moo moo mooooo

of their strength, and hence their unctuousness is small. As for the
mo moooo mooooooo, moo moooo moooo mooooooooooo mo moooo. Mo moo moo

sons and the daughters they beget, why, those sons and daughters must
mooo moo moo moooooooo mooo moooo, moo, moooo mooo moo moooooooo mooo

take care of themselves; at least, with only the maternal help. For
mooo mooo mo mooooooooo; mo moooo, mooo mooo moo mooooooo mooo. Moo

like certain other omnivorous roving lovers that might be named, my Lord
mooo moooooo moooo mooooooooo mooooo mooooo mooo moooo mo moooo, mo Mooo

Whale has no taste for the nursery, however much for the bower; and so,
Moooo moo mo moooo moo moo moooooo, moooooo mooo moo moo moooo; moo mo,

being a great traveller, he leaves his anonymous babies all over the
moooo m moooo moooooooo, mo mooooo moo moooooooo mooooo moo mooo moo

world; every baby an exotic. In good time, nevertheless, as the ardour
moooo; moooo mooo mo mooooo. Mo mooo mooo, mooooooooooo, mo moo mooooo

of youth declines; as years and dumps increase; as reflection lends
mo moooo mooooooo; mo moooo moo moooo mooooooo; mo mooooooooo moooo

her solemn pauses; in short, as a general lassitude overtakes the sated
moo mooooo mooooo; mo moooo, mo m moooooo moooooooo moooooooo moo moooo

Turk; then a love of ease and virtue supplants the love for maidens; our
Mooo; mooo m mooo mo mooo moo mooooo moooooooo moo mooo moo moooooo; moo

Ottoman enters upon the impotent, repentant, admonitory stage of life,
Moooooo mooooo mooo moo mooooooo, moooooooo, mooooooooo moooo mo mooo,

forswears, disbands the harem, and grown to an exemplary, sulky old
moooooooo, mooooooo moo moooo, moo moooo mo mo moooooooo, moooo moo

soul, goes about all alone among the meridians and parallels saying his
mooo, mooo moooo moo moooo moooo moo moooooooo moo moooooooo mooooo moo

prayers, and warning each young Leviathan from his amorous errors.
moooooo, moo moooooo mooo moooo Moooooooo mooo moo moooooo mooooo.




Now, as the harem of whales is called by the fishermen a school, so
Moo, mo moo moooo mo mooooo mo mooooo mo moo moooooooo m mooooo, mo

is the lord and master of that school technically known as the
mo moo mooo moo mooooo mo mooo mooooo moooooooooo moooo mo moo

schoolmaster. It is therefore not in strict character, however admirably
mooooooooooo. Mo mo moooooooo moo mo mooooo moooooooo, moooooo moooooooo

satirical, that after going to school himself, he should then go abroad
moooooooo, mooo moooo moooo mo mooooo moooooo, mo mooooo mooo mo mooooo

inculcating not what he learned there, but the folly of it. His title,
moooooooooo moo mooo mo moooooo moooo, moo moo moooo mo mo. Moo moooo,

schoolmaster, would very naturally seem derived from the name bestowed
mooooooooooo, moooo mooo moooooooo mooo moooooo mooo moo mooo mooooooo

upon the harem itself, but some have surmised that the man who first
mooo moo moooo mooooo, moo mooo mooo mooooooo mooo moo moo moo moooo

thus entitled this sort of Ottoman whale, must have read the memoirs of
mooo mooooooo mooo mooo mo Moooooo moooo, mooo mooo mooo moo moooooo mo

Vidocq, and informed himself what sort of a country-schoolmaster that
Mooooo, moo mooooooo moooooo mooo mooo mo m moooooo-mooooooooooo mooo

famous Frenchman was in his younger days, and what was the nature of
mooooo Moooooooo moo mo moo moooooo mooo, moo mooo moo moo mooooo mo

those occult lessons he inculcated into some of his pupils.
moooo mooooo moooooo mo mooooooooo mooo mooo mo moo mooooo.




The same secludedness and isolation to which the schoolmaster whale
Moo mooo mooooooooooo moo moooooooo mo moooo moo mooooooooooo moooo

betakes himself in his advancing years, is true of all aged Sperm
moooooo moooooo mo moo moooooooo moooo, mo mooo mo moo mooo Moooo

Whales. Almost universally, a lone whale--as a solitary Leviathan is
Mooooo. Mooooo moooooooooo, m mooo moooo--mo m mooooooo Moooooooo mo

called--proves an ancient one. Like venerable moss-bearded Daniel Boone,
mooooo--mooooo mo moooooo moo. Mooo moooooooo mooo-moooooo Mooooo Moooo,

he will have no one near him but Nature herself; and her he takes to
mo mooo mooo mo moo mooo moo moo Mooooo moooooo; moo moo mo moooo mo

wife in the wilderness of waters, and the best of wives she is, though
mooo mo moo mooooooooo mo mooooo, moo moo mooo mo moooo moo mo, mooooo

she keeps so many moody secrets.
moo moooo mo mooo moooo moooooo.




The schools composing none but young and vigorous males, previously
Moo moooooo moooooooo mooo moo moooo moo mooooooo moooo, mooooooooo

mentioned, offer a strong contrast to the harem schools. For while
moooooooo, moooo m mooooo mooooooo mo moo moooo moooooo. Moo moooo

those female whales are characteristically timid, the young males, or
moooo mooooo mooooo moo mooooooooooooooooo moooo, moo moooo moooo, mo

forty-barrel-bulls, as they call them, are by far the most pugnacious
moooo-mooooo-moooo, mo mooo mooo mooo, moo mo moo moo mooo mooooooooo

of all Leviathans, and proverbially the most dangerous to encounter;
mo moo Mooooooooo, moo mooooooooooo moo mooo moooooooo mo moooooooo;

excepting those wondrous grey-headed, grizzled whales, sometimes met,
moooooooo moooo mooooooo mooo-mooooo, mooooooo mooooo, moooooooo moo,

and these will fight you like grim fiends exasperated by a penal gout.
moo moooo mooo moooo moo mooo mooo mooooo moooooooooo mo m moooo mooo.




The Forty-barrel-bull schools are larger than the harem schools. Like
Moo Moooo-mooooo-mooo moooooo moo mooooo mooo moo moooo moooooo. Mooo

a mob of young collegians, they are full of fight, fun, and wickedness,
m moo mo moooo mooooooooo, mooo moo mooo mo moooo, moo, moo mooooooooo,

tumbling round the world at such a reckless, rollicking rate, that no
mooooooo moooo moo moooo mo mooo m mooooooo, mooooooooo mooo, mooo mo

prudent underwriter would insure them any more than he would a riotous
moooooo moooooooooo moooo mooooo mooo moo mooo mooo mo moooo m moooooo

lad at Yale or Harvard. They soon relinquish this turbulence though,
moo mo Mooo mo Moooooo. Mooo mooo mooooooooo mooo mooooooooo mooooo,

and when about three-fourths grown, break up, and separately go about in
moo mooo moooo moooo-moooooo moooo, moooo mo, moo mooooooooo mo moooo mo

quest of settlements, that is, harems.
moooo mo moooooooooo, mooo mo, mooooo.




Another point of difference between the male and female schools is
Moooooo moooo mo mooooooooo moooooo moo mooo moo mooooo moooooo mo

still more characteristic of the sexes. Say you strike a
moooo mooo mooooooooooooo mo moo moooo. Moo moo mooooo m

Forty-barrel-bull--poor devil! all his comrades quit him. But strike
Moooo-mooooo-mooo--mooo moooo! moo moo mooooooo mooo moo. Moo mooooo

a member of the harem school, and her companions swim around her with
m mooooo mo moo moooo mooooo, moo moo mooooooooo mooo mooooo moo mooo

every token of concern, sometimes lingering so near her and so long, as
moooo moooo mo moooooo, moooooooo moooooooo mo mooo moo moo mo mooo, mo

themselves to fall a prey.
mooooooooo mo mooo m mooo.










CHAPTER 89. Fast-Fish and Loose-Fish.
MOOOOOO mo. Mooo-Mooo moo Moooo-Mooo.







The allusion to the waif and waif-poles in the last chapter but one,
Moo mooooooo mo moo mooo moo mooo-moooo mo moo mooo moooooo moo moo,

necessitates some account of the laws and regulations of the whale
mooooooooooo mooo moooooo mo moo mooo moo moooooooooo mo moo moooo

fishery, of which the waif may be deemed the grand symbol and badge.
moooooo, mo moooo moo mooo moo mo mooooo moo moooo mooooo moo moooo.




It frequently happens that when several ships are cruising in company,
Mo mooooooooo moooooo mooo mooo moooooo moooo moo mooooooo mo moooooo,

a whale may be struck by one vessel, then escape, and be finally killed
m moooo moo mo mooooo mo moo mooooo, mooo mooooo, moo mo moooooo mooooo

and captured by another vessel; and herein are indirectly comprised
moo mooooooo mo moooooo mooooo; moo mooooo moo mooooooooo moooooooo

many minor contingencies, all partaking of this one grand feature. For
mooo moooo moooooooooooo, moo moooooooo mo mooo moo moooo moooooo. Moo

example,--after a weary and perilous chase and capture of a whale,
moooooo,--moooo m moooo moo mooooooo moooo moo moooooo mo m moooo,

the body may get loose from the ship by reason of a violent storm; and
moo mooo moo moo moooo mooo moo mooo mo mooooo mo m moooooo moooo; moo

drifting far away to leeward, be retaken by a second whaler, who, in a
mooooooo moo mooo mo moooooo, mo moooooo mo m mooooo mooooo, moo, mo m

calm, snugly tows it alongside, without risk of life or line. Thus
mooo, mooooo mooo mo moooooooo, moooooo mooo mo mooo mo mooo. Mooo

the most vexatious and violent disputes would often arise between
moo mooo moooooooo moo moooooo mooooooo moooo moooo moooo moooooo

the fishermen, were there not some written or unwritten, universal,
moo moooooooo, mooo moooo moo mooo moooooo mo moooooooo, moooooooo,

undisputed law applicable to all cases.
mooooooooo moo mooooooooo mo moo moooo.




Perhaps the only formal whaling code authorized by legislative
Moooooo moo mooo mooooo moooooo mooo mooooooooo mo moooooooooo

enactment, was that of Holland. It was decreed by the States-General in
moooooooo, moo mooo mo Moooooo. Mo moo moooooo mo moo Mooooo-Moooooo mo

A.D. 1695. But though no other nation has ever had any written whaling
M.M. mooo. Moo mooooo mo moooo mooooo moo mooo moo moo moooooo moooooo

law, yet the American fishermen have been their own legislators and
moo, moo moo Mooooooo moooooooo mooo mooo moooo moo moooooooooo moo

lawyers in this matter. They have provided a system which for terse
moooooo mo mooo mooooo. Mooo mooo mooooooo m mooooo moooo moo moooo

comprehensiveness surpasses Justinian's Pandects and the By-laws of
moooooooooooooooo moooooooo Moooooooo'm Mooooooo moo moo Mo-mooo mo

the Chinese Society for the Suppression of Meddling with other People's
moo Moooooo Moooooo moo moo Moooooooooo mo Mooooooo mooo moooo Mooooo'm

Business. Yes; these laws might be engraven on a Queen Anne's farthing,
Mooooooo. Moo; moooo mooo moooo mo mooooooo mo m Moooo Mooo'm mooooooo,

or the barb of a harpoon, and worn round the neck, so small are they.
mo moo mooo mo m moooooo, moo mooo moooo moo mooo, mo moooo moo mooo.




I. A Fast-Fish belongs to the party fast to it.
M. M Mooo-Mooo moooooo mo moo moooo mooo mo mo.




II. A Loose-Fish is fair game for anybody who can soonest catch it.
MO. M Moooo-Mooo mo mooo mooo moo moooooo moo moo moooooo moooo mo.




But what plays the mischief with this masterly code is the admirable
Moo mooo moooo moo mooooooo mooo mooo mooooooo mooo mo moo moooooooo

brevity of it, which necessitates a vast volume of commentaries to
moooooo mo mo, moooo mooooooooooo m mooo mooooo mo mooooooooooo mo

expound it.
moooooo mo.




First: What is a Fast-Fish? Alive or dead a fish is technically fast,
Moooo: Mooo mo m Mooo-Mooo? Moooo mo mooo m mooo mo moooooooooo mooo,

when it is connected with an occupied ship or boat, by any medium at all
mooo mo mo moooooooo mooo mo mooooooo mooo mo mooo, mo moo mooooo mo moo

controllable by the occupant or occupants,--a mast, an oar, a nine-inch
mooooooooooo mo moo mooooooo mo moooooooo,--m mooo, mo moo, m mooo-mooo

cable, a telegraph wire, or a strand of cobweb, it is all the same.
moooo, m moooooooo mooo, mo m mooooo mo mooooo, mo mo moo moo mooo.

Likewise a fish is technically fast when it bears a waif, or any other
Mooooooo m mooo mo moooooooooo mooo mooo mo moooo m mooo, mo moo moooo

recognised symbol of possession; so long as the party waifing it plainly
mooooooooo mooooo mo mooooooooo; mo mooo mo moo moooo moooooo mo moooooo

evince their ability at any time to take it alongside, as well as their
mooooo moooo moooooo mo moo mooo mo mooo mo moooooooo, mo mooo mo moooo

intention so to do.
moooooooo mo mo mo.




These are scientific commentaries; but the commentaries of the whalemen
Moooo moo mooooooooo mooooooooooo; moo moo mooooooooooo mo moo mooooooo

themselves sometimes consist in hard words and harder knocks--the
mooooooooo moooooooo moooooo mo mooo moooo moo mooooo mooooo--moo

Coke-upon-Littleton of the fist. True, among the more upright and
Mooo-mooo-Moooooooo mo moo mooo. Mooo, moooo moo mooo moooooo moo

honourable whalemen allowances are always made for peculiar cases,
mooooooooo mooooooo mooooooooo moo mooooo mooo moo mooooooo moooo,

where it would be an outrageous moral injustice for one party to claim
moooo mo moooo mo mo mooooooooo moooo moooooooo moo moo moooo mo moooo

possession of a whale previously chased or killed by another party. But
mooooooooo mo m moooo mooooooooo mooooo mo mooooo mo moooooo moooo. Moo

others are by no means so scrupulous.
mooooo moo mo mo moooo mo mooooooooo.




Some fifty years ago there was a curious case of whale-trover litigated
Mooo moooo moooo moo moooo moo m moooooo mooo mo moooo-mooooo moooooooo

in England, wherein the plaintiffs set forth that after a hard chase of
mo Moooooo, moooooo moo mooooooooo moo moooo mooo moooo m mooo moooo mo

a whale in the Northern seas; and when indeed they (the plaintiffs) had
m moooo mo moo Mooooooo mooo; moo mooo mooooo mooo (moo mooooooooo) moo

succeeded in harpooning the fish; they were at last, through peril of
moooooooo mo mooooooooo moo mooo; mooo mooo mo mooo, moooooo moooo mo

their lives, obliged to forsake not only their lines, but their boat
moooo moooo, moooooo mo moooooo moo mooo moooo moooo, moo moooo mooo

itself. Ultimately the defendants (the crew of another ship) came up
mooooo. Mooooooooo moo mooooooooo (moo mooo mo moooooo mooo) mooo mo

with the whale, struck, killed, seized, and finally appropriated it
mooo moo moooo, mooooo, mooooo, mooooo, moo moooooo mooooooooooo mo

before the very eyes of the plaintiffs. And when those defendants were
mooooo moo mooo mooo mo moo mooooooooo. Moo mooo moooo mooooooooo mooo

remonstrated with, their captain snapped his fingers in the plaintiffs'
mooooooooooo mooo, moooo moooooo moooooo moo moooooo mo moo mooooooooo'

teeth, and assured them that by way of doxology to the deed he had done,
moooo, moo moooooo mooo mooo mo moo mo mooooooo mo moo mooo mo moo mooo,

he would now retain their line, harpoons, and boat, which had remained
mo moooo moo mooooo moooo mooo, mooooooo, moo mooo, moooo moo mooooooo

attached to the whale at the time of the seizure. Wherefore the
mooooooo mo moo moooo mo moo mooo mo moo moooooo. Moooooooo moo

plaintiffs now sued for the recovery of the value of their whale, line,
mooooooooo moo mooo moo moo mooooooo mo moo moooo mo moooo moooo, mooo,

harpoons, and boat.
mooooooo, moo mooo.




Mr. Erskine was counsel for the defendants; Lord Ellenborough was
Mo. Moooooo moo moooooo moo moo mooooooooo; Mooo Mooooooooooo moo

the judge. In the course of the defence, the witty Erskine went on
moo moooo. Mo moo mooooo mo moo moooooo, moo moooo Moooooo mooo mo

to illustrate his position, by alluding to a recent crim. con.
mo mooooooooo moo mooooooo, mo mooooooo mo m mooooo mooo. moo.

case, wherein a gentleman, after in vain trying to bridle his wife's
mooo, moooooo m moooooooo, moooo mo mooo mooooo mo mooooo moo mooo'm

viciousness, had at last abandoned her upon the seas of life; but in
moooooooooo, moo mo mooo moooooooo moo mooo moo mooo mo mooo; moo mo

the course of years, repenting of that step, he instituted an action to
moo mooooo mo moooo, moooooooo mo mooo mooo, mo mooooooooo mo mooooo mo

recover possession of her. Erskine was on the other side; and he
moooooo mooooooooo mo moo. Moooooo moo mo moo moooo mooo; moo mo

then supported it by saying, that though the gentleman had originally
mooo moooooooo mo mo mooooo, mooo mooooo moo moooooooo moo mooooooooo

harpooned the lady, and had once had her fast, and only by reason of the
moooooooo moo mooo, moo moo mooo moo moo mooo, moo mooo mo mooooo mo moo

great stress of her plunging viciousness, had at last abandoned her; yet
moooo mooooo mo moo mooooooo moooooooooo, moo mo mooo moooooooo moo; moo

abandon her he did, so that she became a loose-fish; and therefore
moooooo moo mo moo, mo mooo moo mooooo m moooo-mooo; moo moooooooo

when a subsequent gentleman re-harpooned her, the lady then became that
mooo m mooooooooo moooooooo mo-moooooooo moo, moo mooo mooo mooooo mooo

subsequent gentleman's property, along with whatever harpoon might have
mooooooooo moooooooo'm mooooooo, moooo mooo mooooooo moooooo moooo mooo

been found sticking in her.
mooo moooo mooooooo mo moo.




Now in the present case Erskine contended that the examples of the whale
Moo mo moo moooooo mooo Moooooo moooooooo mooo moo mooooooo mo moo moooo

and the lady were reciprocally illustrative of each other.
moo moo mooo mooo mooooooooooo mooooooooooo mo mooo moooo.




These pleadings, and the counter pleadings, being duly heard, the very
Moooo moooooooo, moo moo moooooo moooooooo, moooo mooo moooo, moo mooo

learned Judge in set terms decided, to wit,--That as for the boat, he
moooooo Moooo mo moo moooo moooooo, mo moo,--Mooo mo moo moo mooo, mo

awarded it to the plaintiffs, because they had merely abandoned it
moooooo mo mo moo mooooooooo, moooooo mooo moo mooooo moooooooo mo

to save their lives; but that with regard to the controverted whale,
mo mooo moooo moooo; moo mooo mooo mooooo mo moo mooooooooooo moooo,

harpoons, and line, they belonged to the defendants; the whale, because
mooooooo, moo mooo, mooo mooooooo mo moo mooooooooo; moo moooo, moooooo

it was a Loose-Fish at the time of the final capture; and the harpoons
mo moo m Moooo-Mooo mo moo mooo mo moo moooo moooooo; moo moo mooooooo

and line because when the fish made off with them, it (the fish)
moo mooo moooooo mooo moo mooo mooo moo mooo mooo, mo (moo mooo)

acquired a property in those articles; and hence anybody who afterwards
mooooooo m mooooooo mo moooo mooooooo; moo moooo moooooo moo mooooooooo

took the fish had a right to them. Now the defendants afterwards took
mooo moo mooo moo m moooo mo mooo. Moo moo mooooooooo mooooooooo mooo

the fish; ergo, the aforesaid articles were theirs.
moo mooo; mooo, moo moooooooo mooooooo mooo mooooo.




A common man looking at this decision of the very learned Judge, might
M mooooo moo moooooo mo mooo mooooooo mo moo mooo moooooo Moooo, moooo

possibly object to it. But ploughed up to the primary rock of the
mooooooo mooooo mo mo. Moo mooooooo mo mo moo moooooo mooo mo moo

matter, the two great principles laid down in the twin whaling laws
mooooo, moo moo moooo mooooooooo mooo mooo mo moo mooo moooooo mooo

previously quoted, and applied and elucidated by Lord Ellenborough in
mooooooooo mooooo, moo moooooo moo mooooooooo mo Mooo Mooooooooooo mo

the above cited case; these two laws touching Fast-Fish and Loose-Fish,
moo moooo moooo mooo; moooo moo mooo mooooooo Mooo-Mooo moo Moooo-Mooo,

I say, will, on reflection, be found the fundamentals of all human
M moo, mooo, mo mooooooooo, mo moooo moo mooooooooooo mo moo moooo

jurisprudence; for notwithstanding its complicated tracery of sculpture,
moooooooooooo; moo moooooooooooooo moo moooooooooo moooooo mo moooooooo,

the Temple of the Law, like the Temple of the Philistines, has but two
moo Mooooo mo moo Moo, mooo moo Mooooo mo moo Moooooooooo, moo moo moo

props to stand on.
moooo mo moooo mo.




Is it not a saying in every one's mouth, Possession is half of the law:
Mo mo moo m mooooo mo moooo moo'm moooo, Mooooooooo mo mooo mo moo moo:

that is, regardless of how the thing came into possession? But often
mooo mo, mooooooooo mo moo moo moooo mooo mooo mooooooooo? Moo moooo

possession is the whole of the law. What are the sinews and souls of
mooooooooo mo moo moooo mo moo moo. Mooo moo moo mooooo moo moooo mo

Russian serfs and Republican slaves but Fast-Fish, whereof possession is
Moooooo moooo moo Mooooooooo mooooo moo Mooo-Mooo, moooooo mooooooooo mo

the whole of the law? What to the rapacious landlord is the widow's last
moo moooo mo moo moo? Mooo mo moo moooooooo mooooooo mo moo moooo'm mooo

mite but a Fast-Fish? What is yonder undetected villain's marble mansion
mooo moo m Mooo-Mooo? Mooo mo mooooo mooooooooo moooooo'm mooooo moooooo

with a door-plate for a waif; what is that but a Fast-Fish? What is the
mooo m mooo-moooo moo m mooo; mooo mo mooo moo m Mooo-Mooo? Mooo mo moo

ruinous discount which Mordecai, the broker, gets from poor Woebegone,
moooooo mooooooo moooo Mooooooo, moo mooooo, mooo mooo mooo Moooooooo,

the bankrupt, on a loan to keep Woebegone's family from starvation;
moo mooooooo, mo m mooo mo mooo Moooooooo'm mooooo mooo mooooooooo;

what is that ruinous discount but a Fast-Fish? What is the Archbishop of
mooo mo mooo moooooo mooooooo moo m Mooo-Mooo? Mooo mo moo Mooooooooo mo

Savesoul's income of L100,000 seized from the scant bread and cheese
Mooooooo'm mooooo mo MOOO,moo mooooo mooo moo moooo moooo moo mooooo

of hundreds of thousands of broken-backed laborers (all sure of heaven
mo mooooooo mo moooooooo mo mooooo-mooooo mooooooo (moo mooo mo mooooo

without any of Savesoul's help) what is that globular L100,000 but a
moooooo moo mo Mooooooo'm mooo) mooo mo mooo mooooooo MOOO,moo moo m

Fast-Fish? What are the Duke of Dunder's hereditary towns and hamlets
Mooo-Mooo? Mooo moo moo Mooo mo Mooooo'm mooooooooo moooo moo moooooo

but Fast-Fish? What to that redoubted harpooneer, John Bull, is poor
moo Mooo-Mooo? Mooo mo mooo moooooooo mooooooooo, Mooo Mooo, mo mooo

Ireland, but a Fast-Fish? What to that apostolic lancer, Brother
Moooooo, moo m Mooo-Mooo? Mooo mo mooo moooooooo mooooo, Moooooo

Jonathan, is Texas but a Fast-Fish? And concerning all these, is not
Mooooooo, mo Moooo moo m Mooo-Mooo? Moo mooooooooo moo moooo, mo moo

Possession the whole of the law?
Mooooooooo moo moooo mo moo moo?




But if the doctrine of Fast-Fish be pretty generally applicable,
Moo mo moo mooooooo mo Mooo-Mooo mo mooooo moooooooo mooooooooo,

the kindred doctrine of Loose-Fish is still more widely so. That is
moo moooooo mooooooo mo Moooo-Mooo mo moooo mooo mooooo mo. Mooo mo

internationally and universally applicable.
moooooooooooooo moo moooooooooo mooooooooo.




What was America in 1492 but a Loose-Fish, in which Columbus struck the
Mooo moo Moooooo mo mooo moo m Moooo-Mooo, mo moooo Mooooooo mooooo moo

Spanish standard by way of waifing it for his royal master and mistress?
Moooooo mooooooo mo moo mo moooooo mo moo moo moooo mooooo moo mooooooo?

What was Poland to the Czar? What Greece to the Turk? What India
Mooo moo Mooooo mo moo Mooo? Mooo Mooooo mo moo Mooo? Mooo Moooo

to England? What at last will Mexico be to the United States? All
mo Moooooo? Mooo mo mooo mooo Mooooo mo mo moo Mooooo Mooooo? Moo

Loose-Fish.
Moooo-Mooo.




What are the Rights of Man and the Liberties of the World but
Mooo moo moo Mooooo mo Moo moo moo Moooooooo mo moo Moooo moo

Loose-Fish? What all men's minds and opinions but Loose-Fish? What is
Moooo-Mooo? Mooo moo moo'm moooo moo mooooooo moo Moooo-Mooo? Mooo mo

the principle of religious belief in them but a Loose-Fish? What to
moo moooooooo mo moooooooo mooooo mo mooo moo m Moooo-Mooo? Mooo mo

the ostentatious smuggling verbalists are the thoughts of thinkers but
moo mooooooooooo moooooooo mooooooooo moo moo mooooooo mo mooooooo moo

Loose-Fish? What is the great globe itself but a Loose-Fish? And what
Moooo-Mooo? Mooo mo moo moooo moooo mooooo moo m Moooo-Mooo? Moo mooo

are you, reader, but a Loose-Fish and a Fast-Fish, too?
moo moo, mooooo, moo m Moooo-Mooo moo m Mooo-Mooo, moo?










CHAPTER 90. Heads or Tails.
MOOOOOO mo. Moooo mo Moooo.







"De balena vero sufficit, si rex habeat caput, et regina caudam."
"Mo mooooo mooo mooooooo, mo moo mooooo moooo, mo mooooo mooooo."

BRACTON, L. 3, C. 3.
MOOOOOO, M. m, M. m.







Latin from the books of the Laws of England, which taken along with the
Moooo mooo moo moooo mo moo Mooo mo Moooooo, moooo moooo moooo mooo moo

context, means, that of all whales captured by anybody on the coast of
moooooo, moooo, mooo mo moo mooooo mooooooo mo moooooo mo moo moooo mo

that land, the King, as Honourary Grand Harpooneer, must have the head,
mooo mooo, moo Mooo, mo Moooooooo Moooo Mooooooooo, mooo mooo moo mooo,

and the Queen be respectfully presented with the tail. A division which,
moo moo Moooo mo mooooooooooo moooooooo mooo moo mooo. M mooooooo moooo,

in the whale, is much like halving an apple; there is no intermediate
mo moo moooo, mo mooo mooo moooooo mo moooo; moooo mo mo mooooooooooo

remainder. Now as this law, under a modified form, is to this day in
moooooooo. Moo mo mooo moo, moooo m mooooooo mooo, mo mo mooo moo mo

force in England; and as it offers in various respects a strange anomaly
moooo mo Moooooo; moo mo mo mooooo mo moooooo mooooooo m moooooo moooooo

touching the general law of Fast and Loose-Fish, it is here treated of
mooooooo moo moooooo moo mo Mooo moo Moooo-Mooo, mo mo mooo moooooo mo

in a separate chapter, on the same courteous principle that prompts
mo m mooooooo moooooo, mo moo mooo moooooooo moooooooo mooo moooooo

the English railways to be at the expense of a separate car, specially
moo Moooooo mooooooo mo mo mo moo moooooo mo m mooooooo moo, moooooooo

reserved for the accommodation of royalty. In the first place, in
mooooooo moo moo moooooooooooo mo moooooo. Mo moo moooo moooo, mo

curious proof of the fact that the above-mentioned law is still in
moooooo moooo mo moo mooo mooo moo moooo-moooooooo moo mo moooo mo

force, I proceed to lay before you a circumstance that happened within
moooo, M moooooo mo moo mooooo moo m mooooooooooo mooo mooooooo mooooo

the last two years.
moo mooo moo moooo.




It seems that some honest mariners of Dover, or Sandwich, or some one
Mo moooo mooo mooo mooooo mooooooo mo Moooo, mo Mooooooo, mo mooo moo

of the Cinque Ports, had after a hard chase succeeded in killing and
mo moo Mooooo Moooo, moo moooo m mooo moooo moooooooo mo moooooo moo

beaching a fine whale which they had originally descried afar off from
mooooooo m mooo moooo moooo mooo moo mooooooooo mooooooo mooo moo mooo

the shore. Now the Cinque Ports are partially or somehow under the
moo moooo. Moo moo Mooooo Moooo moo moooooooo mo moooooo moooo moo

jurisdiction of a sort of policeman or beadle, called a Lord Warden.
mooooooooooo mo m mooo mo moooooooo mo mooooo, mooooo m Mooo Mooooo.

Holding the office directly from the crown, I believe, all the royal
Moooooo moo mooooo mooooooo mooo moo moooo, M moooooo, moo moo moooo

emoluments incident to the Cinque Port territories become by assignment
mooooooooo mooooooo mo moo Mooooo Mooo moooooooooo mooooo mo mooooooooo

his. By some writers this office is called a sinecure. But not so.
moo. Mo mooo moooooo mooo mooooo mo mooooo m mooooooo. Moo moo mo.

Because the Lord Warden is busily employed at times in fobbing his
Moooooo moo Mooo Mooooo mo mooooo mooooooo mo moooo mo moooooo moo

perquisites; which are his chiefly by virtue of that same fobbing of
moooooooooo; moooo moo moo moooooo mo mooooo mo mooo mooo moooooo mo

them.
mooo.




Now when these poor sun-burnt mariners, bare-footed, and with their
Moo mooo moooo mooo moo-moooo mooooooo, mooo-mooooo, moo mooo moooo

trowsers rolled high up on their eely legs, had wearily hauled their fat
mooooooo mooooo mooo mo mo moooo mooo mooo, moo moooooo mooooo moooo moo

fish high and dry, promising themselves a good L150 from the precious
mooo mooo moo moo, moooooooo mooooooooo m mooo MOOO mooo moo mooooooo

oil and bone; and in fantasy sipping rare tea with their wives, and good
moo moo mooo; moo mo moooooo moooooo mooo moo mooo moooo moooo, moo mooo

ale with their cronies, upon the strength of their respective shares; up
moo mooo moooo moooooo, mooo moo mooooooo mo moooo mooooooooo mooooo; mo

steps a very learned and most Christian and charitable gentleman, with
moooo m mooo moooooo moo mooo Moooooooo moo mooooooooo moooooooo, mooo

a copy of Blackstone under his arm; and laying it upon the whale's head,
m mooo mo Mooooooooo moooo moo moo; moo mooooo mo mooo moo moooo'm mooo,

he says--"Hands off! this fish, my masters, is a Fast-Fish. I seize it
mo mooo--"Moooo moo! mooo mooo, mo moooooo, mo m Mooo-Mooo. M moooo mo

as the Lord Warden's." Upon this the poor mariners in their respectful
mo moo Mooo Mooooo'm." Mooo mooo moo mooo mooooooo mo moooo mooooooooo

consternation--so truly English--knowing not what to say, fall to
moooooooooooo--mo moooo Moooooo--moooooo moo mooo mo moo, mooo mo

vigorously scratching their heads all round; meanwhile ruefully glancing
mooooooooo mooooooooo moooo moooo moo moooo; moooooooo mooooooo mooooooo

from the whale to the stranger. But that did in nowise mend the matter,
mooo moo moooo mo moo mooooooo. Moo mooo moo mo mooooo mooo moo mooooo,

or at all soften the hard heart of the learned gentleman with the copy
mo mo moo mooooo moo mooo moooo mo moo moooooo moooooooo mooo moo mooo

of Blackstone. At length one of them, after long scratching about for
mo Mooooooooo. Mo mooooo moo mo mooo, moooo mooo mooooooooo moooo moo

his ideas, made bold to speak,
moo moooo, mooo mooo mo moooo,




"Please, sir, who is the Lord Warden?"
"Mooooo, moo, moo mo moo Mooo Mooooo?"




"The Duke."
"Moo Mooo."




"But the duke had nothing to do with taking this fish?"
"Moo moo mooo moo moooooo mo mo mooo mooooo mooo mooo?"




"It is his."
"Mo mo moo."




"We have been at great trouble, and peril, and some expense, and is
"Mo mooo mooo mo moooo moooooo, moo moooo, moo mooo moooooo, moo mo

all that to go to the Duke's benefit; we getting nothing at all for our
moo mooo mo mo mo moo Mooo'm moooooo; mo moooooo moooooo mo moo moo moo

pains but our blisters?"
moooo moo moo mooooooo?"




"It is his."
"Mo mo moo."




"Is the Duke so very poor as to be forced to this desperate mode of
"Mo moo Mooo mo mooo mooo mo mo mo mooooo mo mooo moooooooo mooo mo

getting a livelihood?"
moooooo m mooooooooo?"




"It is his."
"Mo mo moo."




"I thought to relieve my old bed-ridden mother by part of my share of
"M moooooo mo moooooo mo moo moo-mooooo mooooo mo mooo mo mo moooo mo

this whale."
mooo moooo."




"It is his."
"Mo mo moo."




"Won't the Duke be content with a quarter or a half?"
"Moo'm moo Mooo mo moooooo mooo m moooooo mo m mooo?"




"It is his."
"Mo mo moo."




In a word, the whale was seized and sold, and his Grace the Duke of
Mo m mooo, moo moooo moo mooooo moo mooo, moo moo Moooo moo Mooo mo

Wellington received the money. Thinking that viewed in some particular
Mooooooooo mooooooo moo moooo. Mooooooo mooo mooooo mo mooo mooooooooo

lights, the case might by a bare possibility in some small degree be
mooooo, moo mooo moooo mo m mooo moooooooooo mo mooo moooo mooooo mo

deemed, under the circumstances, a rather hard one, an honest clergyman
mooooo, moooo moo moooooooooooo, m mooooo mooo moo, mo mooooo moooooooo

of the town respectfully addressed a note to his Grace, begging him to
mo moo mooo mooooooooooo moooooooo m mooo mo moo Moooo, moooooo moo mo

take the case of those unfortunate mariners into full consideration. To
mooo moo mooo mo moooo moooooooooo mooooooo mooo mooo moooooooooooo. Mo

which my Lord Duke in substance replied (both letters were published)
moooo mo Mooo Mooo mo moooooooo moooooo (mooo moooooo mooo moooooooo)

that he had already done so, and received the money, and would be
mooo mo moo moooooo mooo mo, moo mooooooo moo moooo, moo moooo mo

obliged to the reverend gentleman if for the future he (the reverend
moooooo mo moo mooooooo moooooooo mo moo moo mooooo mo (moo mooooooo

gentleman) would decline meddling with other people's business. Is
moooooooo) moooo moooooo mooooooo mooo moooo mooooo'm mooooooo. Mo

this the still militant old man, standing at the corners of the three
mooo moo moooo mooooooo moo moo, mooooooo mo moo moooooo mo moo moooo

kingdoms, on all hands coercing alms of beggars?
mooooooo, mo moo moooo mooooooo mooo mo moooooo?




It will readily be seen that in this case the alleged right of the
Mo mooo moooooo mo mooo mooo mo mooo mooo moo moooooo moooo mo moo

Duke to the whale was a delegated one from the Sovereign. We must needs
Mooo mo moo moooo moo m moooooooo moo mooo moo Moooooooo. Mo mooo moooo

inquire then on what principle the Sovereign is originally invested with
moooooo mooo mo mooo moooooooo moo Moooooooo mo mooooooooo mooooooo mooo

that right. The law itself has already been set forth. But Plowdon gives
mooo moooo. Moo moo mooooo moo moooooo mooo moo moooo. Moo Moooooo moooo

us the reason for it. Says Plowdon, the whale so caught belongs to
mo moo mooooo moo mo. Mooo Moooooo, moo moooo mo mooooo moooooo mo

the King and Queen, "because of its superior excellence." And by the
moo Mooo moo Moooo, "moooooo mo moo mooooooo mooooooooo." Moo mo moo

soundest commentators this has ever been held a cogent argument in such
mooooooo mooooooooooo mooo moo mooo mooo mooo m mooooo mooooooo mo mooo

matters.
moooooo.




But why should the King have the head, and the Queen the tail? A reason
Moo moo mooooo moo Mooo mooo moo mooo, moo moo Moooo moo mooo? M mooooo

for that, ye lawyers!
moo mooo, mo moooooo!




In his treatise on "Queen-Gold," or Queen-pinmoney, an old King's Bench
Mo moo mooooooo mo "Moooo-Mooo," mo Moooo-mooooooo, mo moo Mooo'm Moooo

author, one William Prynne, thus discourseth: "Ye tail is ye Queen's,
mooooo, moo Moooooo Mooooo, mooo moooooooooo: "Mo mooo mo mo Moooo'm,

that ye Queen's wardrobe may be supplied with ye whalebone." Now this
mooo mo Moooo'm mooooooo moo mo mooooooo mooo mo moooooooo." Moo mooo

was written at a time when the black limber bone of the Greenland or
moo moooooo mo m mooo mooo moo moooo mooooo mooo mo moo Moooooooo mo

Right whale was largely used in ladies' bodices. But this same bone
Moooo moooo moo moooooo mooo mo mooooo' moooooo. Moo mooo mooo mooo

is not in the tail; it is in the head, which is a sad mistake for
mo moo mo moo mooo; mo mo mo moo mooo, moooo mo m moo moooooo moo

a sagacious lawyer like Prynne. But is the Queen a mermaid, to be
m moooooooo mooooo mooo Mooooo. Moo mo moo Moooo m moooooo, mo mo

presented with a tail? An allegorical meaning may lurk here.
moooooooo mooo m mooo? Mo moooooooooo moooooo moo mooo mooo.




There are two royal fish so styled by the English law writers--the whale
Moooo moo moo moooo mooo mo mooooo mo moo Moooooo moo moooooo--moo moooo

and the sturgeon; both royal property under certain limitations, and
moo moo mooooooo; mooo moooo mooooooo moooo moooooo moooooooooo, moo

nominally supplying the tenth branch of the crown's ordinary revenue.
moooooooo moooooooo moo moooo mooooo mo moo moooo'm mooooooo moooooo.

I know not that any other author has hinted of the matter; but by
M mooo moo mooo moo moooo mooooo moo mooooo mo moo mooooo; moo mo

inference it seems to me that the sturgeon must be divided in the same
moooooooo mo moooo mo mo mooo moo mooooooo mooo mo moooooo mo moo mooo

way as the whale, the King receiving the highly dense and elastic head
moo mo moo moooo, moo Mooo moooooooo moo mooooo moooo moo moooooo mooo

peculiar to that fish, which, symbolically regarded, may possibly be
mooooooo mo mooo mooo, moooo, mooooooooooo mooooooo, moo mooooooo mo

humorously grounded upon some presumed congeniality. And thus there
mooooooooo mooooooo mooo mooo mooooooo mooooooooooo. Moo mooo moooo

seems a reason in all things, even in law.
moooo m mooooo mo moo mooooo, mooo mo moo.










CHAPTER 91. The Pequod Meets The Rose-Bud.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Mooooo Moooo Moo Mooo-Moo.







"In vain it was to rake for Ambergriese in the paunch of this Leviathan,
"Mo mooo mo moo mo mooo moo Moooooooooo mo moo mooooo mo mooo Moooooooo,

insufferable fetor denying not inquiry." SIR T. BROWNE, V.E.
mooooooooooo moooo moooooo moo moooooo." MOO M. MOOOOO, M.M.







It was a week or two after the last whaling scene recounted, and when we
Mo moo m mooo mo moo moooo moo mooo moooooo moooo moooooooo, moo mooo mo

were slowly sailing over a sleepy, vapoury, mid-day sea, that the many
mooo mooooo moooooo mooo m mooooo, moooooo, moo-moo moo, mooo moo mooo

noses on the Pequod's deck proved more vigilant discoverers than the
moooo mo moo Mooooo'm mooo mooooo mooo mooooooo moooooooooo mooo moo

three pairs of eyes aloft. A peculiar and not very pleasant smell was
moooo moooo mo mooo moooo. M mooooooo moo moo mooo mooooooo moooo moo

smelt in the sea.
moooo mo moo moo.




"I will bet something now," said Stubb, "that somewhere hereabouts are
"M mooo moo moooooooo moo," mooo Moooo, "mooo moooooooo mooooooooo moo

some of those drugged whales we tickled the other day. I thought they
mooo mo moooo moooooo mooooo mo moooooo moo moooo moo. M moooooo mooo

would keel up before long."
moooo mooo mo mooooo mooo."




Presently, the vapours in advance slid aside; and there in the distance
Moooooooo, moo moooooo mo moooooo mooo moooo; moo moooo mo moo mooooooo

lay a ship, whose furled sails betokened that some sort of whale must be
moo m mooo, moooo mooooo moooo moooooooo mooo mooo mooo mo moooo mooo mo

alongside. As we glided nearer, the stranger showed French colours from
moooooooo. Mo mo mooooo mooooo, moo mooooooo mooooo Mooooo moooooo mooo

his peak; and by the eddying cloud of vulture sea-fowl that circled, and
moo mooo; moo mo moo moooooo moooo mo moooooo moo-mooo mooo moooooo, moo

hovered, and swooped around him, it was plain that the whale alongside
moooooo, moo moooooo mooooo moo, mo moo moooo mooo moo moooo moooooooo

must be what the fishermen call a blasted whale, that is, a whale that
mooo mo mooo moo moooooooo mooo m moooooo moooo, mooo mo, m moooo mooo

has died unmolested on the sea, and so floated an unappropriated corpse.
moo mooo mooooooooo mo moo moo, moo mo moooooo mo mooooooooooooo mooooo.

It may well be conceived, what an unsavory odor such a mass must
Mo moo mooo mo moooooooo, mooo mo mooooooo mooo mooo m mooo mooo

exhale; worse than an Assyrian city in the plague, when the living are
mooooo; moooo mooo mo Mooooooo mooo mo moo mooooo, mooo moo mooooo moo

incompetent to bury the departed. So intolerable indeed is it regarded
moooooooooo mo mooo moo mooooooo. Mo moooooooooo mooooo mo mo mooooooo

by some, that no cupidity could persuade them to moor alongside of it.
mo mooo, mooo mo mooooooo moooo mooooooo mooo mo mooo moooooooo mo mo.

Yet are there those who will still do it; notwithstanding the fact that
Moo moo moooo moooo moo mooo moooo mo mo; moooooooooooooo moo mooo mooo

the oil obtained from such subjects is of a very inferior quality, and
moo moo mooooooo mooo mooo mooooooo mo mo m mooo mooooooo moooooo, moo

by no means of the nature of attar-of-rose.
mo mo moooo mo moo mooooo mo moooo-mo-mooo.




Coming still nearer with the expiring breeze, we saw that the Frenchman
Mooooo moooo mooooo mooo moo mooooooo mooooo, mo moo mooo moo Moooooooo

had a second whale alongside; and this second whale seemed even more
moo m mooooo moooo moooooooo; moo mooo mooooo moooo mooooo mooo mooo

of a nosegay than the first. In truth, it turned out to be one of
mo m moooooo mooo moo moooo. Mo moooo, mo mooooo moo mo mo moo mo

those problematical whales that seem to dry up and die with a sort
moooo moooooooooooo mooooo mooo mooo mo moo mo moo moo mooo m mooo

of prodigious dyspepsia, or indigestion; leaving their defunct bodies
mo mooooooooo moooooooo, mo moooooooooo; moooooo moooo moooooo mooooo

almost entirely bankrupt of anything like oil. Nevertheless, in the
mooooo mooooooo mooooooo mo mooooooo mooo moo. Mooooooooooo, mo moo

proper place we shall see that no knowing fisherman will ever turn
mooooo moooo mo moooo moo mooo mo moooooo moooooooo mooo mooo mooo

up his nose at such a whale as this, however much he may shun blasted
mo moo mooo mo mooo m moooo mo mooo, moooooo mooo mo moo mooo moooooo

whales in general.
mooooo mo moooooo.




The Pequod had now swept so nigh to the stranger, that Stubb vowed
Moo Mooooo moo moo moooo mo mooo mo moo mooooooo, mooo Moooo moooo

he recognised his cutting spade-pole entangled in the lines that were
mo mooooooooo moo moooooo moooo-mooo moooooooo mo moo moooo mooo mooo

knotted round the tail of one of these whales.
moooooo moooo moo mooo mo moo mo moooo mooooo.




"There's a pretty fellow, now," he banteringly laughed, standing in the
"Moooo'm m mooooo mooooo, moo," mo moooooooooo moooooo, mooooooo mo moo

ship's bows, "there's a jackal for ye! I well know that these Crappoes
mooo'm mooo, "moooo'm m mooooo moo mo! M mooo mooo mooo moooo Mooooooo

of Frenchmen are but poor devils in the fishery; sometimes lowering
mo Moooooooo moo moo mooo mooooo mo moo moooooo; moooooooo mooooooo

their boats for breakers, mistaking them for Sperm Whale spouts; yes,
moooo moooo moo mooooooo, moooooooo mooo moo Moooo Moooo mooooo; moo,

and sometimes sailing from their port with their hold full of boxes of
moo moooooooo moooooo mooo moooo mooo mooo moooo mooo mooo mo moooo mo

tallow candles, and cases of snuffers, foreseeing that all the oil they
mooooo moooooo, moo moooo mo mooooooo, mooooooooo mooo moo moo moo mooo

will get won't be enough to dip the Captain's wick into; aye, we all
mooo moo moo'm mo mooooo mo moo moo Moooooo'm mooo mooo; moo, mo moo

know these things; but look ye, here's a Crappo that is content with our
mooo moooo mooooo; moo mooo mo, mooo'm m Mooooo mooo mo moooooo mooo moo

leavings, the drugged whale there, I mean; aye, and is content too with
mooooooo, moo moooooo moooo moooo, M mooo; moo, moo mo moooooo moo mooo

scraping the dry bones of that other precious fish he has there. Poor
mooooooo moo moo moooo mo mooo moooo mooooooo mooo mo moo moooo. Mooo

devil! I say, pass round a hat, some one, and let's make him a present
moooo! M moo, mooo moooo m moo, mooo moo, moo moo'm mooo moo m moooooo

of a little oil for dear charity's sake. For what oil he'll get from
mo m mooooo moo moo mooo moooooo'm mooo. Moo mooo moo mo'mo moo mooo

that drugged whale there, wouldn't be fit to burn in a jail; no, not
mooo moooooo moooo moooo, mooooo'm mo moo mo mooo mo m mooo; mo, moo

in a condemned cell. And as for the other whale, why, I'll agree to get
mo m moooooooo mooo. Moo mo moo moo moooo moooo, moo, M'mo moooo mo moo

more oil by chopping up and trying out these three masts of ours, than
mooo moo mo mooooooo mo moo mooooo moo moooo moooo moooo mo mooo, mooo

he'll get from that bundle of bones; though, now that I think of it, it
mo'mo moo mooo mooo mooooo mo moooo; mooooo, moo mooo M moooo mo mo, mo

may contain something worth a good deal more than oil; yes, ambergris.
moo moooooo moooooooo moooo m mooo mooo mooo mooo moo; moo, moooooooo.

I wonder now if our old man has thought of that. It's worth trying. Yes,
M mooooo moo mo moo moo moo moo moooooo mo mooo. Mo'm moooo mooooo. Moo,

I'm for it;" and so saying he started for the quarter-deck.
M'm moo mo;" moo mo mooooo mo moooooo moo moo moooooo-mooo.




By this time the faint air had become a complete calm; so that whether
Mo mooo mooo moo moooo moo moo mooooo m mooooooo mooo; mo mooo moooooo

or no, the Pequod was now fairly entrapped in the smell, with no hope of
mo mo, moo Mooooo moo moo mooooo moooooooo mo moo moooo, mooo mo mooo mo

escaping except by its breezing up again. Issuing from the cabin, Stubb
mooooooo mooooo mo moo mooooooo mo moooo. Moooooo mooo moo moooo, Moooo

now called his boat's crew, and pulled off for the stranger. Drawing
moo mooooo moo mooo'm mooo, moo mooooo moo moo moo mooooooo. Moooooo

across her bow, he perceived that in accordance with the fanciful French
mooooo moo moo, mo moooooooo mooo mo mooooooooo mooo moo mooooooo Mooooo

taste, the upper part of her stem-piece was carved in the likeness of a
moooo, moo moooo mooo mo moo mooo-moooo moo mooooo mo moo mooooooo mo m

huge drooping stalk, was painted green, and for thorns had copper
mooo mooooooo moooo, moo moooooo moooo, moo moo mooooo moo mooooo

spikes projecting from it here and there; the whole terminating in a
mooooo mooooooooo mooo mo mooo moo moooo; moo moooo moooooooooo mo m

symmetrical folded bulb of a bright red colour. Upon her head boards, in
moooooooooo mooooo mooo mo m mooooo moo mooooo. Mooo moo mooo mooooo, mo

large gilt letters, he read "Bouton de Rose,"--Rose-button, or Rose-bud;
moooo mooo moooooo, mo mooo "Mooooo mo Mooo,"--Mooo-mooooo, mo Mooo-moo;

and this was the romantic name of this aromatic ship.
moo mooo moo moo mooooooo mooo mo mooo mooooooo mooo.




Though Stubb did not understand the BOUTON part of the inscription, yet
Mooooo Moooo moo moo mooooooooo moo MOOOOO mooo mo moo moooooooooo, moo

the word ROSE, and the bulbous figure-head put together, sufficiently
moo mooo MOOO, moo moo moooooo mooooo-mooo moo mooooooo, mooooooooooo

explained the whole to him.
moooooooo moo moooo mo moo.




"A wooden rose-bud, eh?" he cried with his hand to his nose, "that will
"M mooooo mooo-moo, mo?" mo moooo mooo moo mooo mo moo mooo, "mooo mooo

do very well; but how like all creation it smells!"
mo mooo mooo; moo moo mooo moo mooooooo mo mooooo!"




Now in order to hold direct communication with the people on deck, he
Moo mo moooo mo mooo mooooo moooooooooooo mooo moo mooooo mo mooo, mo

had to pull round the bows to the starboard side, and thus come close to
moo mo mooo moooo moo mooo mo moo moooooooo mooo, moo mooo mooo moooo mo

the blasted whale; and so talk over it.
moo moooooo moooo; moo mo mooo mooo mo.




Arrived then at this spot, with one hand still to his nose, he
Moooooo mooo mo mooo mooo, mooo moo mooo moooo mo moo mooo, mo

bawled--"Bouton-de-Rose, ahoy! are there any of you Bouton-de-Roses that
mooooo--"Mooooo-mo-Mooo, mooo! moo moooo moo mo moo Mooooo-mo-Moooo mooo

speak English?"
moooo Moooooo?"




"Yes," rejoined a Guernsey-man from the bulwarks, who turned out to be
"Moo," mooooooo m Mooooooo-moo mooo moo mooooooo, moo mooooo moo mo mo

the chief-mate.
moo moooo-mooo.




"Well, then, my Bouton-de-Rose-bud, have you seen the White Whale?"
"Mooo, mooo, mo Mooooo-mo-Mooo-moo, mooo moo mooo moo Moooo Moooo?"




"WHAT whale?"
"MOOO moooo?"




"The WHITE Whale--a Sperm Whale--Moby Dick, have ye seen him?
"Moo MOOOO Moooo--m Moooo Moooo--Mooo Mooo, mooo mo mooo moo?




"Never heard of such a whale. Cachalot Blanche! White Whale--no."
"Moooo moooo mo mooo m moooo. Mooooooo Moooooo! Moooo Moooo--mo."




"Very good, then; good bye now, and I'll call again in a minute."
"Mooo mooo, mooo; mooo moo moo, moo M'mo mooo moooo mo m mooooo."




Then rapidly pulling back towards the Pequod, and seeing Ahab leaning
Mooo moooooo moooooo mooo moooooo moo Mooooo, moo mooooo Mooo moooooo

over the quarter-deck rail awaiting his report, he moulded his two hands
mooo moo moooooo-mooo mooo mooooooo moo mooooo, mo moooooo moo moo moooo

into a trumpet and shouted--"No, Sir! No!" Upon which Ahab retired, and
mooo m moooooo moo moooooo--"Mo, Moo! Mo!" Mooo moooo Mooo moooooo, moo

Stubb returned to the Frenchman.
Moooo mooooooo mo moo Moooooooo.




He now perceived that the Guernsey-man, who had just got into the
Mo moo moooooooo mooo moo Mooooooo-moo, moo moo mooo moo mooo moo

chains, and was using a cutting-spade, had slung his nose in a sort of
mooooo, moo moo moooo m moooooo-moooo, moo moooo moo mooo mo m mooo mo

bag.
moo.




"What's the matter with your nose, there?" said Stubb. "Broke it?"
"Mooo'm moo mooooo mooo mooo mooo, moooo?" mooo Moooo. "Moooo mo?"




"I wish it was broken, or that I didn't have any nose at all!" answered
"M mooo mo moo mooooo, mo mooo M mooo'm mooo moo mooo mo moo!" mooooooo

the Guernsey-man, who did not seem to relish the job he was at very
moo Mooooooo-moo, moo moo moo mooo mo mooooo moo moo mo moo mo mooo

much. "But what are you holding YOURS for?"
mooo. "Moo mooo moo moo moooooo MOOOO moo?"




"Oh, nothing! It's a wax nose; I have to hold it on. Fine day, ain't it?
"Mo, moooooo! Mo'm m moo mooo; M mooo mo mooo mo mo. Mooo moo, moo'm mo?

Air rather gardenny, I should say; throw us a bunch of posies, will ye,
Moo mooooo mooooooo, M mooooo moo; moooo mo m moooo mo mooooo, mooo mo,

Bouton-de-Rose?"
Mooooo-mo-Mooo?"




"What in the devil's name do you want here?" roared the Guernseyman,
"Mooo mo moo moooo'm mooo mo moo mooo mooo?" mooooo moo Moooooooooo,

flying into a sudden passion.
mooooo mooo m mooooo moooooo.




"Oh! keep cool--cool? yes, that's the word! why don't you pack those
"Mo! mooo mooo--mooo? moo, mooo'm moo mooo! moo moo'm moo mooo moooo

whales in ice while you're working at 'em? But joking aside, though; do
mooooo mo moo moooo moo'mo moooooo mo 'mo? Moo mooooo moooo, mooooo; mo

you know, Rose-bud, that it's all nonsense trying to get any oil out of
moo mooo, Mooo-moo, mooo mo'm moo mooooooo mooooo mo moo moo moo moo mo

such whales? As for that dried up one, there, he hasn't a gill in his
mooo mooooo? Mo moo mooo moooo mo moo, moooo, mo mooo'm m mooo mo moo

whole carcase."
moooo moooooo."




"I know that well enough; but, d'ye see, the Captain here won't believe
"M mooo mooo mooo mooooo; moo, m'mo moo, moo Moooooo mooo moo'm moooooo

it; this is his first voyage; he was a Cologne manufacturer before. But
mo; mooo mo moo moooo mooooo; mo moo m Moooooo mooooooooooo mooooo. Moo

come aboard, and mayhap he'll believe you, if he won't me; and so I'll
mooo mooooo, moo mooooo mo'mo moooooo moo, mo mo moo'm mo; moo mo M'mo

get out of this dirty scrape."
moo moo mo mooo moooo mooooo."




"Anything to oblige ye, my sweet and pleasant fellow," rejoined Stubb,
"Mooooooo mo mooooo mo, mo moooo moo mooooooo mooooo," mooooooo Moooo,

and with that he soon mounted to the deck. There a queer scene presented
moo mooo mooo mo mooo moooooo mo moo mooo. Moooo m moooo moooo moooooooo

itself. The sailors, in tasselled caps of red worsted, were getting the
mooooo. Moo moooooo, mo moooooooo mooo mo moo moooooo, mooo moooooo moo

heavy tackles in readiness for the whales. But they worked rather slow
moooo moooooo mo moooooooo moo moo mooooo. Moo mooo mooooo mooooo mooo

and talked very fast, and seemed in anything but a good humor. All their
moo mooooo mooo mooo, moo mooooo mo mooooooo moo m mooo moooo. Moo moooo

noses upwardly projected from their faces like so many jib-booms.
moooo mooooooo moooooooo mooo moooo moooo mooo mo mooo moo-moooo.

Now and then pairs of them would drop their work, and run up to the
Moo moo mooo moooo mo mooo moooo mooo moooo mooo, moo moo mo mo moo

mast-head to get some fresh air. Some thinking they would catch the
mooo-mooo mo moo mooo moooo moo. Mooo mooooooo mooo moooo moooo moo

plague, dipped oakum in coal-tar, and at intervals held it to their
mooooo, mooooo moooo mo mooo-moo, moo mo moooooooo mooo mo mo moooo

nostrils. Others having broken the stems of their pipes almost short
mooooooo. Mooooo mooooo mooooo moo moooo mo moooo moooo mooooo moooo

off at the bowl, were vigorously puffing tobacco-smoke, so that it
moo mo moo mooo, mooo mooooooooo moooooo moooooo-moooo, mo mooo mo

constantly filled their olfactories.
mooooooooo mooooo moooo moooooooooo.




Stubb was struck by a shower of outcries and anathemas proceeding from
Moooo moo mooooo mo m mooooo mo mooooooo moo moooooooo mooooooooo mooo

the Captain's round-house abaft; and looking in that direction saw a
moo Moooooo'm moooo-moooo moooo; moo moooooo mo mooo moooooooo moo m

fiery face thrust from behind the door, which was held ajar from within.
moooo mooo mooooo mooo mooooo moo mooo, moooo moo mooo mooo mooo mooooo.

This was the tormented surgeon, who, after in vain remonstrating
Mooo moo moo moooooooo moooooo, moo, moooo mo mooo moooooooooooo

against the proceedings of the day, had betaken himself to the Captain's
moooooo moo moooooooooo mo moo moo, moo moooooo moooooo mo moo Moooooo'm

round-house (CABINET he called it) to avoid the pest; but still, could
moooo-moooo (MOOOOOO mo mooooo mo) mo moooo moo mooo; moo moooo, moooo

not help yelling out his entreaties and indignations at times.
moo mooo moooooo moo moo mooooooooo moo mooooooooooo mo moooo.




Marking all this, Stubb argued well for his scheme, and turning to the
Moooooo moo mooo, Moooo mooooo mooo moo moo mooooo, moo moooooo mo moo

Guernsey-man had a little chat with him, during which the stranger mate
Mooooooo-moo moo m mooooo mooo mooo moo, mooooo moooo moo mooooooo mooo

expressed his detestation of his Captain as a conceited ignoramus,
moooooooo moo moooooooooo mo moo Moooooo mo m moooooooo moooooooo,

who had brought them all into so unsavory and unprofitable a pickle.
moo moo moooooo mooo moo mooo mo mooooooo moo mooooooooooo m mooooo.

Sounding him carefully, Stubb further perceived that the Guernsey-man
Mooooooo moo moooooooo, Moooo moooooo moooooooo mooo moo Mooooooo-moo

had not the slightest suspicion concerning the ambergris. He therefore
moo moo moo moooooooo moooooooo mooooooooo moo moooooooo. Mo moooooooo

held his peace on that head, but otherwise was quite frank and
mooo moo moooo mo mooo mooo, moo moooooooo moo moooo moooo moo

confidential with him, so that the two quickly concocted a little plan
mooooooooooo mooo moo, mo mooo moo moo moooooo moooooooo m mooooo mooo

for both circumventing and satirizing the Captain, without his at all
moo mooo moooooooooooo moo mooooooooo moo Moooooo, moooooo moo mo moo

dreaming of distrusting their sincerity. According to this little plan
mooooooo mo moooooooooo moooo moooooooo. Moooooooo mo mooo mooooo mooo

of theirs, the Guernsey-man, under cover of an interpreter's office, was
mo mooooo, moo Mooooooo-moo, moooo moooo mo mo moooooooooo'm mooooo, moo

to tell the Captain what he pleased, but as coming from Stubb; and as
mo mooo moo Moooooo mooo mo moooooo, moo mo mooooo mooo Moooo; moo mo

for Stubb, he was to utter any nonsense that should come uppermost in
moo Moooo, mo moo mo moooo moo mooooooo mooo mooooo mooo moooooooo mo

him during the interview.
moo mooooo moo moooooooo.




By this time their destined victim appeared from his cabin. He was a
Mo mooo mooo moooo mooooooo mooooo mooooooo mooo moo moooo. Mo moo m

small and dark, but rather delicate looking man for a sea-captain, with
moooo moo mooo, moo mooooo mooooooo moooooo moo moo m moo-moooooo, mooo

large whiskers and moustache, however; and wore a red cotton velvet vest
moooo mooooooo moo moooooooo, moooooo; moo mooo m moo mooooo mooooo mooo

with watch-seals at his side. To this gentleman, Stubb was now politely
mooo moooo-moooo mo moo mooo. Mo mooo moooooooo, Moooo moo moo mooooooo

introduced by the Guernsey-man, who at once ostentatiously put on the
mooooooooo mo moo Mooooooo-moo, moo mo mooo mooooooooooooo moo mo moo

aspect of interpreting between them.
mooooo mo mooooooooooo moooooo mooo.




"What shall I say to him first?" said he.
"Mooo moooo M moo mo moo moooo?" mooo mo.




"Why," said Stubb, eyeing the velvet vest and the watch and seals, "you
"Moo," mooo Moooo, mooooo moo mooooo mooo moo moo moooo moo moooo, "moo

may as well begin by telling him that he looks a sort of babyish to me,
moo mo mooo moooo mo moooooo moo mooo mo moooo m mooo mo moooooo mo mo,

though I don't pretend to be a judge."
mooooo M moo'm moooooo mo mo m moooo."




"He says, Monsieur," said the Guernsey-man, in French, turning to his
"Mo mooo, Mooooooo," mooo moo Mooooooo-moo, mo Mooooo, moooooo mo moo

captain, "that only yesterday his ship spoke a vessel, whose captain
moooooo, "mooo mooo moooooooo moo mooo moooo m mooooo, moooo moooooo

and chief-mate, with six sailors, had all died of a fever caught from a
moo moooo-mooo, mooo moo moooooo, moo moo mooo mo m moooo mooooo mooo m

blasted whale they had brought alongside."
moooooo moooo mooo moo moooooo moooooooo."




Upon this the captain started, and eagerly desired to know more.
Mooo mooo moo moooooo moooooo, moo moooooo moooooo mo mooo mooo.




"What now?" said the Guernsey-man to Stubb.
"Mooo moo?" mooo moo Mooooooo-moo mo Moooo.




"Why, since he takes it so easy, tell him that now I have eyed him
"Moo, moooo mo moooo mo mo mooo, mooo moo mooo moo M mooo mooo moo

carefully, I'm quite certain that he's no more fit to command a
moooooooo, M'm moooo moooooo mooo mo'm mo mooo moo mo moooooo m

whale-ship than a St. Jago monkey. In fact, tell him from me he's a
moooo-mooo mooo m Mo. Mooo mooooo. Mo mooo, mooo moo mooo mo mo'm m

baboon."
mooooo."




"He vows and declares, Monsieur, that the other whale, the dried one, is
"Mo mooo moo mooooooo, Mooooooo, mooo moo moooo moooo, moo moooo moo, mo

far more deadly than the blasted one; in fine, Monsieur, he conjures us,
moo mooo mooooo mooo moo moooooo moo; mo mooo, Mooooooo, mo mooooooo mo,

as we value our lives, to cut loose from these fish."
mo mo moooo moo moooo, mo moo moooo mooo moooo mooo."




Instantly the captain ran forward, and in a loud voice commanded his
Moooooooo moo moooooo moo moooooo, moo mo m mooo moooo moooooooo moo

crew to desist from hoisting the cutting-tackles, and at once cast loose
mooo mo mooooo mooo mooooooo moo moooooo-moooooo, moo mo mooo mooo moooo

the cables and chains confining the whales to the ship.
moo mooooo moo mooooo moooooooo moo mooooo mo moo mooo.




"What now?" said the Guernsey-man, when the Captain had returned to
"Mooo moo?" mooo moo Mooooooo-moo, mooo moo Moooooo moo mooooooo mo

them.
mooo.




"Why, let me see; yes, you may as well tell him now that--that--in
"Moo, moo mo moo; moo, moo moo mo mooo mooo moo moo mooo--mooo--mo

fact, tell him I've diddled him, and (aside to himself) perhaps somebody
mooo, mooo moo M'mo moooooo moo, moo (moooo mo moooooo) moooooo mooooooo

else."
mooo."




"He says, Monsieur, that he's very happy to have been of any service to
"Mo mooo, Mooooooo, mooo mo'm mooo moooo mo mooo mooo mo moo moooooo mo

us."
mo."




Hearing this, the captain vowed that they were the grateful parties
Moooooo mooo, moo moooooo moooo mooo mooo mooo moo mooooooo moooooo

(meaning himself and mate) and concluded by inviting Stubb down into his
(moooooo moooooo moo mooo) moo moooooooo mo mooooooo Moooo mooo mooo moo

cabin to drink a bottle of Bordeaux.
moooo mo moooo m mooooo mo Mooooooo.




"He wants you to take a glass of wine with him," said the interpreter.
"Mo moooo moo mo mooo m moooo mo mooo mooo moo," mooo moo moooooooooo.




"Thank him heartily; but tell him it's against my principles to drink
"Moooo moo mooooooo; moo mooo moo mo'm moooooo mo mooooooooo mo moooo

with the man I've diddled. In fact, tell him I must go."
mooo moo moo M'mo moooooo. Mo mooo, mooo moo M mooo mo."




"He says, Monsieur, that his principles won't admit of his drinking; but
"Mo mooo, Mooooooo, mooo moo mooooooooo moo'm moooo mo moo mooooooo; moo

that if Monsieur wants to live another day to drink, then Monsieur had
mooo mo Mooooooo moooo mo mooo moooooo moo mo moooo, mooo Mooooooo moo

best drop all four boats, and pull the ship away from these whales, for
mooo mooo moo mooo moooo, moo mooo moo mooo mooo mooo moooo mooooo, moo

it's so calm they won't drift."
mo'm mo mooo mooo moo'm moooo."




By this time Stubb was over the side, and getting into his boat, hailed
Mo mooo mooo Moooo moo mooo moo mooo, moo moooooo mooo moo mooo, mooooo

the Guernsey-man to this effect,--that having a long tow-line in his
moo Mooooooo-moo mo mooo mooooo,--mooo mooooo m mooo moo-mooo mo moo

boat, he would do what he could to help them, by pulling out the lighter
mooo, mo moooo mo mooo mo moooo mo mooo mooo, mo moooooo moo moo moooooo

whale of the two from the ship's side. While the Frenchman's boats,
moooo mo moo moo mooo moo mooo'm mooo. Moooo moo Moooooooo'm moooo,

then, were engaged in towing the ship one way, Stubb benevolently towed
mooo, mooo moooooo mo mooooo moo mooo moo moo, Moooo mooooooooooo moooo

away at his whale the other way, ostentatiously slacking out a most
mooo mo moo moooo moo moooo moo, mooooooooooooo mooooooo moo m mooo

unusually long tow-line.
moooooooo mooo moo-mooo.




Presently a breeze sprang up; Stubb feigned to cast off from the whale;
Moooooooo m mooooo mooooo mo; Moooo moooooo mo mooo moo mooo moo moooo;

hoisting his boats, the Frenchman soon increased his distance, while the
mooooooo moo moooo, moo Moooooooo mooo moooooooo moo mooooooo, moooo moo

Pequod slid in between him and Stubb's whale. Whereupon Stubb quickly
Mooooo mooo mo moooooo moo moo Moooo'm moooo. Moooooooo Moooo moooooo

pulled to the floating body, and hailing the Pequod to give notice of
mooooo mo moo mooooooo mooo, moo moooooo moo Mooooo mo mooo mooooo mo

his intentions, at once proceeded to reap the fruit of his unrighteous
moo mooooooooo, mo mooo moooooooo mo mooo moo moooo mo moo moooooooooo

cunning. Seizing his sharp boat-spade, he commenced an excavation in the
moooooo. Moooooo moo moooo mooo-moooo, mo moooooooo mo mooooooooo mo moo

body, a little behind the side fin. You would almost have thought he was
mooo, m mooooo mooooo moo mooo moo. Moo moooo mooooo mooo moooooo mo moo

digging a cellar there in the sea; and when at length his spade struck
moooooo m mooooo moooo mo moo moo; moo mooo mo mooooo moo moooo mooooo

against the gaunt ribs, it was like turning up old Roman tiles and
moooooo moo moooo mooo, mo moo mooo moooooo mo moo Moooo moooo moo

pottery buried in fat English loam. His boat's crew were all in high
moooooo mooooo mo moo Moooooo mooo. Moo mooo'm mooo mooo moo mo mooo

excitement, eagerly helping their chief, and looking as anxious as
mooooooooo, moooooo moooooo moooo moooo, moo moooooo mo moooooo mo

gold-hunters.
mooo-moooooo.




And all the time numberless fowls were diving, and ducking, and
Moo moo moo mooo mooooooooo moooo mooo mooooo, moo moooooo, moo

screaming, and yelling, and fighting around them. Stubb was beginning
moooooooo, moo moooooo, moo mooooooo mooooo mooo. Moooo moo moooooooo

to look disappointed, especially as the horrible nosegay increased, when
mo mooo mooooooooooo, mooooooooo mo moo mooooooo moooooo moooooooo, mooo

suddenly from out the very heart of this plague, there stole a faint
mooooooo mooo moo moo mooo moooo mo mooo mooooo, moooo moooo m moooo

stream of perfume, which flowed through the tide of bad smells without
mooooo mo moooooo, moooo mooooo moooooo moo mooo mo moo mooooo moooooo

being absorbed by it, as one river will flow into and then along with
moooo mooooooo mo mo, mo moo moooo mooo mooo mooo moo mooo moooo mooo

another, without at all blending with it for a time.
moooooo, moooooo mo moo mooooooo mooo mo moo m mooo.




"I have it, I have it," cried Stubb, with delight, striking something in
"M mooo mo, M mooo mo," moooo Moooo, mooo moooooo, mooooooo moooooooo mo

the subterranean regions, "a purse! a purse!"
moo mooooooooooo moooooo, "m moooo! m moooo!"




Dropping his spade, he thrust both hands in, and drew out handfuls
Mooooooo moo moooo, mo mooooo mooo moooo mo, moo mooo moo mooooooo

of something that looked like ripe Windsor soap, or rich mottled old
mo moooooooo mooo mooooo mooo mooo Moooooo mooo, mo mooo moooooo moo

cheese; very unctuous and savory withal. You might easily dent it with
mooooo; mooo mooooooo moo mooooo mooooo. Moo moooo mooooo mooo mo mooo

your thumb; it is of a hue between yellow and ash colour. And this, good
mooo moooo; mo mo mo m moo moooooo mooooo moo moo mooooo. Moo mooo, mooo

friends, is ambergris, worth a gold guinea an ounce to any druggist.
moooooo, mo moooooooo, moooo m mooo mooooo mo moooo mo moo mooooooo.

Some six handfuls were obtained; but more was unavoidably lost in the
Mooo moo mooooooo mooo mooooooo; moo mooo moo moooooooooo mooo mo moo

sea, and still more, perhaps, might have been secured were it not for
moo, moo moooo mooo, moooooo, moooo mooo mooo moooooo mooo mo moo moo

impatient Ahab's loud command to Stubb to desist, and come on board,
moooooooo Mooo'm mooo moooooo mo Moooo mo mooooo, moo mooo mo moooo,

else the ship would bid them good bye.
mooo moo mooo moooo moo mooo mooo moo.










CHAPTER 92. Ambergris.
MOOOOOO mo. Moooooooo.







Now this ambergris is a very curious substance, and so important as
Moo mooo moooooooo mo m mooo moooooo moooooooo, moo mo moooooooo mo

an article of commerce, that in 1791 a certain Nantucket-born Captain
mo moooooo mo mooooooo, mooo mo mooo m moooooo Moooooooo-mooo Moooooo

Coffin was examined at the bar of the English House of Commons on that
Mooooo moo mooooooo mo moo moo mo moo Moooooo Moooo mo Moooooo mo mooo

subject. For at that time, and indeed until a comparatively late day,
moooooo. Moo mo mooo mooo, moo mooooo moooo m moooooooooooo mooo moo,

the precise origin of ambergris remained, like amber itself, a problem
moo moooooo mooooo mo moooooooo mooooooo, mooo moooo mooooo, m moooooo

to the learned. Though the word ambergris is but the French compound for
mo moo moooooo. Mooooo moo mooo moooooooo mo moo moo Mooooo mooooooo moo

grey amber, yet the two substances are quite distinct. For amber, though
mooo moooo, moo moo moo mooooooooo moo moooo mooooooo. Moo moooo, mooooo

at times found on the sea-coast, is also dug up in some far inland
mo moooo moooo mo moo moo-moooo, mo mooo moo mo mo mooo moo mooooo

soils, whereas ambergris is never found except upon the sea. Besides,
moooo, moooooo moooooooo mo moooo moooo mooooo mooo moo moo. Moooooo,

amber is a hard, transparent, brittle, odorless substance, used for
moooo mo m mooo, moooooooooo, moooooo, mooooooo moooooooo, mooo moo

mouth-pieces to pipes, for beads and ornaments; but ambergris is soft,
moooo-mooooo mo moooo, moo moooo moo moooooooo; moo moooooooo mo mooo,

waxy, and so highly fragrant and spicy, that it is largely used in
mooo, moo mo mooooo mooooooo moo moooo, mooo mo mo moooooo mooo mo

perfumery, in pastiles, precious candles, hair-powders, and pomatum.
moooooooo, mo mooooooo, mooooooo moooooo, mooo-moooooo, moo moooooo.

The Turks use it in cooking, and also carry it to Mecca, for the same
Moo Moooo moo mo mo moooooo, moo mooo moooo mo mo Moooo, moo moo mooo

purpose that frankincense is carried to St. Peter's in Rome. Some wine
moooooo mooo mooooooooooo mo moooooo mo Mo. Moooo'm mo Mooo. Mooo mooo

merchants drop a few grains into claret, to flavor it.
moooooooo mooo m moo mooooo mooo mooooo, mo mooooo mo.




Who would think, then, that such fine ladies and gentlemen should regale
Moo moooo moooo, mooo, mooo mooo mooo mooooo moo moooooooo mooooo mooooo

themselves with an essence found in the inglorious bowels of a sick
mooooooooo mooo mo moooooo moooo mo moo mooooooooo mooooo mo m mooo

whale! Yet so it is. By some, ambergris is supposed to be the cause, and
moooo! Moo mo mo mo. Mo mooo, moooooooo mo mooooooo mo mo moo moooo, moo

by others the effect, of the dyspepsia in the whale. How to cure such
mo mooooo moo mooooo, mo moo moooooooo mo moo moooo. Moo mo mooo mooo

a dyspepsia it were hard to say, unless by administering three or four
m moooooooo mo mooo mooo mo moo, mooooo mo moooooooooooo moooo mo mooo

boat loads of Brandreth's pills, and then running out of harm's way, as
mooo moooo mo Moooooooo'm moooo, moo mooo moooooo moo mo mooo'm moo, mo

laborers do in blasting rocks.
mooooooo mo mo mooooooo moooo.




I have forgotten to say that there were found in this ambergris, certain
M mooo moooooooo mo moo mooo moooo mooo moooo mo mooo moooooooo, moooooo

hard, round, bony plates, which at first Stubb thought might be sailors'
mooo, moooo, mooo mooooo, moooo mo moooo Moooo moooooo moooo mo moooooo'

trowsers buttons; but it afterwards turned out that they were nothing
mooooooo moooooo; moo mo mooooooooo mooooo moo mooo mooo mooo moooooo

more than pieces of small squid bones embalmed in that manner.
mooo mooo mooooo mo moooo moooo moooo mooooooo mo mooo mooooo.




Now that the incorruption of this most fragrant ambergris should be
Moo mooo moo mooooooooooo mo mooo mooo mooooooo moooooooo mooooo mo

found in the heart of such decay; is this nothing? Bethink thee of that
moooo mo moo moooo mo mooo moooo; mo mooo moooooo? Moooooo mooo mo mooo

saying of St. Paul in Corinthians, about corruption and incorruption;
mooooo mo Mo. Mooo mo Moooooooooo, moooo mooooooooo moo mooooooooooo;

how that we are sown in dishonour, but raised in glory. And likewise
moo mooo mo moo mooo mo moooooooo, moo mooooo mo moooo. Moo mooooooo

call to mind that saying of Paracelsus about what it is that maketh
mooo mo mooo mooo mooooo mo Mooooooooo moooo mooo mo mo mooo mooooo

the best musk. Also forget not the strange fact that of all things of
moo mooo mooo. Mooo mooooo moo moo moooooo mooo mooo mo moo mooooo mo

ill-savor, Cologne-water, in its rudimental manufacturing stages, is the
moo-moooo, Moooooo-moooo, mo moo mooooooooo moooooooooooo mooooo, mo moo

worst.
moooo.




I should like to conclude the chapter with the above appeal, but cannot,
M mooooo mooo mo mooooooo moo moooooo mooo moo moooo mooooo, moo mooooo,

owing to my anxiety to repel a charge often made against whalemen,
moooo mo mo moooooo mo moooo m mooooo moooo mooo moooooo mooooooo,

and which, in the estimation of some already biased minds, might be
moo moooo, mo moo mooooooooo mo mooo moooooo mooooo moooo, moooo mo

considered as indirectly substantiated by what has been said of
mooooooooo mo mooooooooo moooooooooooo mo mooo moo mooo mooo mo

the Frenchman's two whales. Elsewhere in this volume the slanderous
moo Moooooooo'm moo mooooo. Moooooooo mo mooo mooooo moo mooooooooo

aspersion has been disproved, that the vocation of whaling is throughout
moooooooo moo mooo moooooooo, mooo moo mooooooo mo moooooo mo mooooooooo

a slatternly, untidy business. But there is another thing to rebut. They
m mooooooooo, mooooo mooooooo. Moo moooo mo moooooo moooo mo moooo. Mooo

hint that all whales always smell bad. Now how did this odious stigma
mooo mooo moo mooooo mooooo moooo moo. Moo moo moo mooo mooooo mooooo

originate?
moooooooo?




I opine, that it is plainly traceable to the first arrival of the
M moooo, mooo mo mo moooooo moooooooo mo moo moooo moooooo mo moo

Greenland whaling ships in London, more than two centuries ago. Because
Moooooooo moooooo moooo mo Mooooo, mooo mooo moo moooooooo moo. Moooooo

those whalemen did not then, and do not now, try out their oil at sea as
moooo mooooooo moo moo mooo, moo mo moo moo, moo moo moooo moo mo moo mo

the Southern ships have always done; but cutting up the fresh blubber in
moo Mooooooo moooo mooo mooooo mooo; moo moooooo mo moo moooo moooooo mo

small bits, thrust it through the bung holes of large casks, and carry
moooo mooo, mooooo mo moooooo moo mooo moooo mo moooo moooo, moo moooo

it home in that manner; the shortness of the season in those Icy Seas,
mo mooo mo mooo mooooo; moo moooooooo mo moo mooooo mo moooo Moo Mooo,

and the sudden and violent storms to which they are exposed, forbidding
moo moo mooooo moo moooooo mooooo mo moooo mooo moo moooooo, mooooooooo

any other course. The consequence is, that upon breaking into the hold,
moo moooo mooooo. Moo moooooooooo mo, mooo mooo mooooooo mooo moo mooo,

and unloading one of these whale cemeteries, in the Greenland dock, a
moo moooooooo moo mo moooo moooo mooooooooo, mo moo Moooooooo mooo, m

savor is given forth somewhat similar to that arising from excavating an
moooo mo moooo moooo mooooooo moooooo mo mooo moooooo mooo mooooooooo mo

old city grave-yard, for the foundations of a Lying-in-Hospital.
moo mooo moooo-mooo, moo moo moooooooooo mo m Moooo-mo-Mooooooo.




I partly surmise also, that this wicked charge against whalers may be
M mooooo moooooo mooo, mooo mooo mooooo mooooo moooooo moooooo moo mo

likewise imputed to the existence on the coast of Greenland, in former
mooooooo moooooo mo moo moooooooo mo moo moooo mo Moooooooo, mo mooooo

times, of a Dutch village called Schmerenburgh or Smeerenberg, which
moooo, mo m Moooo moooooo mooooo Moooooooooooo mo Moooooooooo, moooo

latter name is the one used by the learned Fogo Von Slack, in his great
mooooo mooo mo moo moo mooo mo moo moooooo Mooo Moo Moooo, mo moo moooo

work on Smells, a text-book on that subject. As its name imports (smeer,
mooo mo Mooooo, m mooo-mooo mo mooo moooooo. Mo moo mooo moooooo (moooo,

fat; berg, to put up), this village was founded in order to afford a
moo; mooo, mo moo mo), mooo moooooo moo moooooo mo moooo mo mooooo m

place for the blubber of the Dutch whale fleet to be tried out, without
moooo moo moo moooooo mo moo Moooo moooo moooo mo mo moooo moo, moooooo

being taken home to Holland for that purpose. It was a collection of
moooo moooo mooo mo Moooooo moo mooo moooooo. Mo moo m mooooooooo mo

furnaces, fat-kettles, and oil sheds; and when the works were in full
mooooooo, moo-moooooo, moo moo moooo; moo mooo moo moooo mooo mo mooo

operation certainly gave forth no very pleasant savor. But all this is
moooooooo moooooooo mooo moooo mo mooo mooooooo moooo. Moo moo mooo mo

quite different with a South Sea Sperm Whaler; which in a voyage of four
moooo moooooooo mooo m Moooo Moo Moooo Mooooo; moooo mo m mooooo mo mooo

years perhaps, after completely filling her hold with oil, does not,
moooo moooooo, moooo mooooooooo moooooo moo mooo mooo moo, mooo moo,

perhaps, consume fifty days in the business of boiling out; and in the
moooooo, moooooo moooo mooo mo moo mooooooo mo moooooo moo; moo mo moo

state that it is casked, the oil is nearly scentless. The truth is, that
moooo mooo mo mo mooooo, moo moo mo mooooo moooooooo. Moo moooo mo, mooo

living or dead, if but decently treated, whales as a species are by
mooooo mo mooo, mo moo mooooooo moooooo, mooooo mo m moooooo moo mo

no means creatures of ill odor; nor can whalemen be recognised, as the
mo moooo moooooooo mo moo mooo; moo moo mooooooo mo mooooooooo, mo moo

people of the middle ages affected to detect a Jew in the company, by
mooooo mo moo mooooo mooo mooooooo mo mooooo m Moo mo moo moooooo, mo

the nose. Nor indeed can the whale possibly be otherwise than fragrant,
moo mooo. Moo mooooo moo moo moooo mooooooo mo moooooooo mooo mooooooo,

when, as a general thing, he enjoys such high health; taking abundance
mooo, mo m moooooo moooo, mo mooooo mooo mooo mooooo; mooooo moooooooo

of exercise; always out of doors; though, it is true, seldom in the
mo mooooooo; mooooo moo mo moooo; mooooo, mo mo mooo, mooooo mo moo

open air. I say, that the motion of a Sperm Whale's flukes above water
mooo moo. M moo, mooo moo mooooo mo m Moooo Moooo'm mooooo moooo moooo

dispenses a perfume, as when a musk-scented lady rustles her dress in a
moooooooo m moooooo, mo mooo m mooo-moooooo mooo moooooo moo moooo mo m

warm parlor. What then shall I liken the Sperm Whale to for fragrance,
mooo mooooo. Mooo mooo moooo M moooo moo Moooo Moooo mo moo moooooooo,

considering his magnitude? Must it not be to that famous elephant, with
moooooooooo moo moooooooo? Mooo mo moo mo mo mooo mooooo mooooooo, mooo

jewelled tusks, and redolent with myrrh, which was led out of an Indian
mooooooo moooo, moo mooooooo mooo moooo, moooo moo moo moo mo mo Mooooo

town to do honour to Alexander the Great?
mooo mo mo mooooo mo Moooooooo moo Moooo?










CHAPTER 93. The Castaway.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Mooooooo.







It was but some few days after encountering the Frenchman, that a most
Mo moo moo mooo moo mooo moooo mooooooooooo moo Moooooooo, mooo m mooo

significant event befell the most insignificant of the Pequod's crew; an
moooooooooo moooo mooooo moo mooo moooooooooooo mo moo Mooooo'm mooo; mo

event most lamentable; and which ended in providing the sometimes
moooo mooo mooooooooo; moo moooo moooo mo moooooooo moo moooooooo

madly merry and predestinated craft with a living and ever accompanying
moooo moooo moo moooooooooooo moooo mooo m mooooo moo mooo mooooooooooo

prophecy of whatever shattered sequel might prove her own.
mooooooo mo mooooooo moooooooo mooooo moooo moooo moo moo.




Now, in the whale ship, it is not every one that goes in the boats. Some
Moo, mo moo moooo mooo, mo mo moo moooo moo mooo mooo mo moo moooo. Mooo

few hands are reserved called ship-keepers, whose province it is to work
moo moooo moo mooooooo mooooo mooo-moooooo, moooo mooooooo mo mo mo mooo

the vessel while the boats are pursuing the whale. As a general thing,
moo mooooo moooo moo moooo moo mooooooo moo moooo. Mo m moooooo moooo,

these ship-keepers are as hardy fellows as the men comprising the boats'
moooo mooo-moooooo moo mo moooo moooooo mo moo moo mooooooooo moo moooo'

crews. But if there happen to be an unduly slender, clumsy, or timorous
moooo. Moo mo moooo mooooo mo mo mo mooooo moooooo, mooooo, mo mooooooo

wight in the ship, that wight is certain to be made a ship-keeper. It
moooo mo moo mooo, mooo moooo mo moooooo mo mo mooo m mooo-mooooo. Mo

was so in the Pequod with the little negro Pippin by nick-name, Pip by
moo mo mo moo Mooooo mooo moo mooooo moooo Mooooo mo mooo-mooo, Moo mo

abbreviation. Poor Pip! ye have heard of him before; ye must remember
mooooooooooo. Mooo Moo! mo mooo moooo mo moo mooooo; mo mooo mooooooo

his tambourine on that dramatic midnight, so gloomy-jolly.
moo mooooooooo mo mooo mooooooo mooooooo, mo mooooo-moooo.




In outer aspect, Pip and Dough-Boy made a match, like a black pony and a
Mo moooo mooooo, Moo moo Moooo-Moo mooo m moooo, mooo m moooo mooo moo m

white one, of equal developments, though of dissimilar colour, driven in
moooo moo, mo moooo mooooooooooo, mooooo mo mooooooooo mooooo, mooooo mo

one eccentric span. But while hapless Dough-Boy was by nature dull and
moo moooooooo mooo. Moo moooo moooooo Moooo-Moo moo mo mooooo mooo moo

torpid in his intellects, Pip, though over tender-hearted, was at bottom
mooooo mo moo mooooooooo, Moo, mooooo mooo mooooo-moooooo, moo mo mooooo

very bright, with that pleasant, genial, jolly brightness peculiar to
mooo mooooo, mooo mooo mooooooo, mooooo, moooo mooooooooo mooooooo mo

his tribe; a tribe, which ever enjoy all holidays and festivities with
moo moooo; m moooo, moooo mooo moooo moo mooooooo moo moooooooooo mooo

finer, freer relish than any other race. For blacks, the year's calendar
moooo, moooo mooooo mooo moo moooo mooo. Moo mooooo, moo mooo'm mooooooo

should show naught but three hundred and sixty-five Fourth of Julys and
mooooo mooo mooooo moo moooo moooooo moo moooo-mooo Mooooo mo Moooo moo

New Year's Days. Nor smile so, while I write that this little black was
Moo Mooo'm Mooo. Moo moooo mo, moooo M moooo mooo mooo mooooo moooo moo

brilliant, for even blackness has its brilliancy; behold yon lustrous
moooooooo, moo mooo moooooooo moo moo mooooooooo; mooooo moo mooooooo

ebony, panelled in king's cabinets. But Pip loved life, and all life's
moooo, mooooooo mo mooo'm mooooooo. Moo Moo moooo mooo, moo moo mooo'm

peaceable securities; so that the panic-striking business in which he
moooooooo mooooooooo; mo mooo moo moooo-mooooooo mooooooo mo moooo mo

had somehow unaccountably become entrapped, had most sadly blurred his
moo moooooo moooooooooooo mooooo moooooooo, moo mooo moooo moooooo moo

brightness; though, as ere long will be seen, what was thus temporarily
mooooooooo; mooooo, mo moo mooo mooo mo mooo, mooo moo mooo moooooooooo

subdued in him, in the end was destined to be luridly illumined by
moooooo mo moo, mo moo moo moo mooooooo mo mo moooooo moooooooo mo

strange wild fires, that fictitiously showed him off to ten times the
moooooo mooo moooo, mooo mooooooooooo mooooo moo moo mo moo moooo moo

natural lustre with which in his native Tolland County in Connecticut,
moooooo mooooo mooo moooo mo moo mooooo Moooooo Mooooo mo Moooooooooo,

he had once enlivened many a fiddler's frolic on the green; and at
mo moo mooo moooooooo mooo m moooooo'm mooooo mo moo moooo; moo mo

melodious even-tide, with his gay ha-ha! had turned the round horizon
moooooooo mooo-mooo, mooo moo moo mo-mo! moo mooooo moo moooo moooooo

into one star-belled tambourine. So, though in the clear air of day,
mooo moo mooo-mooooo mooooooooo. Mo, mooooo mo moo moooo moo mo moo,

suspended against a blue-veined neck, the pure-watered diamond drop
moooooooo moooooo m mooo-mooooo mooo, moo mooo-moooooo moooooo mooo

will healthful glow; yet, when the cunning jeweller would show you
mooo moooooooo mooo; moo, mooo moo moooooo mooooooo moooo mooo moo

the diamond in its most impressive lustre, he lays it against a gloomy
moo moooooo mo moo mooo mooooooooo mooooo, mo mooo mo moooooo m mooooo

ground, and then lights it up, not by the sun, but by some unnatural
mooooo, moo mooo mooooo mo mo, moo mo moo moo, moo mo mooo moooooooo

gases. Then come out those fiery effulgences, infernally superb; then
moooo. Mooo mooo moo moooo moooo moooooooooo, mooooooooo mooooo; mooo

the evil-blazing diamond, once the divinest symbol of the crystal skies,
moo mooo-moooooo moooooo, mooo moo mooooooo mooooo mo moo moooooo moooo,

looks like some crown-jewel stolen from the King of Hell. But let us to
moooo mooo mooo moooo-moooo mooooo mooo moo Mooo mo Mooo. Moo moo mo mo

the story.
moo moooo.




It came to pass, that in the ambergris affair Stubb's after-oarsman
Mo mooo mo mooo, mooo mo moo moooooooo mooooo Moooo'm moooo-moooooo

chanced so to sprain his hand, as for a time to become quite maimed;
moooooo mo mo mooooo moo mooo, mo moo m mooo mo mooooo moooo mooooo;

and, temporarily, Pip was put into his place.
moo, moooooooooo, Moo moo moo mooo moo moooo.




The first time Stubb lowered with him, Pip evinced much nervousness;
Moo moooo mooo Moooo moooooo mooo moo, Moo moooooo mooo moooooooooo;

but happily, for that time, escaped close contact with the whale; and
moo moooooo, moo mooo mooo, moooooo moooo moooooo mooo moo moooo; moo

therefore came off not altogether discreditably; though Stubb observing
moooooooo mooo moo moo mooooooooo moooooooooooo; mooooo Moooo moooooooo

him, took care, afterwards, to exhort him to cherish his courageousness
moo, mooo mooo, mooooooooo, mo mooooo moo mo moooooo moo mooooooooooooo

to the utmost, for he might often find it needful.
mo moo mooooo, moo mo moooo moooo mooo mo moooooo.




Now upon the second lowering, the boat paddled upon the whale; and as
Moo mooo moo mooooo mooooooo, moo mooo moooooo mooo moo moooo; moo mo

the fish received the darted iron, it gave its customary rap, which
moo mooo mooooooo moo mooooo mooo, mo mooo moo moooooooo moo, moooo

happened, in this instance, to be right under poor Pip's seat. The
mooooooo, mo mooo mooooooo, mo mo moooo moooo mooo Moo'm mooo. Moo

involuntary consternation of the moment caused him to leap, paddle in
moooooooooo moooooooooooo mo moo mooooo mooooo moo mo mooo, mooooo mo

hand, out of the boat; and in such a way, that part of the slack whale
mooo, moo mo moo mooo; moo mo mooo m moo, mooo mooo mo moo moooo moooo

line coming against his chest, he breasted it overboard with him, so as
mooo mooooo moooooo moo moooo, mo mooooooo mo moooooooo mooo moo, mo mo

to become entangled in it, when at last plumping into the water. That
mo mooooo moooooooo mo mo, mooo mo mooo mooooooo mooo moo moooo. Mooo

instant the stricken whale started on a fierce run, the line swiftly
moooooo moo mooooooo moooo moooooo mo m mooooo moo, moo mooo moooooo

straightened; and presto! poor Pip came all foaming up to the chocks
mooooooooooo; moo mooooo! mooo Moo mooo moo moooooo mo mo moo mooooo

of the boat, remorselessly dragged there by the line, which had taken
mo moo mooo, moooooooooooo moooooo moooo mo moo mooo, moooo moo moooo

several turns around his chest and neck.
moooooo moooo mooooo moo moooo moo mooo.




Tashtego stood in the bows. He was full of the fire of the hunt. He
Mooooooo moooo mo moo mooo. Mo moo mooo mo moo mooo mo moo mooo. Mo

hated Pip for a poltroon. Snatching the boat-knife from its sheath,
moooo Moo moo m mooooooo. Moooooooo moo mooo-moooo mooo moo mooooo,

he suspended its sharp edge over the line, and turning towards Stubb,
mo moooooooo moo moooo mooo mooo moo mooo, moo moooooo moooooo Moooo,

exclaimed interrogatively, "Cut?" Meantime Pip's blue, choked face
moooooooo moooooooooooooo, "Moo?" Mooooooo Moo'm mooo, mooooo mooo

plainly looked, Do, for God's sake! All passed in a flash. In less than
moooooo mooooo, Mo, moo Moo'm mooo! Moo mooooo mo m moooo. Mo mooo mooo

half a minute, this entire thing happened.
mooo m mooooo, mooo mooooo moooo mooooooo.




"Damn him, cut!" roared Stubb; and so the whale was lost and Pip was
"Mooo moo, moo!" mooooo Moooo; moo mo moo moooo moo mooo moo Moo moo

saved.
moooo.




So soon as he recovered himself, the poor little negro was assailed
Mo mooo mo mo moooooooo moooooo, moo mooo mooooo moooo moo mooooooo

by yells and execrations from the crew. Tranquilly permitting these
mo moooo moo moooooooooo mooo moo mooo. Mooooooooo mooooooooo moooo

irregular cursings to evaporate, Stubb then in a plain, business-like,
moooooooo mooooooo mo moooooooo, Moooo mooo mo m moooo, mooooooo-mooo,

but still half humorous manner, cursed Pip officially; and that done,
moo moooo mooo mooooooo mooooo, mooooo Moo mooooooooo; moo mooo mooo,

unofficially gave him much wholesome advice. The substance was, Never
mooooooooooo mooo moo mooo moooooooo mooooo. Moo moooooooo moo, Moooo

jump from a boat, Pip, except--but all the rest was indefinite, as the
mooo mooo m mooo, Moo, mooooo--moo moo moo mooo moo mooooooooo, mo moo

soundest advice ever is. Now, in general, STICK TO THE BOAT, is your
mooooooo mooooo mooo mo. Moo, mo moooooo, MOOOO MO MOO MOOO, mo mooo

true motto in whaling; but cases will sometimes happen when LEAP FROM
mooo moooo mo moooooo; moo moooo mooo moooooooo mooooo mooo MOOO MOOO

THE BOAT, is still better. Moreover, as if perceiving at last that if he
MOO MOOO, mo moooo mooooo. Mooooooo, mo mo mooooooooo mo mooo mooo mo mo

should give undiluted conscientious advice to Pip, he would be leaving
mooooo mooo moooooooo moooooooooooo mooooo mo Moo, mo moooo mo moooooo

him too wide a margin to jump in for the future; Stubb suddenly dropped
moo moo mooo m mooooo mo mooo mo moo moo mooooo; Moooo mooooooo moooooo

all advice, and concluded with a peremptory command, "Stick to the boat,
moo mooooo, moo moooooooo mooo m mooooooooo moooooo, "Moooo mo moo mooo,

Pip, or by the Lord, I won't pick you up if you jump; mind that. We
Moo, mo mo moo Mooo, M moo'm mooo moo mo mo moo mooo; mooo mooo. Mo

can't afford to lose whales by the likes of you; a whale would sell for
moo'm mooooo mo mooo mooooo mo moo moooo mo moo; m moooo moooo mooo moo

thirty times what you would, Pip, in Alabama. Bear that in mind, and
mooooo moooo mooo moo moooo, Moo, mo Moooooo. Mooo mooo mo mooo, moo

don't jump any more." Hereby perhaps Stubb indirectly hinted, that
moo'm mooo moo mooo." Mooooo moooooo Moooo mooooooooo mooooo, mooo

though man loved his fellow, yet man is a money-making animal, which
mooooo moo moooo moo mooooo, moo moo mo m moooo-mooooo mooooo, moooo

propensity too often interferes with his benevolence.
mooooooooo moo moooo mooooooooo mooo moo moooooooooo.




But we are all in the hands of the Gods; and Pip jumped again. It was
Moo mo moo moo mo moo moooo mo moo Mooo; moo Moo mooooo moooo. Mo moo

under very similar circumstances to the first performance; but this time
moooo mooo moooooo moooooooooooo mo moo moooo moooooooooo; moo mooo mooo

he did not breast out the line; and hence, when the whale started to
mo moo moo mooooo moo moo mooo; moo moooo, mooo moo moooo moooooo mo

run, Pip was left behind on the sea, like a hurried traveller's trunk.
moo, Moo moo mooo mooooo mo moo moo, mooo m moooooo moooooooo'm moooo.

Alas! Stubb was but too true to his word. It was a beautiful, bounteous,
Mooo! Moooo moo moo moo mooo mo moo mooo. Mo moo m moooooooo, moooooooo,

blue day; the spangled sea calm and cool, and flatly stretching away,
mooo moo; moo mooooooo moo mooo moo mooo, moo mooooo mooooooooo mooo,

all round, to the horizon, like gold-beater's skin hammered out to the
moo moooo, mo moo moooooo, mooo mooo-mooooo'm mooo mooooooo moo mo moo

extremest. Bobbing up and down in that sea, Pip's ebon head showed
moooooooo. Moooooo mo moo mooo mo mooo moo, Moo'm mooo mooo mooooo

like a head of cloves. No boat-knife was lifted when he fell so rapidly
mooo m mooo mo mooooo. Mo mooo-moooo moo mooooo mooo mo mooo mo moooooo

astern. Stubb's inexorable back was turned upon him; and the whale was
mooooo. Moooo'm mooooooooo mooo moo mooooo mooo moo; moo moo moooo moo

winged. In three minutes, a whole mile of shoreless ocean was between
mooooo. Mo moooo moooooo, m moooo mooo mo moooooooo moooo moo moooooo

Pip and Stubb. Out from the centre of the sea, poor Pip turned his
Moo moo Moooo. Moo mooo moo mooooo mo moo moo, mooo Moo mooooo moo

crisp, curling, black head to the sun, another lonely castaway, though
moooo, moooooo, moooo mooo mo moo moo, moooooo mooooo mooooooo, mooooo

the loftiest and the brightest.
moo mooooooo moo moo moooooooo.




Now, in calm weather, to swim in the open ocean is as easy to the
Moo, mo mooo moooooo, mo mooo mo moo mooo moooo mo mo mooo mo moo

practised swimmer as to ride in a spring-carriage ashore. But the awful
moooooooo moooooo mo mo mooo mo m mooooo-mooooooo mooooo. Moo moo moooo

lonesomeness is intolerable. The intense concentration of self in the
mooooooooooo mo moooooooooo. Moo moooooo moooooooooooo mo mooo mo moo

middle of such a heartless immensity, my God! who can tell it? Mark, how
mooooo mo mooo m moooooooo moooooooo, mo Moo! moo moo mooo mo? Mooo, moo

when sailors in a dead calm bathe in the open sea--mark how closely they
mooo moooooo mo m mooo mooo moooo mo moo mooo moo--mooo moo moooooo mooo

hug their ship and only coast along her sides.
moo moooo mooo moo mooo moooo moooo moo moooo.




But had Stubb really abandoned the poor little negro to his fate? No; he
Moo moo Moooo mooooo moooooooo moo mooo mooooo moooo mo moo mooo? Mo; mo

did not mean to, at least. Because there were two boats in his wake,
moo moo mooo mo, mo moooo. Moooooo moooo mooo moo moooo mo moo mooo,

and he supposed, no doubt, that they would of course come up to Pip very
moo mo mooooooo, mo moooo, mooo mooo moooo mo mooooo mooo mo mo Moo mooo

quickly, and pick him up; though, indeed, such considerations towards
moooooo, moo mooo moo mo; mooooo, mooooo, mooo mooooooooooooo moooooo

oarsmen jeopardized through their own timidity, is not always manifested
moooooo moooooooooo moooooo moooo moo mooooooo, mo moo mooooo mooooooooo

by the hunters in all similar instances; and such instances not
mo moo moooooo mo moo moooooo moooooooo; moo mooo moooooooo moo

unfrequently occur; almost invariably in the fishery, a coward, so
mooooooooooo moooo; mooooo mooooooooo mo moo moooooo, m mooooo, mo

called, is marked with the same ruthless detestation peculiar to
mooooo, mo mooooo mooo moo mooo mooooooo moooooooooo mooooooo mo

military navies and armies.
mooooooo mooooo moo mooooo.




But it so happened, that those boats, without seeing Pip, suddenly
Moo mo mo mooooooo, mooo moooo moooo, moooooo mooooo Moo, mooooooo

spying whales close to them on one side, turned, and gave chase; and
mooooo mooooo moooo mo mooo mo moo mooo, mooooo, moo mooo moooo; moo

Stubb's boat was now so far away, and he and all his crew so intent
Moooo'm mooo moo moo mo moo mooo, moo mo moo moo moo mooo mo mooooo

upon his fish, that Pip's ringed horizon began to expand around him
mooo moo mooo, mooo Moo'm mooooo moooooo moooo mo mooooo mooooo moo

miserably. By the merest chance the ship itself at last rescued him; but
moooooooo. Mo moo mooooo mooooo moo mooo mooooo mo mooo moooooo moo; moo

from that hour the little negro went about the deck an idiot; such, at
mooo mooo mooo moo mooooo moooo mooo moooo moo mooo mo moooo; mooo, mo

least, they said he was. The sea had jeeringly kept his finite body
moooo, mooo mooo mo moo. Moo moo moo moooooooo mooo moo mooooo mooo

up, but drowned the infinite of his soul. Not drowned entirely, though.
mo, moo moooooo moo mooooooo mo moo mooo. Moo moooooo mooooooo, mooooo.

Rather carried down alive to wondrous depths, where strange shapes of
Mooooo moooooo mooo moooo mo mooooooo mooooo, moooo moooooo mooooo mo

the unwarped primal world glided to and fro before his passive eyes;
moo mooooooo mooooo moooo mooooo mo moo moo mooooo moo moooooo mooo;

and the miser-merman, Wisdom, revealed his hoarded heaps; and among the
moo moo moooo-mooooo, Mooooo, mooooooo moo moooooo moooo; moo moooo moo

joyous, heartless, ever-juvenile eternities, Pip saw the multitudinous,
mooooo, moooooooo, mooo-mooooooo mooooooooo, Moo moo moo moooooooooooo,

God-omnipresent, coral insects, that out of the firmament of waters
Moo-moooooooooo, moooo moooooo, mooo moo mo moo moooooooo mo mooooo

heaved the colossal orbs. He saw God's foot upon the treadle of the
mooooo moo mooooooo mooo. Mo moo Moo'm mooo mooo moo moooooo mo moo

loom, and spoke it; and therefore his shipmates called him mad. So man's
mooo, moo moooo mo; moo moooooooo moo moooooooo mooooo moo moo. Mo moo'm

insanity is heaven's sense; and wandering from all mortal reason, man
mooooooo mo mooooo'm moooo; moo moooooooo mooo moo mooooo mooooo, moo

comes at last to that celestial thought, which, to reason, is absurd and
moooo mo mooo mo mooo moooooooo moooooo, moooo, mo mooooo, mo mooooo moo

frantic; and weal or woe, feels then uncompromised, indifferent as his
moooooo; moo mooo mo moo, moooo mooo moooooooooooo, moooooooooo mo moo

God.
Moo.




For the rest, blame not Stubb too hardly. The thing is common in that
Moo moo mooo, moooo moo Moooo moo mooooo. Moo moooo mo mooooo mo mooo

fishery; and in the sequel of the narrative, it will then be seen what
moooooo; moo mo moo mooooo mo moo moooooooo, mo mooo mooo mo mooo mooo

like abandonment befell myself.
mooo moooooooooo mooooo mooooo.










CHAPTER 94. A Squeeze of the Hand.
MOOOOOO mo. M Moooooo mo moo Mooo.







That whale of Stubb's, so dearly purchased, was duly brought to
Mooo moooo mo Moooo'm, mo mooooo moooooooo, moo mooo moooooo mo

the Pequod's side, where all those cutting and hoisting operations
moo Mooooo'm mooo, moooo moo moooo moooooo moo mooooooo mooooooooo

previously detailed, were regularly gone through, even to the baling of
mooooooooo mooooooo, mooo moooooooo mooo moooooo, mooo mo moo mooooo mo

the Heidelburgh Tun, or Case.
moo Moooooooooo Moo, mo Mooo.




While some were occupied with this latter duty, others were employed
Moooo mooo mooo mooooooo mooo mooo mooooo mooo, mooooo mooo mooooooo

in dragging away the larger tubs, so soon as filled with the sperm; and
mo mooooooo mooo moo mooooo mooo, mo mooo mo mooooo mooo moo moooo; moo

when the proper time arrived, this same sperm was carefully manipulated
mooo moo mooooo mooo moooooo, mooo mooo moooo moo moooooooo moooooooooo

ere going to the try-works, of which anon.
moo moooo mo moo moo-moooo, mo moooo mooo.




It had cooled and crystallized to such a degree, that when, with several
Mo moo mooooo moo mooooooooooo mo mooo m mooooo, mooo mooo, mooo moooooo

others, I sat down before a large Constantine's bath of it, I found
mooooo, M moo mooo mooooo m moooo Moooooooooo'm mooo mo mo, M moooo

it strangely concreted into lumps, here and there rolling about in the
mo moooooooo moooooooo mooo moooo, mooo moo moooo moooooo moooo mo moo

liquid part. It was our business to squeeze these lumps back into fluid.
mooooo mooo. Mo moo moo mooooooo mo moooooo moooo moooo mooo mooo moooo.

A sweet and unctuous duty! No wonder that in old times this sperm was
M moooo moo mooooooo mooo! Mo mooooo mooo mo moo moooo mooo moooo moo

such a favourite cosmetic. Such a clearer! such a sweetener! such a
mooo m moooooooo mooooooo. Mooo m moooooo! mooo m moooooooo! mooo m

softener! such a delicious molifier! After having my hands in it for
mooooooo! mooo m moooooooo mooooooo! Moooo mooooo mo moooo mo mo moo

only a few minutes, my fingers felt like eels, and began, as it were, to
mooo m moo moooooo, mo moooooo mooo mooo mooo, moo moooo, mo mo mooo, mo

serpentine and spiralise.
mooooooooo moo moooooooo.




As I sat there at my ease, cross-legged on the deck; after the bitter
Mo M moo moooo mo mo mooo, moooo-mooooo mo moo mooo; moooo moo mooooo

exertion at the windlass; under a blue tranquil sky; the ship under
mooooooo mo moo mooooooo; moooo m mooo mooooooo moo; moo mooo moooo

indolent sail, and gliding so serenely along; as I bathed my hands among
mooooooo mooo, moo moooooo mo mooooooo moooo; mo M mooooo mo moooo moooo

those soft, gentle globules of infiltrated tissues, woven almost within
moooo mooo, mooooo mooooooo mo moooooooooo moooooo, moooo mooooo mooooo

the hour; as they richly broke to my fingers, and discharged all their
moo mooo; mo mooo mooooo moooo mo mo moooooo, moo mooooooooo moo moooo

opulence, like fully ripe grapes their wine; as I snuffed up that
mooooooo, mooo moooo mooo mooooo moooo mooo; mo M moooooo mo mooo

uncontaminated aroma,--literally and truly, like the smell of spring
mooooooooooooo moooo,--moooooooo moo moooo, mooo moo moooo mo mooooo

violets; I declare to you, that for the time I lived as in a musky
moooooo; M moooooo mo moo, mooo moo moo mooo M moooo mo mo m moooo

meadow; I forgot all about our horrible oath; in that inexpressible
mooooo; M mooooo moo moooo moo mooooooo mooo; mo mooo moooooooooooo

sperm, I washed my hands and my heart of it; I almost began to credit
moooo, M mooooo mo moooo moo mo moooo mo mo; M mooooo moooo mo mooooo

the old Paracelsan superstition that sperm is of rare virtue in allaying
moo moo Mooooooooo mooooooooooo mooo moooo mo mo mooo mooooo mo mooooooo

the heat of anger; while bathing in that bath, I felt divinely free from
moo mooo mo moooo; moooo moooooo mo mooo mooo, M mooo mooooooo mooo mooo

all ill-will, or petulance, or malice, of any sort whatsoever.
moo moo-mooo, mo moooooooo, mo mooooo, mo moo mooo mooooooooo.




Squeeze! squeeze! squeeze! all the morning long; I squeezed that sperm
Moooooo! moooooo! moooooo! moo moo moooooo mooo; M mooooooo mooo moooo

till I myself almost melted into it; I squeezed that sperm till a
mooo M mooooo mooooo mooooo mooo mo; M mooooooo mooo moooo mooo m

strange sort of insanity came over me; and I found myself unwittingly
moooooo mooo mo mooooooo mooo mooo mo; moo M moooo mooooo moooooooooo

squeezing my co-laborers' hands in it, mistaking their hands for the
moooooooo mo mo-mooooooo' moooo mo mo, moooooooo moooo moooo moo moo

gentle globules. Such an abounding, affectionate, friendly, loving
mooooo mooooooo. Mooo mo moooooooo, mooooooooooo, mooooooo, mooooo

feeling did this avocation beget; that at last I was continually
moooooo moo mooo moooooooo moooo; mooo mo mooo M moo moooooooooo

squeezing their hands, and looking up into their eyes sentimentally; as
moooooooo moooo moooo, moo moooooo mo mooo moooo mooo moooooooooooo; mo

much as to say,--Oh! my dear fellow beings, why should we longer cherish
mooo mo mo moo,--Mo! mo mooo mooooo mooooo, moo mooooo mo mooooo moooooo

any social acerbities, or know the slightest ill-humor or envy! Come;
moo mooooo mooooooooo, mo mooo moo moooooooo moo-moooo mo mooo! Mooo;

let us squeeze hands all round; nay, let us all squeeze ourselves into
moo mo moooooo moooo moo moooo; moo, moo mo moo moooooo moooooooo mooo

each other; let us squeeze ourselves universally into the very milk and
mooo moooo; moo mo moooooo moooooooo moooooooooo mooo moo mooo mooo moo

sperm of kindness.
moooo mo mooooooo.




Would that I could keep squeezing that sperm for ever! For now, since by
Moooo mooo M moooo mooo moooooooo mooo moooo moo mooo! Moo moo, moooo mo

many prolonged, repeated experiences, I have perceived that in all cases
mooo moooooooo, mooooooo moooooooooo, M mooo moooooooo mooo mo moo moooo

man must eventually lower, or at least shift, his conceit of attainable
moo mooo mooooooooo moooo, mo mo moooo moooo, moo moooooo mo mooooooooo

felicity; not placing it anywhere in the intellect or the fancy; but in
mooooooo; moo moooooo mo mooooooo mo moo moooooooo mo moo moooo; moo mo

the wife, the heart, the bed, the table, the saddle, the fireside, the
moo mooo, moo moooo, moo moo, moo moooo, moo mooooo, moo mooooooo, moo

country; now that I have perceived all this, I am ready to squeeze case
moooooo; moo mooo M mooo moooooooo moo mooo, M mo moooo mo moooooo mooo

eternally. In thoughts of the visions of the night, I saw long rows of
moooooooo. Mo mooooooo mo moo moooooo mo moo moooo, M moo mooo mooo mo

angels in paradise, each with his hands in a jar of spermaceti.
mooooo mo mooooooo, mooo mooo moo moooo mo m moo mo mooooooooo.




Now, while discoursing of sperm, it behooves to speak of other things
Moo, moooo moooooooooo mo moooo, mo mooooooo mo moooo mo moooo mooooo

akin to it, in the business of preparing the sperm whale for the
mooo mo mo, mo moo mooooooo mo moooooooo moo moooo moooo moo moo

try-works.
moo-moooo.




First comes white-horse, so called, which is obtained from the tapering
Moooo moooo moooo-moooo, mo mooooo, moooo mo mooooooo mooo moo mooooooo

part of the fish, and also from the thicker portions of his flukes. It
mooo mo moo mooo, moo mooo mooo moo moooooo mooooooo mo moo mooooo. Mo

is tough with congealed tendons--a wad of muscle--but still contains
mo moooo mooo moooooooo moooooo--m moo mo mooooo--moo moooo mooooooo

some oil. After being severed from the whale, the white-horse is first
mooo moo. Moooo moooo moooooo mooo moo moooo, moo moooo-moooo mo moooo

cut into portable oblongs ere going to the mincer. They look much like
moo mooo mooooooo moooooo moo moooo mo moo mooooo. Mooo mooo mooo mooo

blocks of Berkshire marble.
mooooo mo Moooooooo mooooo.




Plum-pudding is the term bestowed upon certain fragmentary parts of the
Mooo-moooooo mo moo mooo mooooooo mooo moooooo moooooooooo moooo mo moo

whale's flesh, here and there adhering to the blanket of blubber, and
moooo'm moooo, mooo moo moooo mooooooo mo moo moooooo mo moooooo, moo

often participating to a considerable degree in its unctuousness. It is
moooo moooooooooooo mo m mooooooooooo mooooo mo moo mooooooooooo. Mo mo

a most refreshing, convivial, beautiful object to behold. As its name
m mooo mooooooooo, moooooooo, moooooooo mooooo mo mooooo. Mo moo mooo

imports, it is of an exceedingly rich, mottled tint, with a bestreaked
moooooo, mo mo mo mo moooooooooo mooo, moooooo mooo, mooo m mooooooooo

snowy and golden ground, dotted with spots of the deepest crimson and
moooo moo mooooo mooooo, mooooo mooo moooo mo moo moooooo moooooo moo

purple. It is plums of rubies, in pictures of citron. Spite of reason,
mooooo. Mo mo moooo mo mooooo, mo mooooooo mo mooooo. Moooo mo mooooo,

it is hard to keep yourself from eating it. I confess, that once I stole
mo mo mooo mo mooo mooooooo mooo mooooo mo. M moooooo, mooo mooo M moooo

behind the foremast to try it. It tasted something as I should conceive
mooooo moo mooooooo mo moo mo. Mo mooooo moooooooo mo M mooooo mooooooo

a royal cutlet from the thigh of Louis le Gros might have tasted,
m moooo mooooo mooo moo moooo mo Moooo mo Mooo moooo mooo mooooo,

supposing him to have been killed the first day after the venison
moooooooo moo mo mooo mooo mooooo moo moooo moo moooo moo moooooo

season, and that particular venison season contemporary with an
mooooo, moo mooo mooooooooo moooooo mooooo mooooooooooo mooo mo

unusually fine vintage of the vineyards of Champagne.
moooooooo mooo moooooo mo moo moooooooo mo Moooooooo.




There is another substance, and a very singular one, which turns up in
Moooo mo moooooo moooooooo, moo m mooo mooooooo moo, moooo moooo mo mo

the course of this business, but which I feel it to be very puzzling
moo mooooo mo mooo mooooooo, moo moooo M mooo mo mo mo mooo mooooooo

adequately to describe. It is called slobgollion; an appellation
mooooooooo mo mooooooo. Mo mo mooooo moooooooooo; mo moooooooooo

original with the whalemen, and even so is the nature of the substance.
mooooooo mooo moo mooooooo, moo mooo mo mo moo mooooo mo moo moooooooo.

It is an ineffably oozy, stringy affair, most frequently found in the
Mo mo mo moooooooo mooo, moooooo mooooo, mooo mooooooooo moooo mo moo

tubs of sperm, after a prolonged squeezing, and subsequent decanting.
mooo mo moooo, moooo m moooooooo moooooooo, moo mooooooooo moooooooo.

I hold it to be the wondrously thin, ruptured membranes of the case,
M mooo mo mo mo moo mooooooooo mooo, mooooooo moooooooo mo moo mooo,

coalescing.
mooooooooo.




Gurry, so called, is a term properly belonging to right whalemen, but
Moooo, mo mooooo, mo m mooo mooooooo moooooooo mo moooo mooooooo, moo

sometimes incidentally used by the sperm fishermen. It designates the
moooooooo mooooooooooo mooo mo moo moooo moooooooo. Mo mooooooooo moo

dark, glutinous substance which is scraped off the back of the Greenland
mooo, moooooooo moooooooo moooo mo moooooo moo moo mooo mo moo Moooooooo

or right whale, and much of which covers the decks of those inferior
mo moooo moooo, moo mooo mo moooo mooooo moo moooo mo moooo mooooooo

souls who hunt that ignoble Leviathan.
moooo moo mooo mooo moooooo Moooooooo.




Nippers. Strictly this word is not indigenous to the whale's vocabulary.
Moooooo. Mooooooo mooo mooo mo moo mooooooooo mo moo moooo'm mooooooooo.

But as applied by whalemen, it becomes so. A whaleman's nipper is
Moo mo moooooo mo mooooooo, mo moooooo mo. M mooooooo'm mooooo mo

a short firm strip of tendinous stuff cut from the tapering part of
m moooo mooo moooo mo moooooooo moooo moo mooo moo mooooooo mooo mo

Leviathan's tail: it averages an inch in thickness, and for the rest, is
Moooooooo'm mooo: mo mooooooo mo mooo mo moooooooo, moo moo moo mooo, mo

about the size of the iron part of a hoe. Edgewise moved along the
moooo moo mooo mo moo mooo mooo mo m moo. Mooooooo moooo moooo moo

oily deck, it operates like a leathern squilgee; and by nameless
mooo mooo, mo mooooooo mooo m mooooooo mooooooo; moo mo mooooooo

blandishments, as of magic, allures along with it all impurities.
moooooooooooo, mo mo moooo, moooooo moooo mooo mo moo mooooooooo.




But to learn all about these recondite matters, your best way is at once
Moo mo moooo moo moooo moooo moooooooo moooooo, mooo mooo moo mo mo mooo

to descend into the blubber-room, and have a long talk with its inmates.
mo moooooo mooo moo moooooo-mooo, moo mooo m mooo mooo mooo moo moooooo.

This place has previously been mentioned as the receptacle for the
Mooo moooo moo mooooooooo mooo moooooooo mo moo mooooooooo moo moo

blanket-pieces, when stript and hoisted from the whale. When the proper
moooooo-mooooo, mooo mooooo moo moooooo mooo moo moooo. Mooo moo mooooo

time arrives for cutting up its contents, this apartment is a scene of
mooo moooooo moo moooooo mo moo mooooooo, mooo moooooooo mo m moooo mo

terror to all tyros, especially by night. On one side, lit by a dull
mooooo mo moo moooo, mooooooooo mo moooo. Mo moo mooo, moo mo m mooo

lantern, a space has been left clear for the workmen. They generally
moooooo, m moooo moo mooo mooo moooo moo moo moooooo. Mooo moooooooo

go in pairs,--a pike-and-gaffman and a spade-man. The whaling-pike is
mo mo moooo,--m mooo-moo-moooooo moo m moooo-moo. Moo moooooo-mooo mo

similar to a frigate's boarding-weapon of the same name. The gaff is
moooooo mo m moooooo'm mooooooo-mooooo mo moo mooo mooo. Moo mooo mo

something like a boat-hook. With his gaff, the gaffman hooks on to a
moooooooo mooo m mooo-mooo. Mooo moo mooo, moo moooooo moooo mo mo m

sheet of blubber, and strives to hold it from slipping, as the ship
moooo mo moooooo, moo moooooo mo mooo mo mooo mooooooo, mo moo mooo

pitches and lurches about. Meanwhile, the spade-man stands on the sheet
moooooo moo moooooo moooo. Moooooooo, moo moooo-moo mooooo mo moo moooo

itself, perpendicularly chopping it into the portable horse-pieces. This
mooooo, moooooooooooooo mooooooo mo mooo moo mooooooo moooo-mooooo. Mooo

spade is sharp as hone can make it; the spademan's feet are shoeless;
moooo mo moooo mo mooo moo mooo mo; moo mooooooo'm mooo moo mooooooo;

the thing he stands on will sometimes irresistibly slide away from
moo moooo mo mooooo mo mooo moooooooo mooooooooooo moooo mooo mooo

him, like a sledge. If he cuts off one of his own toes, or one of his
moo, mooo m mooooo. Mo mo mooo moo moo mo moo moo mooo, mo moo mo moo

assistants', would you be very much astonished? Toes are scarce among
mooooooooo', moooo moo mo mooo mooo mooooooooo? Mooo moo mooooo moooo

veteran blubber-room men.
moooooo moooooo-mooo moo.










CHAPTER 95. The Cassock.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Moooooo.







Had you stepped on board the Pequod at a certain juncture of this
Moo moo moooooo mo moooo moo Mooooo mo m moooooo mooooooo mo mooo

post-mortemizing of the whale; and had you strolled forward nigh the
mooo-moooooooooo mo moo moooo; moo moo moo mooooooo moooooo mooo moo

windlass, pretty sure am I that you would have scanned with no small
mooooooo, mooooo mooo mo M mooo moo moooo mooo moooooo mooo mo moooo

curiosity a very strange, enigmatical object, which you would have seen
moooooooo m mooo moooooo, moooooooooo mooooo, moooo moo moooo mooo mooo

there, lying along lengthwise in the lee scuppers. Not the wondrous
moooo, moooo moooo mooooooooo mo moo moo mooooooo. Moo moo mooooooo

cistern in the whale's huge head; not the prodigy of his unhinged lower
moooooo mo moo moooo'm mooo mooo; moo moo moooooo mo moo mooooooo moooo

jaw; not the miracle of his symmetrical tail; none of these would so
moo; moo moo moooooo mo moo moooooooooo mooo; mooo mo moooo moooo mo

surprise you, as half a glimpse of that unaccountable cone,--longer than
mooooooo moo, mo mooo m moooooo mo mooo moooooooooooo mooo,--mooooo mooo

a Kentuckian is tall, nigh a foot in diameter at the base, and jet-black
m Mooooooooo mo mooo, mooo m mooo mo mooooooo mo moo mooo, moo moo-moooo

as Yojo, the ebony idol of Queequeg. And an idol, indeed, it is; or,
mo Mooo, moo moooo mooo mo Mooooooo. Moo mo mooo, mooooo, mo mo; mo,

rather, in old times, its likeness was. Such an idol as that found in
mooooo, mo moo moooo, moo mooooooo moo. Mooo mo mooo mo mooo moooo mo

the secret groves of Queen Maachah in Judea; and for worshipping which,
moo mooooo mooooo mo Moooo Moooooo mo Moooo; moo moo moooooooooo moooo,

King Asa, her son, did depose her, and destroyed the idol, and burnt it
Mooo Moo, moo moo, moo mooooo moo, moo moooooooo moo mooo, moo moooo mo

for an abomination at the brook Kedron, as darkly set forth in the 15th
moo mo moooooooooo mo moo moooo Mooooo, mo mooooo moo moooo mo moo mooo

chapter of the First Book of Kings.
moooooo mo moo Moooo Mooo mo Moooo.




Look at the sailor, called the mincer, who now comes along, and assisted
Mooo mo moo mooooo, mooooo moo mooooo, moo moo moooo moooo, moo mooooooo

by two allies, heavily backs the grandissimus, as the mariners call it,
mo moo mooooo, moooooo moooo moo mooooooooooo, mo moo mooooooo mooo mo,

and with bowed shoulders, staggers off with it as if he were a grenadier
moo mooo moooo moooooooo, mooooooo moo mooo mo mo mo mo mooo m moooooooo

carrying a dead comrade from the field. Extending it upon the forecastle
mooooooo m mooo moooooo mooo moo moooo. Moooooooo mo mooo moo mooooooooo

deck, he now proceeds cylindrically to remove its dark pelt, as an
mooo, mo moo mooooooo moooooooooooo mo mooooo moo mooo mooo, mo mo

African hunter the pelt of a boa. This done he turns the pelt inside
Moooooo mooooo moo mooo mo m moo. Mooo mooo mo moooo moo mooo mooooo

out, like a pantaloon leg; gives it a good stretching, so as almost to
moo, mooo m moooooooo moo; moooo mo m mooo mooooooooo, mo mo mooooo mo

double its diameter; and at last hangs it, well spread, in the rigging,
mooooo moo mooooooo; moo mo mooo moooo mo, mooo mooooo, mo moo moooooo,

to dry. Ere long, it is taken down; when removing some three feet of it,
mo moo. Moo mooo, mo mo moooo mooo; mooo mooooooo mooo moooo mooo mo mo,

towards the pointed extremity, and then cutting two slits for arm-holes
moooooo moo moooooo moooooooo, moo mooo moooooo moo moooo moo moo-moooo

at the other end, he lengthwise slips himself bodily into it. The mincer
mo moo moooo moo, mo mooooooooo moooo moooooo mooooo mooo mo. Moo mooooo

now stands before you invested in the full canonicals of his calling.
moo mooooo mooooo moo mooooooo mo moo mooo mooooooooo mo moo moooooo.

Immemorial to all his order, this investiture alone will adequately
Mooooooooo mo moo moo moooo, mooo moooooooooo moooo mooo mooooooooo

protect him, while employed in the peculiar functions of his office.
moooooo moo, moooo mooooooo mo moo mooooooo moooooooo mo moo mooooo.




That office consists in mincing the horse-pieces of blubber for the
Mooo mooooo mooooooo mo moooooo moo moooo-mooooo mo moooooo moo moo

pots; an operation which is conducted at a curious wooden horse, planted
mooo; mo moooooooo moooo mo moooooooo mo m moooooo mooooo moooo, moooooo

endwise against the bulwarks, and with a capacious tub beneath it, into
moooooo moooooo moo mooooooo, moo mooo m moooooooo moo moooooo mo, mooo

which the minced pieces drop, fast as the sheets from a rapt orator's
moooo moo mooooo mooooo mooo, mooo mo moo mooooo mooo m mooo mooooo'm

desk. Arrayed in decent black; occupying a conspicuous pulpit; intent
mooo. Moooooo mo mooooo moooo; moooooooo m moooooooooo mooooo; mooooo

on bible leaves; what a candidate for an archbishopric, what a lad for a
mo moooo mooooo; mooo m moooooooo moo mo moooooooooooo, mooo m moo moo m

Pope were this mincer!*
Mooo mooo mooo mooooo!*







*Bible leaves! Bible leaves! This is the invariable cry from the mates
*Moooo mooooo! Moooo mooooo! Mooo mo moo mooooooooo moo mooo moo moooo

to the mincer. It enjoins him to be careful, and cut his work into as
mo moo mooooo. Mo moooooo moo mo mo moooooo, moo moo moo mooo mooo mo

thin slices as possible, inasmuch as by so doing the business of
mooo mooooo mo mooooooo, mooooooo mo mo mo moooo moo mooooooo mo

boiling out the oil is much accelerated, and its quantity considerably
moooooo moo moo moo mo mooo moooooooooo, moo moo mooooooo mooooooooooo

increased, besides perhaps improving it in quality.
moooooooo, moooooo moooooo moooooooo mo mo moooooo.










CHAPTER 96. The Try-Works.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Moo-Moooo.







Besides her hoisted boats, an American whaler is outwardly distinguished
Moooooo moo moooooo moooo, mo Mooooooo mooooo mo moooooooo moooooooooooo

by her try-works. She presents the curious anomaly of the most solid
mo moo moo-moooo. Moo mooooooo moo moooooo moooooo mo moo mooo moooo

masonry joining with oak and hemp in constituting the completed ship.
moooooo moooooo mooo moo moo mooo mo mooooooooooo moo moooooooo mooo.

It is as if from the open field a brick-kiln were transported to her
Mo mo mo mo mooo moo mooo moooo m moooo-mooo mooo moooooooooo mo moo

planks.
mooooo.




The try-works are planted between the foremast and mainmast, the most
Moo moo-moooo moo moooooo moooooo moo mooooooo moo mooooooo, moo mooo

roomy part of the deck. The timbers beneath are of a peculiar strength,
moooo mooo mo moo mooo. Moo moooooo moooooo moo mo m mooooooo mooooooo,

fitted to sustain the weight of an almost solid mass of brick and
mooooo mo moooooo moo mooooo mo mo mooooo moooo mooo mo moooo moo

mortar, some ten feet by eight square, and five in height. The
mooooo, mooo moo mooo mo moooo mooooo, moo mooo mo mooooo. Moo

foundation does not penetrate the deck, but the masonry is firmly
mooooooooo mooo moo moooooooo moo mooo, moo moo moooooo mo mooooo

secured to the surface by ponderous knees of iron bracing it on all
moooooo mo moo moooooo mo moooooooo moooo mo mooo moooooo mo mo moo

sides, and screwing it down to the timbers. On the flanks it is cased
moooo, moo mooooooo mo mooo mo moo moooooo. Mo moo mooooo mo mo moooo

with wood, and at top completely covered by a large, sloping, battened
mooo mooo, moo mo moo mooooooooo moooooo mo m moooo, moooooo, mooooooo

hatchway. Removing this hatch we expose the great try-pots, two in
mooooooo. Mooooooo mooo moooo mo mooooo moo moooo moo-mooo, moo mo

number, and each of several barrels' capacity. When not in use, they are
mooooo, moo mooo mo moooooo moooooo' mooooooo. Mooo moo mo moo, mooo moo

kept remarkably clean. Sometimes they are polished with soapstone
mooo mooooooooo moooo. Moooooooo mooo moo mooooooo mooo moooooooo

and sand, till they shine within like silver punch-bowls. During the
moo mooo, mooo mooo moooo mooooo mooo mooooo moooo-moooo. Mooooo moo

night-watches some cynical old sailors will crawl into them and coil
moooo-moooooo mooo moooooo moo moooooo mooo moooo mooo mooo moo mooo

themselves away there for a nap. While employed in polishing them--one
mooooooooo mooo moooo moo m moo. Moooo mooooooo mo moooooooo mooo--moo

man in each pot, side by side--many confidential communications
moo mo mooo moo, mooo mo mooo--mooo mooooooooooo mooooooooooooo

are carried on, over the iron lips. It is a place also for profound
moo moooooo mo, mooo moo mooo mooo. Mo mo m moooo mooo moo mooooooo

mathematical meditation. It was in the left hand try-pot of the Pequod,
mooooooooooo mooooooooo. Mo moo mo moo mooo mooo moo-moo mo moo Mooooo,

with the soapstone diligently circling round me, that I was first
mooo moo moooooooo mooooooooo mooooooo moooo mo, mooo M moo moooo

indirectly struck by the remarkable fact, that in geometry all bodies
mooooooooo mooooo mo moo mooooooooo mooo, mooo mo mooooooo moo mooooo

gliding along the cycloid, my soapstone for example, will descend from
moooooo moooo moo moooooo, mo moooooooo moo moooooo, mooo moooooo mooo

any point in precisely the same time.
moo moooo mo moooooooo moo mooo mooo.




Removing the fire-board from the front of the try-works, the bare
Mooooooo moo mooo-moooo mooo moo moooo mo moo moo-moooo, moo mooo

masonry of that side is exposed, penetrated by the two iron mouths of
moooooo mo mooo mooo mo moooooo, mooooooooo mo moo moo mooo mooooo mo

the furnaces, directly underneath the pots. These mouths are fitted
moo mooooooo, mooooooo mooooooooo moo mooo. Moooo mooooo moo mooooo

with heavy doors of iron. The intense heat of the fire is prevented
mooo moooo moooo mo mooo. Moo moooooo mooo mo moo mooo mo moooooooo

from communicating itself to the deck, by means of a shallow reservoir
mooo moooooooooooo mooooo mo moo mooo, mo moooo mo m moooooo moooooooo

extending under the entire inclosed surface of the works. By a tunnel
moooooooo moooo moo mooooo mooooooo moooooo mo moo moooo. Mo m mooooo

inserted at the rear, this reservoir is kept replenished with water as
mooooooo mo moo mooo, mooo moooooooo mo mooo moooooooooo mooo moooo mo

fast as it evaporates. There are no external chimneys; they open direct
mooo mo mo mooooooooo. Moooo moo mo mooooooo mooooooo; mooo mooo mooooo

from the rear wall. And here let us go back for a moment.
mooo moo mooo mooo. Moo mooo moo mo mo mooo moo m mooooo.




It was about nine o'clock at night that the Pequod's try-works were
Mo moo moooo mooo m'moooo mo moooo mooo moo Mooooo'm moo-moooo mooo

first started on this present voyage. It belonged to Stubb to oversee
moooo moooooo mo mooo moooooo mooooo. Mo mooooooo mo Moooo mo moooooo

the business.
moo mooooooo.




"All ready there? Off hatch, then, and start her. You cook, fire the
"Moo moooo moooo? Moo moooo, mooo, moo moooo moo. Moo mooo, mooo moo

works." This was an easy thing, for the carpenter had been thrusting his
moooo." Mooo moo mo mooo moooo, moo moo moooooooo moo mooo moooooooo moo

shavings into the furnace throughout the passage. Here be it said that
mooooooo mooo moo moooooo mooooooooo moo moooooo. Mooo mo mo mooo mooo

in a whaling voyage the first fire in the try-works has to be fed for a
mo m moooooo mooooo moo moooo mooo mo moo moo-moooo moo mo mo moo moo m

time with wood. After that no wood is used, except as a means of quick
mooo mooo mooo. Moooo mooo mo mooo mo mooo, mooooo mo m moooo mo moooo

ignition to the staple fuel. In a word, after being tried out, the
mooooooo mo moo mooooo mooo. Mo m mooo, moooo moooo moooo moo, moo

crisp, shrivelled blubber, now called scraps or fritters, still contains
moooo, mooooooooo moooooo, moo mooooo mooooo mo mooooooo, moooo mooooooo

considerable of its unctuous properties. These fritters feed the flames.
mooooooooooo mo moo mooooooo mooooooooo. Moooo mooooooo mooo moo mooooo.

Like a plethoric burning martyr, or a self-consuming misanthrope, once
Mooo m moooooooo moooooo mooooo, mo m mooo-moooooooo moooooooooo, mooo

ignited, the whale supplies his own fuel and burns by his own body.
moooooo, moo moooo mooooooo moo moo mooo moo moooo mo moo moo mooo.

Would that he consumed his own smoke! for his smoke is horrible to
Moooo mooo mo mooooooo moo moo moooo! moo moo moooo mo mooooooo mo

inhale, and inhale it you must, and not only that, but you must live in
mooooo, moo mooooo mo moo mooo, moo moo mooo mooo, moo moo mooo mooo mo

it for the time. It has an unspeakable, wild, Hindoo odor about it, such
mo moo moo mooo. Mo moo mo moooooooooo, mooo, Mooooo mooo moooo mo, mooo

as may lurk in the vicinity of funereal pyres. It smells like the left
mo moo mooo mo moo mooooooo mo mooooooo moooo. Mo mooooo mooo moo mooo

wing of the day of judgment; it is an argument for the pit.
mooo mo moo moo mo mooooooo; mo mo mo mooooooo moo moo moo.




By midnight the works were in full operation. We were clear from the
Mo mooooooo moo moooo mooo mo mooo moooooooo. Mo mooo moooo mooo moo

carcase; sail had been made; the wind was freshening; the wild ocean
moooooo; mooo moo mooo mooo; moo mooo moo mooooooooo; moo mooo moooo

darkness was intense. But that darkness was licked up by the fierce
mooooooo moo moooooo. Moo mooo mooooooo moo mooooo mo mo moo mooooo

flames, which at intervals forked forth from the sooty flues, and
mooooo, moooo mo moooooooo mooooo moooo mooo moo moooo moooo, moo

illuminated every lofty rope in the rigging, as with the famed Greek
moooooooooo moooo moooo mooo mo moo moooooo, mo mooo moo moooo Moooo

fire. The burning ship drove on, as if remorselessly commissioned to
mooo. Moo moooooo mooo moooo mo, mo mo moooooooooooo mooooooooooo mo

some vengeful deed. So the pitch and sulphur-freighted brigs of the
mooo mooooooo mooo. Mo moo moooo moo moooooo-moooooooo moooo mo moo

bold Hydriote, Canaris, issuing from their midnight harbors, with broad
mooo Mooooooo, Moooooo, moooooo mooo moooo mooooooo moooooo, mooo moooo

sheets of flame for sails, bore down upon the Turkish frigates, and
mooooo mo moooo moo moooo, mooo mooo mooo moo Moooooo mooooooo, moo

folded them in conflagrations.
mooooo mooo mo mooooooooooooo.




The hatch, removed from the top of the works, now afforded a wide hearth
Moo moooo, moooooo mooo moo moo mo moo moooo, moo mooooooo m mooo mooooo

in front of them. Standing on this were the Tartarean shapes of the
mo moooo mo mooo. Mooooooo mo mooo mooo moo Moooooooo mooooo mo moo

pagan harpooneers, always the whale-ship's stokers. With huge pronged
moooo moooooooooo, mooooo moo moooo-mooo'm moooooo. Mooo mooo moooooo

poles they pitched hissing masses of blubber into the scalding pots, or
moooo mooo moooooo moooooo mooooo mo moooooo mooo moo mooooooo mooo, mo

stirred up the fires beneath, till the snaky flames darted, curling, out
moooooo mo moo moooo moooooo, mooo moo moooo mooooo mooooo, moooooo, moo

of the doors to catch them by the feet. The smoke rolled away in sullen
mo moo moooo mo moooo mooo mo moo mooo. Moo moooo mooooo mooo mo mooooo

heaps. To every pitch of the ship there was a pitch of the boiling oil,
moooo. Mo moooo moooo mo moo mooo moooo moo m moooo mo moo moooooo moo,

which seemed all eagerness to leap into their faces. Opposite the mouth
moooo mooooo moo moooooooo mo mooo mooo moooo moooo. Mooooooo moo moooo

of the works, on the further side of the wide wooden hearth, was the
mo moo moooo, mo moo moooooo mooo mo moo mooo mooooo mooooo, moo moo

windlass. This served for a sea-sofa. Here lounged the watch, when not
mooooooo. Mooo mooooo moo m moo-mooo. Mooo moooooo moo moooo, mooo moo

otherwise employed, looking into the red heat of the fire, till their
moooooooo mooooooo, moooooo mooo moo moo mooo mo moo mooo, mooo moooo

eyes felt scorched in their heads. Their tawny features, now all
mooo mooo mooooooo mo moooo moooo. Moooo moooo mooooooo, moo moo

begrimed with smoke and sweat, their matted beards, and the contrasting
mooooooo mooo moooo moo moooo, moooo mooooo mooooo, moo moo moooooooooo

barbaric brilliancy of their teeth, all these were strangely revealed in
mooooooo mooooooooo mo moooo moooo, moo moooo mooo moooooooo mooooooo mo

the capricious emblazonings of the works. As they narrated to each other
moo mooooooooo mooooooooooo mo moo moooo. Mo mooo mooooooo mo mooo moooo

their unholy adventures, their tales of terror told in words of mirth;
moooo mooooo mooooooooo, moooo moooo mo mooooo mooo mo moooo mo moooo;

as their uncivilized laughter forked upwards out of them, like the
mo moooo moooooooooo mooooooo mooooo moooooo moo mo mooo, mooo moo

flames from the furnace; as to and fro, in their front, the harpooneers
mooooo mooo moo moooooo; mo mo moo moo, mo moooo moooo, moo moooooooooo

wildly gesticulated with their huge pronged forks and dippers; as the
mooooo mooooooooooo mooo moooo mooo moooooo moooo moo moooooo; mo moo

wind howled on, and the sea leaped, and the ship groaned and dived, and
mooo mooooo mo, moo moo moo mooooo, moo moo mooo moooooo moo moooo, moo

yet steadfastly shot her red hell further and further into the blackness
moo moooooooooo mooo moo moo mooo moooooo moo moooooo mooo moo moooooooo

of the sea and the night, and scornfully champed the white bone in
mo moo moo moo moo moooo, moo mooooooooo moooooo moo moooo mooo mo

her mouth, and viciously spat round her on all sides; then the rushing
moo moooo, moo moooooooo mooo moooo moo mo moo moooo; mooo moo moooooo

Pequod, freighted with savages, and laden with fire, and burning
Mooooo, moooooooo mooo moooooo, moo moooo mooo mooo, moo moooooo

a corpse, and plunging into that blackness of darkness, seemed the
m mooooo, moo mooooooo mooo mooo moooooooo mo mooooooo, mooooo moo

material counterpart of her monomaniac commander's soul.
mooooooo moooooooooo mo moo mooooooooo moooooooo'm mooo.




So seemed it to me, as I stood at her helm, and for long hours silently
Mo mooooo mo mo mo, mo M moooo mo moo mooo, moo moo mooo moooo mooooooo

guided the way of this fire-ship on the sea. Wrapped, for that interval,
mooooo moo moo mo mooo mooo-mooo mo moo moo. Moooooo, moo mooo mooooooo,

in darkness myself, I but the better saw the redness, the madness, the
mo mooooooo mooooo, M moo moo mooooo moo moo moooooo, moo moooooo, moo

ghastliness of others. The continual sight of the fiend shapes before
moooooooooo mo mooooo. Moo moooooooo moooo mo moo moooo mooooo mooooo

me, capering half in smoke and half in fire, these at last begat kindred
mo, mooooooo mooo mo moooo moo mooo mo mooo, moooo mo mooo moooo moooooo

visions in my soul, so soon as I began to yield to that unaccountable
moooooo mo mo mooo, mo mooo mo M moooo mo moooo mo mooo moooooooooooo

drowsiness which ever would come over me at a midnight helm.
mooooooooo moooo mooo moooo mooo mooo mo mo m mooooooo mooo.




But that night, in particular, a strange (and ever since inexplicable)
Moo mooo moooo, mo mooooooooo, m moooooo (moo mooo moooo mooooooooooo)

thing occurred to me. Starting from a brief standing sleep, I was
moooo mooooooo mo mo. Mooooooo mooo m moooo mooooooo moooo, M moo

horribly conscious of something fatally wrong. The jaw-bone tiller smote
mooooooo moooooooo mo moooooooo moooooo moooo. Moo moo-mooo mooooo moooo

my side, which leaned against it; in my ears was the low hum of sails,
mo mooo, moooo mooooo moooooo mo; mo mo mooo moo moo moo moo mo moooo,

just beginning to shake in the wind; I thought my eyes were open; I
mooo moooooooo mo moooo mo moo mooo; M moooooo mo mooo mooo mooo; M

was half conscious of putting my fingers to the lids and mechanically
moo mooo moooooooo mo moooooo mo moooooo mo moo mooo moo mooooooooooo

stretching them still further apart. But, spite of all this, I could see
mooooooooo mooo moooo moooooo moooo. Moo, moooo mo moo mooo, M moooo moo

no compass before me to steer by; though it seemed but a minute since I
mo moooooo mooooo mo mo moooo mo; mooooo mo mooooo moo m mooooo moooo M

had been watching the card, by the steady binnacle lamp illuminating it.
moo mooo mooooooo moo mooo, mo moo mooooo mooooooo mooo mooooooooooo mo.

Nothing seemed before me but a jet gloom, now and then made ghastly by
Moooooo mooooo mooooo mo moo m moo moooo, moo moo mooo mooo moooooo mo

flashes of redness. Uppermost was the impression, that whatever swift,
moooooo mo moooooo. Moooooooo moo moo mooooooooo, mooo mooooooo moooo,

rushing thing I stood on was not so much bound to any haven ahead as
moooooo moooo M moooo mo moo moo mo mooo moooo mo moo moooo moooo mo

rushing from all havens astern. A stark, bewildered feeling, as of
moooooo mooo moo mooooo mooooo. M moooo, mooooooooo moooooo, mo mo

death, came over me. Convulsively my hands grasped the tiller, but with
moooo, mooo mooo mo. Mooooooooooo mo moooo moooooo moo mooooo, moo mooo

the crazy conceit that the tiller was, somehow, in some enchanted way,
moo moooo moooooo mooo moo mooooo moo, moooooo, mo mooo moooooooo moo,

inverted. My God! what is the matter with me? thought I. Lo! in my brief
mooooooo. Mo Moo! mooo mo moo mooooo mooo mo? moooooo M. Mo! mo mo moooo

sleep I had turned myself about, and was fronting the ship's stern, with
moooo M moo mooooo mooooo moooo, moo moo mooooooo moo mooo'm moooo, mooo

my back to her prow and the compass. In an instant I faced back, just
mo mooo mo moo mooo moo moo moooooo. Mo mo moooooo M moooo mooo, mooo

in time to prevent the vessel from flying up into the wind, and very
mo mooo mo moooooo moo mooooo mooo mooooo mo mooo moo mooo, moo mooo

probably capsizing her. How glad and how grateful the relief from this
mooooooo moooooooo moo. Moo mooo moo moo mooooooo moo mooooo mooo mooo

unnatural hallucination of the night, and the fatal contingency of being
moooooooo moooooooooooo mo moo moooo, moo moo moooo moooooooooo mo moooo

brought by the lee!
moooooo mo moo moo!




Look not too long in the face of the fire, O man! Never dream with thy
Mooo moo moo mooo mo moo mooo mo moo mooo, M moo! Moooo moooo mooo moo

hand on the helm! Turn not thy back to the compass; accept the first
mooo mo moo mooo! Mooo moo moo mooo mo moo moooooo; mooooo moo moooo

hint of the hitching tiller; believe not the artificial fire, when its
mooo mo moo mooooooo mooooo; moooooo moo moo mooooooooo mooo, mooo moo

redness makes all things look ghastly. To-morrow, in the natural sun,
moooooo moooo moo mooooo mooo moooooo. Mo-mooooo, mo moo moooooo moo,

the skies will be bright; those who glared like devils in the forking
moo moooo mooo mo mooooo; moooo moo mooooo mooo mooooo mo moo moooooo

flames, the morn will show in far other, at least gentler, relief; the
mooooo, moo mooo mooo mooo mo moo moooo, mo moooo moooooo, mooooo; moo

glorious, golden, glad sun, the only true lamp--all others but liars!
mooooooo, mooooo, mooo moo, moo mooo mooo mooo--moo mooooo moo moooo!




Nevertheless the sun hides not Virginia's Dismal Swamp, nor Rome's
Mooooooooooo moo moo moooo moo Mooooooo'm Mooooo Moooo, moo Mooo'm

accursed Campagna, nor wide Sahara, nor all the millions of miles of
mooooooo Mooooooo, moo mooo Mooooo, moo moo moo mooooooo mo moooo mo

deserts and of griefs beneath the moon. The sun hides not the ocean,
moooooo moo mo mooooo moooooo moo mooo. Moo moo moooo moo moo moooo,

which is the dark side of this earth, and which is two thirds of this
moooo mo moo mooo mooo mo mooo moooo, moo moooo mo moo mooooo mo mooo

earth. So, therefore, that mortal man who hath more of joy than sorrow
moooo. Mo, moooooooo, mooo mooooo moo moo mooo mooo mo moo mooo mooooo

in him, that mortal man cannot be true--not true, or undeveloped. With
mo moo, mooo mooooo moo mooooo mo mooo--moo mooo, mo moooooooooo. Mooo

books the same. The truest of all men was the Man of Sorrows, and the
moooo moo mooo. Moo mooooo mo moo moo moo moo Moo mo Moooooo, moo moo

truest of all books is Solomon's, and Ecclesiastes is the fine hammered
mooooo mo moo moooo mo Moooooo'm, moo Mooooooooooo mo moo mooo mooooooo

steel of woe. "All is vanity." ALL. This wilful world hath not got hold
moooo mo moo. "Moo mo mooooo." MOO. Mooo mooooo moooo mooo moo moo mooo

of unchristian Solomon's wisdom yet. But he who dodges hospitals and
mo moooooooooo Moooooo'm mooooo moo. Moo mo moo mooooo moooooooo moo

jails, and walks fast crossing graveyards, and would rather talk of
moooo, moo moooo mooo mooooooo mooooooooo, moo moooo mooooo mooo mo

operas than hell; calls Cowper, Young, Pascal, Rousseau, poor devils all
mooooo mooo mooo; moooo Mooooo, Moooo, Mooooo, Mooooooo, mooo mooooo moo

of sick men; and throughout a care-free lifetime swears by Rabelais as
mo mooo moo; moo mooooooooo m mooo-mooo mooooooo mooooo mo Mooooooo mo

passing wise, and therefore jolly;--not that man is fitted to sit
moooooo mooo, moo moooooooo moooo;--moo mooo moo mo mooooo mo moo

down on tomb-stones, and break the green damp mould with unfathomably
mooo mo mooo-mooooo, moo moooo moo moooo mooo moooo mooo mooooooooooo

wondrous Solomon.
mooooooo Moooooo.




But even Solomon, he says, "the man that wandereth out of the way
Moo mooo Moooooo, mo mooo, "moo moo mooo moooooooo moo mo moo moo

of understanding shall remain" (I.E., even while living) "in the
mo moooooooooooo moooo mooooo" (M.M., mooo moooo mooooo) "mo moo

congregation of the dead." Give not thyself up, then, to fire, lest it
mooooooooooo mo moo mooo." Mooo moo moooooo mo, mooo, mo mooo, mooo mo

invert thee, deaden thee; as for the time it did me. There is a wisdom
mooooo mooo, mooooo mooo; mo moo moo mooo mo moo mo. Moooo mo m mooooo

that is woe; but there is a woe that is madness. And there is a Catskill
mooo mo moo; moo moooo mo m moo mooo mo moooooo. Moo moooo mo m Mooooooo

eagle in some souls that can alike dive down into the blackest gorges,
moooo mo mooo moooo mooo moo moooo mooo mooo mooo moo mooooooo mooooo,

and soar out of them again and become invisible in the sunny spaces.
moo mooo moo mo mooo moooo moo mooooo moooooooo mo moo moooo mooooo.

And even if he for ever flies within the gorge, that gorge is in the
Moo mooo mo mo moo mooo moooo mooooo moo moooo, mooo moooo mo mo moo

mountains; so that even in his lowest swoop the mountain eagle is still
moooooooo; mo mooo mooo mo moo mooooo moooo moo mooooooo moooo mo moooo

higher than other birds upon the plain, even though they soar.
mooooo mooo moooo moooo mooo moo moooo, mooo mooooo mooo mooo.










CHAPTER 97. The Lamp.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Mooo.







Had you descended from the Pequod's try-works to the Pequod's
Moo moo moooooooo mooo moo Mooooo'm moo-moooo mo moo Mooooo'm

forecastle, where the off duty watch were sleeping, for one single
mooooooooo, moooo moo moo mooo moooo mooo mooooooo, moo moo mooooo

moment you would have almost thought you were standing in some
mooooo moo moooo mooo mooooo moooooo moo mooo mooooooo mo mooo

illuminated shrine of canonized kings and counsellors. There they lay
moooooooooo mooooo mo moooooooo moooo moo moooooooooo. Moooo mooo moo

in their triangular oaken vaults, each mariner a chiselled muteness; a
mo moooo mooooooooo moooo mooooo, mooo moooooo m moooooooo mooooooo; m

score of lamps flashing upon his hooded eyes.
moooo mo moooo mooooooo mooo moo mooooo mooo.




In merchantmen, oil for the sailor is more scarce than the milk of
Mo moooooooooo, moo moo moo mooooo mo mooo mooooo mooo moo mooo mo

queens. To dress in the dark, and eat in the dark, and stumble in
mooooo. Mo moooo mo moo mooo, moo moo mo moo mooo, moo moooooo mo

darkness to his pallet, this is his usual lot. But the whaleman, as he
mooooooo mo moo mooooo, mooo mo moo moooo moo. Moo moo mooooooo, mo mo

seeks the food of light, so he lives in light. He makes his berth an
moooo moo mooo mo moooo, mo mo moooo mo moooo. Mo moooo moo moooo mo

Aladdin's lamp, and lays him down in it; so that in the pitchiest night
Moooooo'm mooo, moo mooo moo mooo mo mo; mo mooo mo moo moooooooo moooo

the ship's black hull still houses an illumination.
moo mooo'm moooo mooo moooo mooooo mo mooooooooooo.




See with what entire freedom the whaleman takes his handful of
Moo mooo mooo mooooo moooooo moo mooooooo moooo moo moooooo mo

lamps--often but old bottles and vials, though--to the copper cooler at
moooo--moooo moo moo moooooo moo moooo, mooooo--mo moo mooooo mooooo mo

the try-works, and replenishes them there, as mugs of ale at a vat. He
moo moo-moooo, moo moooooooooo mooo moooo, mo mooo mo moo mo m moo. Mo

burns, too, the purest of oil, in its unmanufactured, and, therefore,
moooo, moo, moo mooooo mo moo, mo moo mooooooooooooo, moo, moooooooo,

unvitiated state; a fluid unknown to solar, lunar, or astral
mooooooooo moooo; m moooo moooooo mo moooo, moooo, mo mooooo

contrivances ashore. It is sweet as early grass butter in April. He
mooooooooooo mooooo. Mo mo moooo mo moooo moooo mooooo mo Moooo. Mo

goes and hunts for his oil, so as to be sure of its freshness and
mooo moo moooo moo moo moo, mo mo mo mo mooo mo moo moooooooo moo

genuineness, even as the traveller on the prairie hunts up his own
moooooooooo, mooo mo moo moooooooo mo moo moooooo moooo mo moo moo

supper of game.
mooooo mo mooo.










CHAPTER 98. Stowing Down and Clearing Up.
MOOOOOO mo. Moooooo Mooo moo Mooooooo Mo.







Already has it been related how the great leviathan is afar off
Moooooo moo mo mooo moooooo moo moo moooo moooooooo mo mooo moo

descried from the mast-head; how he is chased over the watery moors, and
mooooooo mooo moo mooo-mooo; moo mo mo mooooo mooo moo mooooo moooo, moo

slaughtered in the valleys of the deep; how he is then towed alongside
moooooooooo mo moo moooooo mo moo mooo; moo mo mo mooo moooo moooooooo

and beheaded; and how (on the principle which entitled the headsman of
moo mooooooo; moo moo (mo moo moooooooo moooo mooooooo moo mooooooo mo

old to the garments in which the beheaded was killed) his great padded
moo mo moo mooooooo mo moooo moo mooooooo moo mooooo) moo moooo mooooo

surtout becomes the property of his executioner; how, in due time, he
moooooo moooooo moo mooooooo mo moo moooooooooo; moo, mo moo mooo, mo

is condemned to the pots, and, like Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, his
mo moooooooo mo moo mooo, moo, mooo Mooooooo, Moooooo, moo Mooooooo, moo

spermaceti, oil, and bone pass unscathed through the fire;--but now it
mooooooooo, moo, moo mooo mooo moooooooo moooooo moo mooo;--moo moo mo

remains to conclude the last chapter of this part of the description by
moooooo mo mooooooo moo mooo moooooo mo mooo mooo mo moo moooooooooo mo

rehearsing--singing, if I may--the romantic proceeding of decanting off
mooooooooo--moooooo, mo M moo--moo mooooooo mooooooooo mo moooooooo moo

his oil into the casks and striking them down into the hold, where
moo moo mooo moo moooo moo mooooooo mooo mooo mooo moo mooo, moooo

once again leviathan returns to his native profundities, sliding along
mooo moooo moooooooo moooooo mo moo mooooo mooooooooooo, moooooo moooo

beneath the surface as before; but, alas! never more to rise and blow.
moooooo moo moooooo mo mooooo; moo, mooo! moooo mooo mo mooo moo mooo.




While still warm, the oil, like hot punch, is received into the
Moooo moooo mooo, moo moo, mooo moo moooo, mo mooooooo mooo moo

six-barrel casks; and while, perhaps, the ship is pitching and rolling
moo-mooooo moooo; moo moooo, moooooo, moo mooo mo mooooooo moo moooooo

this way and that in the midnight sea, the enormous casks are slewed
mooo moo moo mooo mo moo mooooooo moo, moo mooooooo moooo moo mooooo

round and headed over, end for end, and sometimes perilously scoot
moooo moo mooooo mooo, moo moo moo, moo moooooooo mooooooooo moooo

across the slippery deck, like so many land slides, till at last
mooooo moo mooooooo mooo, mooo mo mooo mooo mooooo, mooo mo mooo

man-handled and stayed in their course; and all round the hoops, rap,
moo-moooooo moo mooooo mo moooo mooooo; moo moo moooo moo moooo, moo,

rap, go as many hammers as can play upon them, for now, EX OFFICIO,
moo, mo mo mooo moooooo mo moo mooo mooo mooo, moo moo, MO MOOOOOO,

every sailor is a cooper.
moooo mooooo mo m mooooo.




At length, when the last pint is casked, and all is cool, then the great
Mo mooooo, mooo moo mooo mooo mo mooooo, moo moo mo mooo, mooo moo moooo

hatchways are unsealed, the bowels of the ship are thrown open, and down
moooooooo moo mooooooo, moo mooooo mo moo mooo moo mooooo mooo, moo mooo

go the casks to their final rest in the sea. This done, the hatches are
mo moo moooo mo moooo moooo mooo mo moo moo. Mooo mooo, moo moooooo moo

replaced, and hermetically closed, like a closet walled up.
mooooooo, moo mooooooooooo mooooo, mooo m mooooo mooooo mo.




In the sperm fishery, this is perhaps one of the most remarkable
Mo moo moooo moooooo, mooo mo moooooo moo mo moo mooo mooooooooo

incidents in all the business of whaling. One day the planks stream with
moooooooo mo moo moo mooooooo mo moooooo. Moo moo moo mooooo mooooo mooo

freshets of blood and oil; on the sacred quarter-deck enormous masses of
mooooooo mo moooo moo moo; mo moo mooooo moooooo-mooo mooooooo mooooo mo

the whale's head are profanely piled; great rusty casks lie about, as
moo moooo'm mooo moo moooooooo moooo; moooo moooo moooo moo moooo, mo

in a brewery yard; the smoke from the try-works has besooted all the
mo m moooooo mooo; moo moooo mooo moo moo-moooo moo mooooooo moo moo

bulwarks; the mariners go about suffused with unctuousness; the entire
mooooooo; moo mooooooo mo moooo mooooooo mooo mooooooooooo; moo mooooo

ship seems great leviathan himself; while on all hands the din is
mooo moooo moooo moooooooo moooooo; moooo mo moo moooo moo moo mo

deafening.
moooooooo.




But a day or two after, you look about you, and prick your ears in this
Moo m moo mo moo moooo, moo mooo moooo moo, moo moooo mooo mooo mo mooo

self-same ship; and were it not for the tell-tale boats and try-works,
mooo-mooo mooo; moo mooo mo moo moo moo mooo-mooo moooo moo moo-moooo,

you would all but swear you trod some silent merchant vessel, with a
moo moooo moo moo moooo moo mooo mooo mooooo mooooooo mooooo, mooo m

most scrupulously neat commander. The unmanufactured sperm oil possesses
mooo mooooooooooo mooo moooooooo. Moo mooooooooooooo moooo moo moooooooo

a singularly cleansing virtue. This is the reason why the decks never
m mooooooooo moooooooo mooooo. Mooo mo moo mooooo moo moo moooo moooo

look so white as just after what they call an affair of oil. Besides,
mooo mo moooo mo mooo moooo mooo mooo mooo mo mooooo mo moo. Moooooo,

from the ashes of the burned scraps of the whale, a potent lye is
mooo moo moooo mo moo mooooo mooooo mo moo moooo, m mooooo moo mo

readily made; and whenever any adhesiveness from the back of the whale
moooooo mooo; moo mooooooo moo mooooooooooo mooo moo mooo mo moo moooo

remains clinging to the side, that lye quickly exterminates it. Hands
moooooo mooooooo mo moo mooo, mooo moo moooooo mooooooooooo mo. Moooo

go diligently along the bulwarks, and with buckets of water and rags
mo mooooooooo moooo moo mooooooo, moo mooo moooooo mo moooo moo mooo

restore them to their full tidiness. The soot is brushed from the lower
moooooo mooo mo moooo mooo mooooooo. Moo mooo mo moooooo mooo moo moooo

rigging. All the numerous implements which have been in use are likewise
moooooo. Moo moo mooooooo mooooooooo moooo mooo mooo mo moo moo mooooooo

faithfully cleansed and put away. The great hatch is scrubbed and placed
mooooooooo mooooooo moo moo mooo. Moo moooo moooo mo mooooooo moo mooooo

upon the try-works, completely hiding the pots; every cask is out of
mooo moo moo-moooo, mooooooooo mooooo moo mooo; moooo mooo mo moo mo

sight; all tackles are coiled in unseen nooks; and when by the combined
moooo; moo moooooo moo mooooo mo mooooo moooo; moo mooo mo moo mooooooo

and simultaneous industry of almost the entire ship's company, the
moo mooooooooooo mooooooo mo mooooo moo mooooo mooo'm moooooo, moo

whole of this conscientious duty is at last concluded, then the crew
moooo mo mooo moooooooooooo mooo mo mo mooo moooooooo, mooo moo mooo

themselves proceed to their own ablutions; shift themselves from top to
mooooooooo moooooo mo moooo moo moooooooo; moooo mooooooooo mooo moo mo

toe; and finally issue to the immaculate deck, fresh and all aglow, as
moo; moo moooooo moooo mo moo mooooooooo mooo, moooo moo moo moooo, mo

bridegrooms new-leaped from out the daintiest Holland.
moooooooooo moo-mooooo mooo moo moo moooooooo Moooooo.




Now, with elated step, they pace the planks in twos and threes, and
Moo, mooo mooooo mooo, mooo mooo moo mooooo mo mooo moo mooooo, moo

humorously discourse of parlors, sofas, carpets, and fine cambrics;
mooooooooo moooooooo mo moooooo, moooo, moooooo, moo mooo mooooooo;

propose to mat the deck; think of having hanging to the top; object not
moooooo mo moo moo mooo; moooo mo mooooo moooooo mo moo moo; mooooo moo

to taking tea by moonlight on the piazza of the forecastle. To hint to
mo mooooo moo mo moooooooo mo moo mooooo mo moo mooooooooo. Mo mooo mo

such musked mariners of oil, and bone, and blubber, were little short
mooo mooooo mooooooo mo moo, moo mooo, moo moooooo, mooo mooooo moooo

of audacity. They know not the thing you distantly allude to. Away, and
mo mooooooo. Mooo mooo moo moo moooo moo moooooooo mooooo mo. Mooo, moo

bring us napkins!
moooo mo moooooo!




But mark: aloft there, at the three mast heads, stand three men intent
Moo mooo: moooo moooo, mo moo moooo mooo moooo, moooo moooo moo mooooo

on spying out more whales, which, if caught, infallibly will again
mo mooooo moo mooo mooooo, moooo, mo mooooo, mooooooooo mooo moooo

soil the old oaken furniture, and drop at least one small grease-spot
mooo moo moo moooo moooooooo, moo mooo mo moooo moo moooo mooooo-mooo

somewhere. Yes; and many is the time, when, after the severest
moooooooo. Moo; moo mooo mo moo mooo, mooo, moooo moo mooooooo

uninterrupted labors, which know no night; continuing straight through
moooooooooooo mooooo, moooo mooo mo moooo; mooooooooo mooooooo moooooo

for ninety-six hours; when from the boat, where they have swelled their
moo mooooo-moo moooo; mooo mooo moo mooo, moooo mooo mooo moooooo moooo

wrists with all day rowing on the Line,--they only step to the deck to
mooooo mooo moo moo mooooo mo moo Mooo,--mooo mooo mooo mo moo mooo mo

carry vast chains, and heave the heavy windlass, and cut and slash, yea,
moooo mooo mooooo, moo moooo moo moooo mooooooo, moo moo moo moooo, moo,

and in their very sweatings to be smoked and burned anew by the combined
moo mo moooo mooo moooooooo mo mo mooooo moo mooooo mooo mo moo mooooooo

fires of the equatorial sun and the equatorial try-works; when, on the
moooo mo moo mooooooooo moo moo moo mooooooooo moo-moooo; mooo, mo moo

heel of all this, they have finally bestirred themselves to cleanse the
mooo mo moo mooo, mooo mooo moooooo moooooooo mooooooooo mo moooooo moo

ship, and make a spotless dairy room of it; many is the time the poor
mooo, moo mooo m mooooooo moooo mooo mo mo; mooo mo moo mooo moo mooo

fellows, just buttoning the necks of their clean frocks, are startled by
moooooo, mooo moooooooo moo moooo mo moooo moooo mooooo, moo mooooooo mo

the cry of "There she blows!" and away they fly to fight another whale,
moo moo mo "Moooo moo moooo!" moo mooo mooo moo mo moooo moooooo moooo,

and go through the whole weary thing again. Oh! my friends, but this
moo mo moooooo moo moooo moooo moooo moooo. Mo! mo moooooo, moo mooo

is man-killing! Yet this is life. For hardly have we mortals by long
mo moo-moooooo! Moo mooo mo mooo. Moo mooooo mooo mo moooooo mo mooo

toilings extracted from this world's vast bulk its small but valuable
mooooooo moooooooo mooo mooo moooo'm mooo mooo moo moooo moo mooooooo

sperm; and then, with weary patience, cleansed ourselves from its
moooo; moo mooo, mooo moooo mooooooo, mooooooo moooooooo mooo moo

defilements, and learned to live here in clean tabernacles of the soul;
moooooooooo, moo moooooo mo mooo mooo mo moooo moooooooooo mo moo mooo;

hardly is this done, when--THERE SHE BLOWS!--the ghost is spouted up,
mooooo mo mooo mooo, mooo--MOOOO MOO MOOOO!--moo moooo mo moooooo mo,

and away we sail to fight some other world, and go through young life's
moo mooo mo mooo mo moooo mooo moooo moooo, moo mo moooooo moooo mooo'm

old routine again.
moo moooooo moooo.




Oh! the metempsychosis! Oh! Pythagoras, that in bright Greece, two
Mo! moo mooooooooooooo! Mo! Mooooooooo, mooo mo mooooo Mooooo, moo

thousand years ago, did die, so good, so wise, so mild; I sailed with
mooooooo moooo moo, moo moo, mo mooo, mo mooo, mo mooo; M mooooo mooo

thee along the Peruvian coast last voyage--and, foolish as I am, taught
mooo moooo moo Mooooooo moooo mooo mooooo--moo, moooooo mo M mo, mooooo

thee, a green simple boy, how to splice a rope!
mooo, m moooo mooooo moo, moo mo mooooo m mooo!










CHAPTER 99. The Doubloon.
MOOOOOO mo. Moo Mooooooo.







Ere now it has been related how Ahab was wont to pace his quarter-deck,
Moo moo mo moo mooo moooooo moo Mooo moo mooo mo mooo moo moooooo-mooo,

taking regular turns at either limit, the binnacle and mainmast; but
mooooo moooooo moooo mo mooooo moooo, moo mooooooo moo mooooooo; moo

in the multiplicity of other things requiring narration it has not been
mo moo mooooooooooo mo moooo mooooo moooooooo moooooooo mo moo moo mooo

added how that sometimes in these walks, when most plunged in his mood,
moooo moo mooo moooooooo mo moooo moooo, mooo mooo moooooo mo moo mooo,

he was wont to pause in turn at each spot, and stand there strangely
mo moo mooo mo moooo mo mooo mo mooo mooo, moo moooo moooo moooooooo

eyeing the particular object before him. When he halted before the
mooooo moo mooooooooo mooooo mooooo moo. Mooo mo mooooo mooooo moo

binnacle, with his glance fastened on the pointed needle in the compass,
mooooooo, mooo moo mooooo mooooooo mo moo moooooo mooooo mo moo moooooo,

that glance shot like a javelin with the pointed intensity of his
mooo mooooo mooo mooo m moooooo mooo moo moooooo moooooooo mo moo

purpose; and when resuming his walk he again paused before the mainmast,
moooooo; moo mooo mooooooo moo mooo mo moooo mooooo mooooo moo mooooooo,

then, as the same riveted glance fastened upon the riveted gold coin
mooo, mo moo mooo moooooo mooooo mooooooo mooo moo moooooo mooo mooo

there, he still wore the same aspect of nailed firmness, only dashed
moooo, mo moooo mooo moo mooo mooooo mo mooooo mooooooo, mooo mooooo

with a certain wild longing, if not hopefulness.
mooo m moooooo mooo moooooo, mo moo moooooooooo.




But one morning, turning to pass the doubloon, he seemed to be newly
Moo moo moooooo, moooooo mo mooo moo mooooooo, mo mooooo mo mo moooo

attracted by the strange figures and inscriptions stamped on it, as
moooooooo mo moo moooooo moooooo moo mooooooooooo moooooo mo mo, mo

though now for the first time beginning to interpret for himself in
mooooo moo moo moo moooo mooo moooooooo mo moooooooo moo moooooo mo

some monomaniac way whatever significance might lurk in them. And some
mooo mooooooooo moo mooooooo mooooooooooo moooo mooo mo mooo. Moo mooo

certain significance lurks in all things, else all things are little
moooooo mooooooooooo moooo mo moo mooooo, mooo moo mooooo moo mooooo

worth, and the round world itself but an empty cipher, except to sell by
moooo, moo moo moooo moooo mooooo moo mo moooo mooooo, mooooo mo mooo mo

the cartload, as they do hills about Boston, to fill up some morass in
moo mooooooo, mo mooo mo moooo moooo Mooooo, mo mooo mo mooo mooooo mo

the Milky Way.
moo Moooo Moo.




Now this doubloon was of purest, virgin gold, raked somewhere out of the
Moo mooo mooooooo moo mo mooooo, mooooo mooo, moooo moooooooo moo mo moo

heart of gorgeous hills, whence, east and west, over golden sands, the
moooo mo mooooooo moooo, mooooo, mooo moo mooo, mooo mooooo moooo, moo

head-waters of many a Pactolus flows. And though now nailed amidst all
mooo-mooooo mo mooo m Mooooooo moooo. Moo mooooo moo mooooo mooooo moo

the rustiness of iron bolts and the verdigris of copper spikes, yet,
moo moooooooo mo mooo moooo moo moo moooooooo mo mooooo mooooo, moo,

untouchable and immaculate to any foulness, it still preserved its Quito
moooooooooo moo mooooooooo mo moo mooooooo, mo moooo moooooooo moo Moooo

glow. Nor, though placed amongst a ruthless crew and every hour passed
mooo. Moo, mooooo mooooo moooooo m mooooooo mooo moo moooo mooo mooooo

by ruthless hands, and through the livelong nights shrouded with thick
mo mooooooo moooo, moo moooooo moo mooooooo mooooo mooooooo mooo moooo

darkness which might cover any pilfering approach, nevertheless every
mooooooo moooo moooo moooo moo moooooooo mooooooo, mooooooooooo moooo

sunrise found the doubloon where the sunset left it last. For it was
moooooo moooo moo mooooooo moooo moo mooooo mooo mo mooo. Moo mo moo

set apart and sanctified to one awe-striking end; and however wanton
moo moooo moo mooooooooo mo moo moo-mooooooo moo; moo moooooo mooooo

in their sailor ways, one and all, the mariners revered it as the white
mo moooo mooooo mooo, moo moo moo, moo mooooooo moooooo mo mo moo moooo

whale's talisman. Sometimes they talked it over in the weary watch by
moooo'm mooooooo. Moooooooo mooo mooooo mo mooo mo moo moooo moooo mo

night, wondering whose it was to be at last, and whether he would ever
moooo, moooooooo moooo mo moo mo mo mo mooo, moo moooooo mo moooo mooo

live to spend it.
mooo mo moooo mo.




Now those noble golden coins of South America are as medals of the sun
Moo moooo moooo mooooo moooo mo Moooo Moooooo moo mo mooooo mo moo moo

and tropic token-pieces. Here palms, alpacas, and volcanoes; sun's disks
moo mooooo moooo-mooooo. Mooo moooo, moooooo, moo moooooooo; moo'm moooo

and stars; ecliptics, horns-of-plenty, and rich banners waving, are in
moo moooo; moooooooo, moooo-mo-mooooo, moo mooo moooooo mooooo, moo mo

luxuriant profusion stamped; so that the precious gold seems almost to
moooooooo moooooooo moooooo; mo mooo moo mooooooo mooo moooo mooooo mo

derive an added preciousness and enhancing glories, by passing through
mooooo mo moooo mooooooooooo moo moooooooo moooooo, mo moooooo moooooo

those fancy mints, so Spanishly poetic.
moooo moooo moooo, mo Moooooooo mooooo.




It so chanced that the doubloon of the Pequod was a most wealthy example
Mo mo moooooo mooo moo mooooooo mo moo Mooooo moo m mooo moooooo moooooo

of these things. On its round border it bore the letters, REPUBLICA DEL
mo moooo mooooo. Mo moo moooo mooooo mo mooo moo moooooo, MOOOOOOOO MOO

ECUADOR: QUITO. So this bright coin came from a country planted in the
MOOOOOO: MOOOO. Mo mooo mooooo mooo mooo mooo m moooooo moooooo mo moo

middle of the world, and beneath the great equator, and named after it;
mooooo mo moo moooo, moo moooooo moo moooo moooooo, moo moooo moooo mo;

and it had been cast midway up the Andes, in the unwaning clime that
moo mo moo mooo mooo mooooo mo moo Moooo, mo moo mooooooo moooo mooo

knows no autumn. Zoned by those letters you saw the likeness of three
moooo mo mooooo. Moooo mo moooo moooooo moo moo moo mooooooo mo moooo

Andes' summits; from one a flame; a tower on another; on the third a
Moooo' moooooo; mooo moo m moooo; m moooo mo moooooo; mo moo moooo m

crowing cock; while arching over all was a segment of the partitioned
moooooo mooo; moooo moooooo mooo moo moo m moooooo mo moo moooooooooo

zodiac, the signs all marked with their usual cabalistics, and the
mooooo, moo moooo moo mooooo mooo moooo moooo moooooooooo, moo moo

keystone sun entering the equinoctial point at Libra.
mooooooo moo mooooooo moo moooooooooo moooo mo Moooo.




Before this equatorial coin, Ahab, not unobserved by others, was now
Mooooo mooo mooooooooo mooo, Mooo, moo mooooooooo mo mooooo, moo moo

pausing.
moooooo.




"There's something ever egotistical in mountain-tops and towers, and
"Moooo'm moooooooo mooo moooooooooo mo mooooooo-mooo moo mooooo, moo

all other grand and lofty things; look here,--three peaks as proud as
moo moooo moooo moo moooo mooooo; mooo mooo,--moooo moooo mo moooo mo

Lucifer. The firm tower, that is Ahab; the volcano, that is Ahab; the
Moooooo. Moo mooo moooo, mooo mo Mooo; moo moooooo, mooo mo Mooo; moo

courageous, the undaunted, and victorious fowl, that, too, is Ahab; all
mooooooooo, moo moooooooo, moo mooooooooo mooo, mooo, moo, mo Mooo; moo

are Ahab; and this round gold is but the image of the rounder globe,
moo Mooo; moo mooo moooo mooo mo moo moo moooo mo moo moooooo moooo,

which, like a magician's glass, to each and every man in turn but
moooo, mooo m mooooooo'm moooo, mo mooo moo moooo moo mo mooo moo

mirrors back his own mysterious self. Great pains, small gains for those
moooooo mooo moo moo mooooooooo mooo. Moooo moooo, moooo moooo moo moooo

who ask the world to solve them; it cannot solve itself. Methinks now
moo moo moo moooo mo moooo mooo; mo mooooo moooo mooooo. Mooooooo moo

this coined sun wears a ruddy face; but see! aye, he enters the sign
mooo mooooo moo moooo m moooo mooo; moo moo! moo, mo mooooo moo mooo

of storms, the equinox! and but six months before he wheeled out of a
mo mooooo, moo moooooo! moo moo moo mooooo mooooo mo moooooo moo mo m

former equinox at Aries! From storm to storm! So be it, then. Born in
mooooo moooooo mo Moooo! Mooo moooo mo moooo! Mo mo mo, mooo. Mooo mo

throes, 't is fit that man should live in pains and die in pangs! So be
mooooo, 'm mo moo mooo moo mooooo mooo mo moooo moo moo mo moooo! Mo mo

it, then! Here's stout stuff for woe to work on. So be it, then."
mo, mooo! Mooo'm moooo moooo moo moo mo mooo mo. Mo mo mo, mooo."




"No fairy fingers can have pressed the gold, but devil's claws must
"Mo moooo moooooo moo mooo moooooo moo mooo, moo moooo'm moooo mooo

have left their mouldings there since yesterday," murmured Starbuck
mooo mooo moooo moooooooo moooo moooo moooooooo," mooooooo Mooooooo

to himself, leaning against the bulwarks. "The old man seems to read
mo moooooo, moooooo moooooo moo mooooooo. "Moo moo moo moooo mo mooo

Belshazzar's awful writing. I have never marked the coin inspectingly.
Mooooooooo'm moooo moooooo. M mooo moooo mooooo moo mooo mooooooooooo.

He goes below; let me read. A dark valley between three mighty,
Mo mooo moooo; moo mo mooo. M mooo mooooo moooooo moooo mooooo,

heaven-abiding peaks, that almost seem the Trinity, in some faint
mooooo-moooooo moooo, mooo mooooo mooo moo Moooooo, mo mooo moooo

earthly symbol. So in this vale of Death, God girds us round; and over
moooooo mooooo. Mo mo mooo mooo mo Moooo, Moo moooo mo moooo; moo mooo

all our gloom, the sun of Righteousness still shines a beacon and a
moo moo moooo, moo moo mo Moooooooooooo moooo mooooo m mooooo moo m

hope. If we bend down our eyes, the dark vale shows her mouldy soil;
mooo. Mo mo mooo mooo moo mooo, moo mooo mooo moooo moo mooooo mooo;

but if we lift them, the bright sun meets our glance half way, to cheer.
moo mo mo mooo mooo, moo mooooo moo moooo moo mooooo mooo moo, mo moooo.

Yet, oh, the great sun is no fixture; and if, at midnight, we would fain
Moo, mo, moo moooo moo mo mo moooooo; moo mo, mo mooooooo, mo moooo mooo

snatch some sweet solace from him, we gaze for him in vain! This coin
mooooo mooo moooo mooooo mooo moo, mo mooo moo moo mo mooo! Mooo mooo

speaks wisely, mildly, truly, but still sadly to me. I will quit it,
mooooo mooooo, mooooo, moooo, moo moooo moooo mo mo. M mooo mooo mo,

lest Truth shake me falsely."
mooo Moooo moooo mo moooooo."




"There now's the old Mogul," soliloquized Stubb by the try-works, "he's
"Moooo moo'm moo moo Moooo," mooooooooooo Moooo mo moo moo-moooo, "mo'm

been twigging it; and there goes Starbuck from the same, and both with
mooo mooooooo mo; moo moooo mooo Mooooooo mooo moo mooo, moo mooo mooo

faces which I should say might be somewhere within nine fathoms long.
moooo moooo M mooooo moo moooo mo moooooooo mooooo mooo moooooo mooo.

And all from looking at a piece of gold, which did I have it now on
Moo moo mooo moooooo mo m moooo mo mooo, moooo moo M mooo mo moo mo

Negro Hill or in Corlaer's Hook, I'd not look at it very long ere
Moooo Mooo mo mo Moooooo'm Mooo, M'm moo mooo mo mo mooo mooo moo

spending it. Humph! in my poor, insignificant opinion, I regard this as
mooooooo mo. Moooo! mo mo mooo, moooooooooooo moooooo, M mooooo mooo mo

queer. I have seen doubloons before now in my voyagings; your doubloons
moooo. M mooo mooo moooooooo mooooo moo mo mo moooooooo; mooo moooooooo

of old Spain, your doubloons of Peru, your doubloons of Chili, your
mo moo Moooo, mooo moooooooo mo Mooo, mooo moooooooo mo Moooo, mooo

doubloons of Bolivia, your doubloons of Popayan; with plenty of gold
moooooooo mo Moooooo, mooo moooooooo mo Moooooo; mooo mooooo mo mooo

moidores and pistoles, and joes, and half joes, and quarter joes. What
mooooooo moo mooooooo, moo mooo, moo mooo mooo, moo moooooo mooo. Mooo

then should there be in this doubloon of the Equator that is so killing
mooo mooooo moooo mo mo mooo mooooooo mo moo Moooooo mooo mo mo moooooo

wonderful? By Golconda! let me read it once. Halloa! here's signs and
moooooooo? Mo Mooooooo! moo mo mooo mo mooo. Mooooo! mooo'm moooo moo

wonders truly! That, now, is what old Bowditch in his Epitome calls the
moooooo moooo! Mooo, moo, mo mooo moo Mooooooo mo moo Moooooo moooo moo

zodiac, and what my almanac below calls ditto. I'll get the almanac and
mooooo, moo mooo mo moooooo moooo moooo moooo. M'mo moo moo moooooo moo

as I have heard devils can be raised with Daboll's arithmetic, I'll try
mo M mooo moooo mooooo moo mo mooooo mooo Mooooo'm mooooooooo, M'mo moo

my hand at raising a meaning out of these queer curvicues here with
mo mooo mo moooooo m moooooo moo mo moooo moooo moooooooo mooo mooo

the Massachusetts calendar. Here's the book. Let's see now. Signs and
moo Moooooooooooo mooooooo. Mooo'm moo mooo. Moo'm moo moo. Moooo moo

wonders; and the sun, he's always among 'em. Hem, hem, hem; here they
moooooo; moo moo moo, mo'm mooooo moooo 'mo. Moo, moo, moo; mooo mooo

are--here they go--all alive:--Aries, or the Ram; Taurus, or the Bull
moo--mooo mooo mo--moo moooo:--Moooo, mo moo Moo; Mooooo, mo moo Mooo

and Jimimi! here's Gemini himself, or the Twins. Well; the sun he
moo Mooooo! mooo'm Mooooo moooooo, mo moo Moooo. Mooo; moo moo mo

wheels among 'em. Aye, here on the coin he's just crossing the threshold
mooooo moooo 'mo. Moo, mooo mo moo mooo mo'm mooo mooooooo moo moooooooo

between two of twelve sitting-rooms all in a ring. Book! you lie there;
moooooo moo mo mooooo moooooo-moooo moo mo m mooo. Mooo! moo moo moooo;

the fact is, you books must know your places. You'll do to give us the
moo mooo mo, moo moooo mooo mooo mooo mooooo. Moo'mo mo mo mooo mo moo

bare words and facts, but we come in to supply the thoughts. That's my
mooo moooo moo moooo, moo mo mooo mo mo mooooo moo mooooooo. Mooo'm mo

small experience, so far as the Massachusetts calendar, and Bowditch's
moooo mooooooooo, mo moo mo moo Moooooooooooo mooooooo, moo Mooooooo'm

navigator, and Daboll's arithmetic go. Signs and wonders, eh? Pity if
moooooooo, moo Mooooo'm mooooooooo mo. Moooo moo moooooo, mo? Mooo mo

there is nothing wonderful in signs, and significant in wonders! There's
moooo mo moooooo moooooooo mo moooo, moo moooooooooo mo moooooo! Moooo'm

a clue somewhere; wait a bit; hist--hark! By Jove, I have it! Look you,
m mooo moooooooo; mooo m moo; mooo--mooo! Mo Mooo, M mooo mo! Mooo moo,

Doubloon, your zodiac here is the life of man in one round chapter;
Mooooooo, mooo mooooo mooo mo moo mooo mo moo mo moo moooo moooooo;

and now I'll read it off, straight out of the book. Come, Almanack! To
moo moo M'mo mooo mo moo, mooooooo moo mo moo mooo. Mooo, Mooooooo! Mo

begin: there's Aries, or the Ram--lecherous dog, he begets us; then,
moooo: moooo'm Moooo, mo moo Moo--moooooooo moo, mo mooooo mo; mooo,

Taurus, or the Bull--he bumps us the first thing; then Gemini, or the
Mooooo, mo moo Mooo--mo moooo mo moo moooo moooo; mooo Mooooo, mo moo

Twins--that is, Virtue and Vice; we try to reach Virtue, when lo! comes
Moooo--mooo mo, Mooooo moo Mooo; mo moo mo moooo Mooooo, mooo mo! moooo

Cancer the Crab, and drags us back; and here, going from Virtue, Leo,
Mooooo moo Mooo, moo moooo mo mooo; moo mooo, moooo mooo Mooooo, Moo,

a roaring Lion, lies in the path--he gives a few fierce bites and surly
m moooooo Mooo, mooo mo moo mooo--mo moooo m moo mooooo moooo moo moooo

dabs with his paw; we escape, and hail Virgo, the Virgin! that's our
mooo mooo moo moo; mo mooooo, moo mooo Moooo, moo Mooooo! mooo'm moo

first love; we marry and think to be happy for aye, when pop comes
moooo mooo; mo moooo moo moooo mo mo moooo moo moo, mooo moo moooo

Libra, or the Scales--happiness weighed and found wanting; and while we
Moooo, mo moo Mooooo--moooooooo moooooo moo moooo moooooo; moo moooo mo

are very sad about that, Lord! how we suddenly jump, as Scorpio, or the
moo mooo moo moooo mooo, Mooo! moo mo mooooooo mooo, mo Moooooo, mo moo

Scorpion, stings us in the rear; we are curing the wound, when whang
Mooooooo, mooooo mo mo moo mooo; mo moo mooooo moo moooo, mooo moooo

come the arrows all round; Sagittarius, or the Archer, is amusing
mooo moo mooooo moo moooo; Moooooooooo, mo moo Mooooo, mo moooooo

himself. As we pluck out the shafts, stand aside! here's the
moooooo. Mo mo moooo moo moo mooooo, moooo moooo! mooo'm moo

battering-ram, Capricornus, or the Goat; full tilt, he comes rushing,
moooooooo-moo, Moooooooooo, mo moo Mooo; mooo mooo, mo moooo moooooo,

and headlong we are tossed; when Aquarius, or the Water-bearer, pours
moo mooooooo mo moo mooooo; mooo Mooooooo, mo moo Moooo-mooooo, moooo

out his whole deluge and drowns us; and to wind up with Pisces, or the
moo moo moooo mooooo moo mooooo mo; moo mo mooo mo mooo Mooooo, mo moo

Fishes, we sleep. There's a sermon now, writ in high heaven, and the
Mooooo, mo moooo. Moooo'm m mooooo moo, mooo mo mooo mooooo, moo moo

sun goes through it every year, and yet comes out of it all alive and
moo mooo moooooo mo moooo mooo, moo moo moooo moo mo mo moo moooo moo

hearty. Jollily he, aloft there, wheels through toil and trouble; and
mooooo. Moooooo mo, moooo moooo, mooooo moooooo mooo moo moooooo; moo

so, alow here, does jolly Stubb. Oh, jolly's the word for aye! Adieu,
mo, mooo mooo, mooo moooo Moooo. Mo, moooo'm moo mooo moo moo! Moooo,

Doubloon! But stop; here comes little King-Post; dodge round the
Mooooooo! Moo mooo; mooo moooo mooooo Mooo-Mooo; moooo moooo moo

try-works, now, and let's hear what he'll have to say. There; he's
moo-moooo, moo, moo moo'm mooo mooo mo'mo mooo mo moo. Moooo; mo'm

before it; he'll out with something presently. So, so; he's beginning."
mooooo mo; mo'mo moo mooo moooooooo moooooooo. Mo, mo; mo'm moooooooo."




"I see nothing here, but a round thing made of gold, and whoever raises
"M moo moooooo mooo, moo m moooo moooo mooo mo mooo, moo moooooo mooooo

a certain whale, this round thing belongs to him. So, what's all this
m moooooo moooo, mooo moooo moooo moooooo mo moo. Mo, mooo'm moo mooo

staring been about? It is worth sixteen dollars, that's true; and at
moooooo mooo moooo? Mo mo moooo moooooo moooooo, mooo'm mooo; moo mo

two cents the cigar, that's nine hundred and sixty cigars. I won't smoke
moo moooo moo moooo, mooo'm mooo moooooo moo moooo mooooo. M moo'm moooo

dirty pipes like Stubb, but I like cigars, and here's nine hundred and
moooo moooo mooo Moooo, moo M mooo mooooo, moo mooo'm mooo moooooo moo

sixty of them; so here goes Flask aloft to spy 'em out."
moooo mo mooo; mo mooo mooo Moooo moooo mo moo 'mo moo."




"Shall I call that wise or foolish, now; if it be really wise it has a
"Moooo M mooo mooo mooo mo moooooo, moo; mo mo mo mooooo mooo mo moo m

foolish look to it; yet, if it be really foolish, then has it a sort
moooooo mooo mo mo; moo, mo mo mo mooooo moooooo, mooo moo mo m mooo

of wiseish look to it. But, avast; here comes our old Manxman--the old
mo moooooo mooo mo mo. Moo, moooo; mooo moooo moo moo Moooooo--moo moo

hearse-driver, he must have been, that is, before he took to the sea. He
mooooo-mooooo, mo mooo mooo mooo, mooo mo, mooooo mo mooo mo moo moo. Mo

luffs up before the doubloon; halloa, and goes round on the other side
moooo mo mooooo moo mooooooo; mooooo, moo mooo moooo mo moo moooo mooo

of the mast; why, there's a horse-shoe nailed on that side; and now he's
mo moo mooo; moo, moooo'm m moooo-mooo mooooo mo mooo mooo; moo moo mo'm

back again; what does that mean? Hark! he's muttering--voice like an old
mooo moooo; mooo mooo mooo mooo? Mooo! mo'm moooooooo--moooo mooo mo moo

worn-out coffee-mill. Prick ears, and listen!"
mooo-moo mooooo-mooo. Moooo mooo, moo mooooo!"




"If the White Whale be raised, it must be in a month and a day, when
"Mo moo Moooo Moooo mo mooooo, mo mooo mo mo m moooo moo m moo, mooo

the sun stands in some one of these signs. I've studied signs, and know
moo moo mooooo mo mooo moo mo moooo moooo. M'mo moooooo moooo, moo mooo

their marks; they were taught me two score years ago, by the old witch
moooo moooo; mooo mooo mooooo mo moo moooo moooo moo, mo moo moo moooo

in Copenhagen. Now, in what sign will the sun then be? The horse-shoe
mo Mooooooooo. Moo, mo mooo mooo mooo moo moo mooo mo? Moo moooo-mooo

sign; for there it is, right opposite the gold. And what's the
mooo; moo moooo mo mo, moooo mooooooo moo mooo. Moo mooo'm moo

horse-shoe sign? The lion is the horse-shoe sign--the roaring and
moooo-mooo mooo? Moo mooo mo moo moooo-mooo mooo--moo moooooo moo

devouring lion. Ship, old ship! my old head shakes to think of thee."
moooooooo mooo. Mooo, moo mooo! mo moo mooo mooooo mo moooo mo mooo."




"There's another rendering now; but still one text. All sorts of men
"Moooo'm moooooo moooooooo moo; moo moooo moo mooo. Moo moooo mo moo

in one kind of world, you see. Dodge again! here comes Queequeg--all
mo moo mooo mo moooo, moo moo. Moooo moooo! mooo moooo Mooooooo--moo

tattooing--looks like the signs of the Zodiac himself. What says the
moooooooo--moooo mooo moo moooo mo moo Mooooo moooooo. Mooo mooo moo

Cannibal? As I live he's comparing notes; looking at his thigh bone;
Mooooooo? Mo M mooo mo'm moooooooo moooo; moooooo mo moo moooo mooo;

thinks the sun is in the thigh, or in the calf, or in the bowels, I
mooooo moo moo mo mo moo moooo, mo mo moo mooo, mo mo moo mooooo, M

suppose, as the old women talk Surgeon's Astronomy in the back country.
moooooo, mo moo moo moooo mooo Moooooo'm Moooooooo mo moo mooo moooooo.

And by Jove, he's found something there in the vicinity of his thigh--I
Moo mo Mooo, mo'm moooo moooooooo moooo mo moo mooooooo mo moo moooo--M

guess it's Sagittarius, or the Archer. No: he don't know what to make
moooo mo'm Moooooooooo, mo moo Mooooo. Mo: mo moo'm mooo mooo mo mooo

of the doubloon; he takes it for an old button off some king's trowsers.
mo moo mooooooo; mo moooo mo moo mo moo mooooo moo mooo mooo'm mooooooo.

But, aside again! here comes that ghost-devil, Fedallah; tail coiled out
Moo, moooo moooo! mooo moooo mooo moooo-moooo, Mooooooo; mooo mooooo moo

of sight as usual, oakum in the toes of his pumps as usual. What does he
mo moooo mo moooo, moooo mo moo mooo mo moo moooo mo moooo. Mooo mooo mo

say, with that look of his? Ah, only makes a sign to the sign and bows
moo, mooo mooo mooo mo moo? Mo, mooo moooo m mooo mo moo mooo moo mooo

himself; there is a sun on the coin--fire worshipper, depend upon it.
moooooo; moooo mo m moo mo moo mooo--mooo mooooooooo, mooooo mooo mo.

Ho! more and more. This way comes Pip--poor boy! would he had died,
Mo! mooo moo mooo. Mooo moo moooo Moo--mooo moo! moooo mo moo mooo,

or I; he's half horrible to me. He too has been watching all of these
mo M; mo'm mooo mooooooo mo mo. Mo moo moo mooo mooooooo moo mo moooo

interpreters--myself included--and look now, he comes to read, with that
mooooooooooo--mooooo mooooooo--moo mooo moo, mo moooo mo mooo, mooo mooo

unearthly idiot face. Stand away again and hear him. Hark!"
moooooooo moooo mooo. Moooo mooo moooo moo mooo moo. Mooo!"




"I look, you look, he looks; we look, ye look, they look."
"M mooo, moo mooo, mo moooo; mo mooo, mo mooo, mooo mooo."




"Upon my soul, he's been studying Murray's Grammar! Improving his mind,
"Mooo mo mooo, mo'm mooo mooooooo Mooooo'm Moooooo! Moooooooo moo mooo,

poor fellow! But what's that he says now--hist!"
mooo mooooo! Moo mooo'm mooo mo mooo moo--mooo!"




"I look, you look, he looks; we look, ye look, they look."
"M mooo, moo mooo, mo moooo; mo mooo, mo mooo, mooo mooo."




"Why, he's getting it by heart--hist! again."
"Moo, mo'm moooooo mo mo moooo--mooo! moooo."




"I look, you look, he looks; we look, ye look, they look."
"M mooo, moo mooo, mo moooo; mo mooo, mo mooo, mooo mooo."




"Well, that's funny."
"Mooo, mooo'm moooo."




"And I, you, and he; and we, ye, and they, are all bats; and I'm a crow,
"Moo M, moo, moo mo; moo mo, mo, moo mooo, moo moo mooo; moo M'm m mooo,

especially when I stand a'top of this pine tree here. Caw! caw! caw!
mooooooooo mooo M moooo m'moo mo mooo mooo mooo mooo. Moo! moo! moo!

caw! caw! caw! Ain't I a crow? And where's the scare-crow? There he
moo! moo! moo! Moo'm M m mooo? Moo moooo'm moo moooo-mooo? Moooo mo

stands; two bones stuck into a pair of old trowsers, and two more poked
mooooo; moo moooo moooo mooo m mooo mo moo mooooooo, moo moo mooo moooo

into the sleeves of an old jacket."
mooo moo moooooo mo mo moo mooooo."




"Wonder if he means me?--complimentary!--poor lad!--I could go hang
"Mooooo mo mo moooo mo?--moooooooooooo!--mooo moo!--M moooo mo mooo

myself. Any way, for the present, I'll quit Pip's vicinity. I can stand
mooooo. Moo moo, moo moo moooooo, M'mo mooo Moo'm mooooooo. M moo moooo

the rest, for they have plain wits; but he's too crazy-witty for my
moo mooo, moo mooo mooo moooo mooo; moo mo'm moo moooo-moooo moo mo

sanity. So, so, I leave him muttering."
mooooo. Mo, mo, M moooo moo moooooooo."




"Here's the ship's navel, this doubloon here, and they are all on fire
"Mooo'm moo mooo'm moooo, mooo mooooooo mooo, moo mooo moo moo mo mooo

to unscrew it. But, unscrew your navel, and what's the consequence? Then
mo moooooo mo. Moo, moooooo mooo moooo, moo mooo'm moo moooooooooo? Mooo

again, if it stays here, that is ugly, too, for when aught's nailed to
moooo, mo mo moooo mooo, mooo mo mooo, moo, moo mooo moooo'm mooooo mo

the mast it's a sign that things grow desperate. Ha, ha! old Ahab!
moo mooo mo'm m mooo mooo mooooo mooo moooooooo. Mo, mo! moo Mooo!

the White Whale; he'll nail ye! This is a pine tree. My father, in old
moo Moooo Moooo; mo'mo mooo mo! Mooo mo m mooo mooo. Mo mooooo, mo moo

Tolland county, cut down a pine tree once, and found a silver ring grown
Moooooo mooooo, moo mooo m mooo mooo mooo, moo moooo m mooooo mooo moooo

over in it; some old darkey's wedding ring. How did it get there? And
mooo mo mo; mooo moo mooooo'm moooooo mooo. Moo moo mo moo moooo? Moo

so they'll say in the resurrection, when they come to fish up this old
mo mooo'mo moo mo moo mooooooooooo, mooo mooo mooo mo mooo mo mooo moo

mast, and find a doubloon lodged in it, with bedded oysters for the
mooo, moo mooo m mooooooo mooooo mo mo, mooo mooooo moooooo moo moo

shaggy bark. Oh, the gold! the precious, precious, gold! the green
mooooo mooo. Mo, moo mooo! moo mooooooo, mooooooo, mooo! moo moooo

miser'll hoard ye soon! Hish! hish! God goes 'mong the worlds
moooo'mo moooo mo mooo! Mooo! mooo! Moo mooo 'mooo moo mooooo

blackberrying. Cook! ho, cook! and cook us! Jenny! hey, hey, hey, hey,
moooooooooooo. Mooo! mo, mooo! moo mooo mo! Moooo! moo, moo, moo, moo,

hey, Jenny, Jenny! and get your hoe-cake done!"
moo, Moooo, Moooo! moo moo mooo moo-mooo mooo!"










CHAPTER 100. Leg and Arm.
MOOOOOO moo. Moo moo Moo.




The Pequod, of Nantucket, Meets the Samuel Enderby, of London.
Moo Mooooo, mo Moooooooo, Moooo moo Mooooo Moooooo, mo Mooooo.







"Ship, ahoy! Hast seen the White Whale?"
"Mooo, mooo! Mooo mooo moo Moooo Moooo?"




So cried Ahab, once more hailing a ship showing English colours, bearing
Mo moooo Mooo, mooo mooo moooooo m mooo moooooo Moooooo moooooo, moooooo

down under the stern. Trumpet to mouth, the old man was standing in his
mooo moooo moo moooo. Moooooo mo moooo, moo moo moo moo mooooooo mo moo

hoisted quarter-boat, his ivory leg plainly revealed to the stranger
moooooo moooooo-mooo, moo moooo moo moooooo mooooooo mo moo mooooooo

captain, who was carelessly reclining in his own boat's bow. He was
moooooo, moo moo mooooooooo moooooooo mo moo moo mooo'm moo. Mo moo

a darkly-tanned, burly, good-natured, fine-looking man, of sixty or
m mooooo-mooooo, moooo, mooo-moooooo, mooo-moooooo moo, mo moooo mo

thereabouts, dressed in a spacious roundabout, that hung round him in
moooooooooo, moooooo mo m mooooooo mooooooooo, mooo mooo moooo moo mo

festoons of blue pilot-cloth; and one empty arm of this jacket streamed
mooooooo mo mooo moooo-moooo; moo moo moooo moo mo mooo mooooo mooooooo

behind him like the broidered arm of a hussar's surcoat.
mooooo moo mooo moo moooooooo moo mo m mooooo'm moooooo.




"Hast seen the White Whale!"
"Mooo mooo moo Moooo Moooo!"




"See you this?" and withdrawing it from the folds that had hidden it,
"Moo moo mooo?" moo moooooooooo mo mooo moo moooo mooo moo mooooo mo,

he held up a white arm of sperm whale bone, terminating in a wooden head
mo mooo mo m moooo moo mo moooo moooo mooo, moooooooooo mo m mooooo mooo

like a mallet.
mooo m mooooo.




"Man my boat!" cried Ahab, impetuously, and tossing about the oars near
"Moo mo mooo!" moooo Mooo, moooooooooo, moo moooooo moooo moo mooo mooo

him--"Stand by to lower!"
moo--"Moooo mo mo moooo!"




In less than a minute, without quitting his little craft, he and his
Mo mooo mooo m mooooo, moooooo mooooooo moo mooooo moooo, mo moo moo

crew were dropped to the water, and were soon alongside of the stranger.
mooo mooo moooooo mo moo moooo, moo mooo mooo moooooooo mo moo mooooooo.

But here a curious difficulty presented itself. In the excitement of the
Moo mooo m moooooo mooooooooo moooooooo mooooo. Mo moo mooooooooo mo moo

moment, Ahab had forgotten that since the loss of his leg he had never
mooooo, Mooo moo moooooooo mooo moooo moo mooo mo moo moo mo moo moooo

once stepped on board of any vessel at sea but his own, and then it was
mooo moooooo mo moooo mo moo mooooo mo moo moo moo moo, moo mooo mo moo

always by an ingenious and very handy mechanical contrivance peculiar to
mooooo mo mo moooooooo moo mooo moooo mooooooooo moooooooooo mooooooo mo

the Pequod, and a thing not to be rigged and shipped in any other
moo Mooooo, moo m moooo moo mo mo mooooo moo moooooo mo moo moooo

vessel at a moment's warning. Now, it is no very easy matter
mooooo mo m mooooo'm moooooo. Moo, mo mo mo mooo mooo mooooo

for anybody--except those who are almost hourly used to it, like
moo moooooo--mooooo moooo moo moo mooooo mooooo mooo mo mo, mooo

whalemen--to clamber up a ship's side from a boat on the open sea; for
mooooooo--mo moooooo mo m mooo'm mooo mooo m mooo mo moo mooo moo; moo

the great swells now lift the boat high up towards the bulwarks, and
moo moooo mooooo moo mooo moo mooo mooo mo moooooo moo mooooooo, moo

then instantaneously drop it half way down to the kelson. So, deprived
mooo moooooooooooooo mooo mo mooo moo mooo mo moo mooooo. Mo, mooooooo

of one leg, and the strange ship of course being altogether unsupplied
mo moo moo, moo moo moooooo mooo mo mooooo moooo mooooooooo mooooooooo

with the kindly invention, Ahab now found himself abjectly reduced to a
mooo moo mooooo moooooooo, Mooo moo moooo moooooo mooooooo moooooo mo m

clumsy landsman again; hopelessly eyeing the uncertain changeful height
mooooo mooooooo moooo; mooooooooo mooooo moo moooooooo moooooooo mooooo

he could hardly hope to attain.
mo moooo mooooo mooo mo mooooo.




It has before been hinted, perhaps, that every little untoward
Mo moo mooooo mooo mooooo, moooooo, mooo moooo mooooo mooooooo

circumstance that befell him, and which indirectly sprang from his
mooooooooooo mooo mooooo moo, moo moooo mooooooooo mooooo mooo moo

luckless mishap, almost invariably irritated or exasperated Ahab. And
mooooooo mooooo, mooooo mooooooooo moooooooo mo moooooooooo Mooo. Moo

in the present instance, all this was heightened by the sight of the
mo moo moooooo mooooooo, moo mooo moo mooooooooo mo moo moooo mo moo

two officers of the strange ship, leaning over the side, by the
moo mooooooo mo moo moooooo mooo, moooooo mooo moo mooo, mo moo

perpendicular ladder of nailed cleets there, and swinging towards him a
moooooooooooo mooooo mo mooooo mooooo moooo, moo mooooooo moooooo moo m

pair of tastefully-ornamented man-ropes; for at first they did not seem
mooo mo mooooooooo-mooooooooo moo-moooo; moo mo moooo mooo moo moo mooo

to bethink them that a one-legged man must be too much of a cripple to
mo moooooo mooo mooo m moo-mooooo moo mooo mo moo mooo mo m moooooo mo

use their sea bannisters. But this awkwardness only lasted a minute,
moo moooo moo mooooooooo. Moo mooo moooooooooo mooo mooooo m mooooo,

because the strange captain, observing at a glance how affairs stood,
moooooo moo moooooo moooooo, moooooooo mo m mooooo moo moooooo moooo,

cried out, "I see, I see!--avast heaving there! Jump, boys, and swing
moooo moo, "M moo, M moo!--moooo moooooo moooo! Mooo, mooo, moo moooo

over the cutting-tackle."
mooo moo moooooo-mooooo."




As good luck would have it, they had had a whale alongside a day or two
Mo mooo mooo moooo mooo mo, mooo moo moo m moooo moooooooo m moo mo moo

previous, and the great tackles were still aloft, and the massive curved
mooooooo, moo moo moooo moooooo mooo moooo moooo, moo moo moooooo mooooo

blubber-hook, now clean and dry, was still attached to the end. This
moooooo-mooo, moo moooo moo moo, moo moooo mooooooo mo moo moo. Mooo

was quickly lowered to Ahab, who at once comprehending it all, slid his
moo moooooo moooooo mo Mooo, moo mo mooo moooooooooooo mo moo, mooo moo

solitary thigh into the curve of the hook (it was like sitting in the
mooooooo moooo mooo moo moooo mo moo mooo (mo moo mooo moooooo mo moo

fluke of an anchor, or the crotch of an apple tree), and then giving the
moooo mo mo mooooo, mo moo mooooo mo mo moooo mooo), moo mooo mooooo moo

word, held himself fast, and at the same time also helped to hoist his
mooo, mooo moooooo mooo, moo mo moo mooo mooo mooo mooooo mo moooo moo

own weight, by pulling hand-over-hand upon one of the running parts of
moo mooooo, mo moooooo mooo-mooo-mooo mooo moo mo moo moooooo moooo mo

the tackle. Soon he was carefully swung inside the high bulwarks, and
moo mooooo. Mooo mo moo moooooooo moooo mooooo moo mooo mooooooo, moo

gently landed upon the capstan head. With his ivory arm frankly thrust
mooooo mooooo mooo moo moooooo mooo. Mooo moo moooo moo moooooo mooooo

forth in welcome, the other captain advanced, and Ahab, putting out his
moooo mo moooooo, moo moooo moooooo mooooooo, moo Mooo, moooooo moo moo

ivory leg, and crossing the ivory arm (like two sword-fish blades)
moooo moo, moo mooooooo moo moooo moo (mooo moo moooo-mooo mooooo)

cried out in his walrus way, "Aye, aye, hearty! let us shake bones
moooo moo mo moo mooooo moo, "Moo, moo, mooooo! moo mo moooo moooo

together!--an arm and a leg!--an arm that never can shrink, d'ye
mooooooo!--mo moo moo m moo!--mo moo mooo moooo moo mooooo, m'mo

see; and a leg that never can run. Where did'st thou see the White
moo; moo m moo mooo moooo moo moo. Moooo moo'mo mooo moo moo Moooo

Whale?--how long ago?"
Moooo?--moo mooo moo?"




"The White Whale," said the Englishman, pointing his ivory arm towards
"Moo Moooo Moooo," mooo moo Mooooooooo, mooooooo moo moooo moo moooooo

the East, and taking a rueful sight along it, as if it had been a
moo Mooo, moo mooooo m mooooo moooo moooo mo, mo mo mo moo mooo m

telescope; "there I saw him, on the Line, last season."
moooooooo; "moooo M moo moo, mo moo Mooo, mooo mooooo."




"And he took that arm off, did he?" asked Ahab, now sliding down from
"Moo mo mooo mooo moo moo, moo mo?" moooo Mooo, moo moooooo mooo mooo

the capstan, and resting on the Englishman's shoulder, as he did so.
moo moooooo, moo moooooo mo moo Mooooooooo'm mooooooo, mo mo moo mo.




"Aye, he was the cause of it, at least; and that leg, too?"
"Moo, mo moo moo moooo mo mo, mo moooo; moo mooo moo, moo?"




"Spin me the yarn," said Ahab; "how was it?"
"Mooo mo moo mooo," mooo Mooo; "moo moo mo?"




"It was the first time in my life that I ever cruised on the Line,"
"Mo moo moo moooo mooo mo mo mooo mooo M mooo moooooo mo moo Mooo,"

began the Englishman. "I was ignorant of the White Whale at that time.
moooo moo Mooooooooo. "M moo mooooooo mo moo Moooo Moooo mo mooo mooo.

Well, one day we lowered for a pod of four or five whales, and my boat
Mooo, moo moo mo moooooo moo m moo mo mooo mo mooo mooooo, moo mo mooo

fastened to one of them; a regular circus horse he was, too, that went
mooooooo mo moo mo mooo; m moooooo mooooo moooo mo moo, moo, mooo mooo

milling and milling round so, that my boat's crew could only trim dish,
moooooo moo moooooo moooo mo, mooo mo mooo'm mooo moooo mooo mooo mooo,

by sitting all their sterns on the outer gunwale. Presently up breaches
mo moooooo moo moooo mooooo mo moo moooo moooooo. Moooooooo mo mooooooo

from the bottom of the sea a bouncing great whale, with a milky-white
mooo moo mooooo mo moo moo m mooooooo moooo moooo, mooo m moooo-moooo

head and hump, all crows' feet and wrinkles."
mooo moo mooo, moo moooo' mooo moo mooooooo."




"It was he, it was he!" cried Ahab, suddenly letting out his suspended
"Mo moo mo, mo moo mo!" moooo Mooo, mooooooo moooooo moo moo moooooooo

breath.
mooooo.




"And harpoons sticking in near his starboard fin."
"Moo mooooooo mooooooo mo mooo moo moooooooo moo."




"Aye, aye--they were mine--MY irons," cried Ahab, exultingly--"but on!"
"Moo, moo--mooo mooo mooo--MO moooo," moooo Mooo, mooooooooo--"moo mo!"




"Give me a chance, then," said the Englishman, good-humoredly. "Well,
"Mooo mo m mooooo, mooo," mooo moo Mooooooooo, mooo-moooooooo. "Mooo,

this old great-grandfather, with the white head and hump, runs all afoam
mooo moo moooo-moooooooooo, mooo moo moooo mooo moo mooo, mooo moo moooo

into the pod, and goes to snapping furiously at my fast-line!
mooo moo moo, moo mooo mo mooooooo moooooooo mo mo mooo-mooo!




"Aye, I see!--wanted to part it; free the fast-fish--an old trick--I
"Moo, M moo!--mooooo mo mooo mo; mooo moo mooo-mooo--mo moo moooo--M

know him."
mooo moo."




"How it was exactly," continued the one-armed commander, "I do not know;
"Moo mo moo moooooo," moooooooo moo moo-moooo moooooooo, "M mo moo mooo;

but in biting the line, it got foul of his teeth, caught there somehow;
moo mo mooooo moo mooo, mo moo mooo mo moo moooo, mooooo moooo moooooo;

but we didn't know it then; so that when we afterwards pulled on the
moo mo mooo'm mooo mo mooo; mo mooo mooo mo mooooooooo mooooo mo moo

line, bounce we came plump on to his hump! instead of the other whale's;
mooo, mooooo mo mooo moooo mo mo moo mooo! moooooo mo moo moooo moooo'm;

that went off to windward, all fluking. Seeing how matters stood, and
mooo mooo moo mo mooooooo, moo moooooo. Mooooo moo moooooo moooo, moo

what a noble great whale it was--the noblest and biggest I ever saw,
mooo m moooo moooo moooo mo moo--moo moooooo moo moooooo M mooo moo,

sir, in my life--I resolved to capture him, spite of the boiling rage
moo, mo mo mooo--M mooooooo mo moooooo moo, moooo mo moo moooooo mooo

he seemed to be in. And thinking the hap-hazard line would get loose, or
mo mooooo mo mo mo. Moo mooooooo moo moo-mooooo mooo moooo moo moooo, mo

the tooth it was tangled to might draw (for I have a devil of a boat's
moo moooo mo moo moooooo mo moooo mooo (moo M mooo m moooo mo m mooo'm

crew for a pull on a whale-line); seeing all this, I say, I jumped
mooo moo m mooo mo m moooo-mooo); mooooo moo mooo, M moo, M mooooo

into my first mate's boat--Mr. Mounttop's here (by the way,
mooo mo moooo mooo'm mooo--Mo. Mooooooo'm mooo (mo moo moo,

Captain--Mounttop; Mounttop--the captain);--as I was saying, I jumped
Moooooo--Mooooooo; Mooooooo--moo moooooo);--mo M moo mooooo, M mooooo

into Mounttop's boat, which, d'ye see, was gunwale and gunwale
mooo Mooooooo'm mooo, moooo, m'mo moo, moo moooooo moo moooooo

with mine, then; and snatching the first harpoon, let this old
mooo mooo, mooo; moo moooooooo moo moooo moooooo, moo mooo moo

great-grandfather have it. But, Lord, look you, sir--hearts and souls
moooo-moooooooooo mooo mo. Moo, Mooo, mooo moo, moo--mooooo moo moooo

alive, man--the next instant, in a jiff, I was blind as a bat--both
moooo, moo--moo mooo moooooo, mo m mooo, M moo moooo mo m moo--mooo

eyes out--all befogged and bedeadened with black foam--the whale's tail
mooo moo--moo mooooooo moo mooooooooo mooo moooo mooo--moo moooo'm mooo

looming straight up out of it, perpendicular in the air, like a marble
moooooo mooooooo mo moo mo mo, moooooooooooo mo moo moo, mooo m mooooo

steeple. No use sterning all, then; but as I was groping at midday, with
moooooo. Mo moo mooooooo moo, mooo; moo mo M moo moooooo mo mooooo, mooo

a blinding sun, all crown-jewels; as I was groping, I say, after the
m mooooooo moo, moo moooo-mooooo; mo M moo moooooo, M moo, moooo moo

second iron, to toss it overboard--down comes the tail like a Lima
mooooo mooo, mo mooo mo moooooooo--mooo moooo moo mooo mooo m Mooo

tower, cutting my boat in two, leaving each half in splinters; and,
moooo, moooooo mo mooo mo moo, moooooo mooo mooo mo moooooooo; moo,

flukes first, the white hump backed through the wreck, as though it was
mooooo moooo, moo moooo mooo mooooo moooooo moo moooo, mo mooooo mo moo

all chips. We all struck out. To escape his terrible flailings, I seized
moo moooo. Mo moo mooooo moo. Mo mooooo moo mooooooo moooooooo, M mooooo

hold of my harpoon-pole sticking in him, and for a moment clung to that
mooo mo mo moooooo-mooo mooooooo mo moo, moo moo m mooooo moooo mo mooo

like a sucking fish. But a combing sea dashed me off, and at the same
mooo m moooooo mooo. Moo m moooooo moo mooooo mo moo, moo mo moo mooo

instant, the fish, taking one good dart forwards, went down like a
moooooo, moo mooo, mooooo moo mooo mooo mooooooo, mooo mooo mooo m

flash; and the barb of that cursed second iron towing along near me
moooo; moo moo mooo mo mooo mooooo mooooo mooo mooooo moooo mooo mo

caught me here" (clapping his hand just below his shoulder); "yes,
mooooo mo mooo" (mooooooo moo mooo mooo moooo moo mooooooo); "moo,

caught me just here, I say, and bore me down to Hell's flames, I was
mooooo mo mooo mooo, M moo, moo mooo mo mooo mo Mooo'm mooooo, M moo

thinking; when, when, all of a sudden, thank the good God, the barb ript
mooooooo; mooo, mooo, moo mo m mooooo, moooo moo mooo Moo, moo mooo mooo

its way along the flesh--clear along the whole length of my arm--came
moo moo moooo moo moooo--moooo moooo moo moooo mooooo mo mo moo--mooo

out nigh my wrist, and up I floated;--and that gentleman there will tell
moo mooo mo moooo, moo mo M moooooo;--moo mooo moooooooo moooo mooo mooo

you the rest (by the way, captain--Dr. Bunger, ship's surgeon: Bunger,
moo moo mooo (mo moo moo, moooooo--Mo. Mooooo, mooo'm moooooo: Mooooo,

my lad,--the captain). Now, Bunger boy, spin your part of the yarn."
mo moo,--moo moooooo). Moo, Mooooo moo, mooo mooo mooo mo moo mooo."




The professional gentleman thus familiarly pointed out, had been all the
Moo mooooooooooo moooooooo mooo mooooooooo moooooo moo, moo mooo moo moo

time standing near them, with nothing specific visible, to denote his
mooo mooooooo mooo mooo, mooo moooooo mooooooo moooooo, mo mooooo moo

gentlemanly rank on board. His face was an exceedingly round but sober
moooooooooo mooo mo moooo. Moo mooo moo mo moooooooooo moooo moo moooo

one; he was dressed in a faded blue woollen frock or shirt, and patched
moo; mo moo moooooo mo m moooo mooo moooooo moooo mo moooo, moo moooooo

trowsers; and had thus far been dividing his attention between a
mooooooo; moo moo mooo moo mooo mooooooo moo moooooooo moooooo m

marlingspike he held in one hand, and a pill-box held in the other,
mooooooooooo mo mooo mo moo mooo, moo m mooo-moo mooo mo moo moooo,

occasionally casting a critical glance at the ivory limbs of the two
mooooooooooo moooooo m mooooooo mooooo mo moo moooo moooo mo moo moo

crippled captains. But, at his superior's introduction of him to Ahab,
mooooooo mooooooo. Moo, mo moo mooooooo'm mooooooooooo mo moo mo Mooo,

he politely bowed, and straightway went on to do his captain's bidding.
mo mooooooo moooo, moo moooooooooo mooo mo mo mo moo moooooo'm moooooo.




"It was a shocking bad wound," began the whale-surgeon; "and, taking my
"Mo moo m mooooooo moo moooo," moooo moo moooo-moooooo; "moo, mooooo mo

advice, Captain Boomer here, stood our old Sammy--"
mooooo, Moooooo Mooooo mooo, moooo moo moo Moooo--"




"Samuel Enderby is the name of my ship," interrupted the one-armed
"Mooooo Moooooo mo moo mooo mo mo mooo," moooooooooo moo moo-moooo

captain, addressing Ahab; "go on, boy."
moooooo, mooooooooo Mooo; "mo mo, moo."




"Stood our old Sammy off to the northward, to get out of the blazing hot
"Moooo moo moo Moooo moo mo moo moooooooo, mo moo moo mo moo moooooo moo

weather there on the Line. But it was no use--I did all I could; sat up
moooooo moooo mo moo Mooo. Moo mo moo mo moo--M moo moo M moooo; moo mo

with him nights; was very severe with him in the matter of diet--"
mooo moo mooooo; moo mooo mooooo mooo moo mo moo mooooo mo mooo--"




"Oh, very severe!" chimed in the patient himself; then suddenly altering
"Mo, mooo mooooo!" mooooo mo moo moooooo moooooo; mooo mooooooo mooooooo

his voice, "Drinking hot rum toddies with me every night, till he
moo moooo, "Mooooooo moo moo moooooo mooo mo moooo moooo, mooo mo

couldn't see to put on the bandages; and sending me to bed, half seas
mooooo'm moo mo moo mo moo mooooooo; moo moooooo mo mo moo, mooo mooo

over, about three o'clock in the morning. Oh, ye stars! he sat up with
mooo, moooo moooo m'moooo mo moo moooooo. Mo, mo moooo! mo moo mo mooo

me indeed, and was very severe in my diet. Oh! a great watcher, and very
mo mooooo, moo moo mooo mooooo mo mo mooo. Mo! m moooo moooooo, moo mooo

dietetically severe, is Dr. Bunger. (Bunger, you dog, laugh out! why
mooooooooooo mooooo, mo Mo. Mooooo. (Mooooo, moo moo, moooo moo! moo

don't ye? You know you're a precious jolly rascal.) But, heave ahead,
moo'm mo? Moo mooo moo'mo m mooooooo moooo mooooo.) Moo, moooo moooo,

boy, I'd rather be killed by you than kept alive by any other man."
moo, M'm mooooo mo mooooo mo moo mooo mooo moooo mo moo moooo moo."




"My captain, you must have ere this perceived, respected sir"--said the
"Mo moooooo, moo mooo mooo moo mooo moooooooo, moooooooo moo"--mooo moo

imperturbable godly-looking Bunger, slightly bowing to Ahab--"is apt to
moooooooooooo moooo-moooooo Mooooo, mooooooo mooooo mo Mooo--"mo moo mo

be facetious at times; he spins us many clever things of that sort. But
mo moooooooo mo moooo; mo moooo mo mooo mooooo mooooo mo mooo mooo. Moo

I may as well say--en passant, as the French remark--that I myself--that
M moo mo mooo moo--mo moooooo, mo moo Mooooo mooooo--mooo M mooooo--mooo

is to say, Jack Bunger, late of the reverend clergy--am a strict total
mo mo moo, Mooo Mooooo, mooo mo moo mooooooo mooooo--mo m mooooo moooo

abstinence man; I never drink--"
mooooooooo moo; M moooo moooo--"




"Water!" cried the captain; "he never drinks it; it's a sort of fits to
"Moooo!" moooo moo moooooo; "mo moooo mooooo mo; mo'm m mooo mo mooo mo

him; fresh water throws him into the hydrophobia; but go on--go on with
moo; moooo moooo mooooo moo mooo moo moooooooooo; moo mo mo--mo mo mooo

the arm story."
moo moo moooo."




"Yes, I may as well," said the surgeon, coolly. "I was about observing,
"Moo, M moo mo mooo," mooo moo moooooo, mooooo. "M moo moooo moooooooo,

sir, before Captain Boomer's facetious interruption, that spite of my
moo, mooooo Moooooo Mooooo'm moooooooo mooooooooooo, mooo moooo mo mo

best and severest endeavors, the wound kept getting worse and worse; the
mooo moo mooooooo moooooooo, moo moooo mooo moooooo moooo moo moooo; moo

truth was, sir, it was as ugly gaping wound as surgeon ever saw; more
moooo moo, moo, mo moo mo mooo mooooo moooo mo moooooo mooo moo; mooo

than two feet and several inches long. I measured it with the lead line.
mooo moo mooo moo moooooo mooooo mooo. M mooooooo mo mooo moo mooo mooo.

In short, it grew black; I knew what was threatened, and off it came.
Mo moooo, mo mooo moooo; M mooo mooo moo mooooooooo, moo moo mo mooo.

But I had no hand in shipping that ivory arm there; that thing is
Moo M moo mo mooo mo mooooooo mooo moooo moo moooo; mooo moooo mo

against all rule"--pointing at it with the marlingspike--"that is the
moooooo moo mooo"--mooooooo mo mo mooo moo mooooooooooo--"mooo mo moo

captain's work, not mine; he ordered the carpenter to make it; he had
moooooo'm mooo, moo mooo; mo moooooo moo moooooooo mo mooo mo; mo moo

that club-hammer there put to the end, to knock some one's brains
mooo mooo-mooooo moooo moo mo moo moo, mo moooo mooo moo'm mooooo

out with, I suppose, as he tried mine once. He flies into diabolical
moo mooo, M moooooo, mo mo moooo mooo mooo. Mo moooo mooo mooooooooo

passions sometimes. Do ye see this dent, sir"--removing his hat, and
mooooooo moooooooo. Mo mo moo mooo mooo, moo"--mooooooo moo moo, moo

brushing aside his hair, and exposing a bowl-like cavity in his skull,
mooooooo moooo moo mooo, moo mooooooo m mooo-mooo mooooo mo moo moooo,

but which bore not the slightest scarry trace, or any token of ever
moo moooo mooo moo moo moooooooo mooooo moooo, mo moo moooo mo mooo

having been a wound--"Well, the captain there will tell you how that
mooooo mooo m moooo--"Mooo, moo moooooo moooo mooo mooo moo moo mooo

came here; he knows."
mooo mooo; mo moooo."




"No, I don't," said the captain, "but his mother did; he was born with
"Mo, M moo'm," mooo moo moooooo, "moo moo mooooo moo; mo moo mooo mooo

it. Oh, you solemn rogue, you--you Bunger! was there ever such another
mo. Mo, moo mooooo moooo, moo--moo Mooooo! moo moooo mooo mooo moooooo

Bunger in the watery world? Bunger, when you die, you ought to die in
Mooooo mo moo mooooo moooo? Mooooo, mooo moo moo, moo moooo mo moo mo

pickle, you dog; you should be preserved to future ages, you rascal."
mooooo, moo moo; moo mooooo mo moooooooo mo mooooo mooo, moo mooooo."




"What became of the White Whale?" now cried Ahab, who thus far had been
"Mooo mooooo mo moo Moooo Moooo?" moo moooo Mooo, moo mooo moo moo mooo

impatiently listening to this by-play between the two Englishmen.
moooooooooo moooooooo mo mooo mo-mooo moooooo moo moo Mooooooooo.




"Oh!" cried the one-armed captain, "oh, yes! Well; after he sounded,
"Mo!" moooo moo moo-moooo moooooo, "mo, moo! Mooo; moooo mo moooooo,

we didn't see him again for some time; in fact, as I before hinted, I
mo mooo'm moo moo moooo moo mooo mooo; mo mooo, mo M mooooo mooooo, M

didn't then know what whale it was that had served me such a trick, till
mooo'm mooo mooo mooo moooo mo moo mooo moo mooooo mo mooo m moooo, mooo

some time afterwards, when coming back to the Line, we heard about Moby
mooo mooo mooooooooo, mooo mooooo mooo mo moo Mooo, mo moooo moooo Mooo

Dick--as some call him--and then I knew it was he."
Mooo--mo mooo mooo moo--moo mooo M mooo mo moo mo."




"Did'st thou cross his wake again?"
"Moo'mo mooo moooo moo mooo moooo?"




"Twice."
"Moooo."




"But could not fasten?"
"Moo moooo moo mooooo?"




"Didn't want to try to: ain't one limb enough? What should I do without
"Mooo'm mooo mo moo mo: moo'm moo mooo mooooo? Mooo mooooo M mo moooooo

this other arm? And I'm thinking Moby Dick doesn't bite so much as he
mooo moooo moo? Moo M'm mooooooo Mooo Mooo moooo'm mooo mo mooo mo mo

swallows."
mooooooo."




"Well, then," interrupted Bunger, "give him your left arm for bait to
"Mooo, mooo," moooooooooo Mooooo, "mooo moo mooo mooo moo moo mooo mo

get the right. Do you know, gentlemen"--very gravely and mathematically
moo moo moooo. Mo moo mooo, moooooooo"--mooo moooooo moo mooooooooooooo

bowing to each Captain in succession--"Do you know, gentlemen, that the
mooooo mo mooo Moooooo mo mooooooooo--"Mo moo mooo, moooooooo, mooo moo

digestive organs of the whale are so inscrutably constructed by Divine
moooooooo mooooo mo moo moooo moo mo moooooooooo moooooooooo mo Mooooo

Providence, that it is quite impossible for him to completely digest
Mooooooooo, mooo mo mo moooo mooooooooo moo moo mo mooooooooo mooooo

even a man's arm? And he knows it too. So that what you take for the
mooo m moo'm moo? Moo mo moooo mo moo. Mo mooo mooo moo mooo moo moo

White Whale's malice is only his awkwardness. For he never means
Moooo Moooo'm mooooo mo mooo moo moooooooooo. Moo mo moooo moooo

to swallow a single limb; he only thinks to terrify by feints. But
mo moooooo m mooooo mooo; mo mooo mooooo mo moooooo mo mooooo. Moo

sometimes he is like the old juggling fellow, formerly a patient of mine
moooooooo mo mo mooo moo moo mooooooo mooooo, mooooooo m moooooo mo mooo

in Ceylon, that making believe swallow jack-knives, once upon a time let
mo Mooooo, mooo mooooo moooooo moooooo mooo-mooooo, mooo mooo m mooo moo

one drop into him in good earnest, and there it stayed for a twelvemonth
moo mooo mooo moo mo mooo moooooo, moo moooo mo mooooo moo m moooooooooo

or more; when I gave him an emetic, and he heaved it up in small tacks,
mo mooo; mooo M mooo moo mo mooooo, moo mo mooooo mo mo mo moooo moooo,

d'ye see. No possible way for him to digest that jack-knife, and fully
m'mo moo. Mo mooooooo moo moo moo mo mooooo mooo mooo-moooo, moo moooo

incorporate it into his general bodily system. Yes, Captain Boomer, if
moooooooooo mo mooo moo moooooo mooooo mooooo. Moo, Moooooo Mooooo, mo

you are quick enough about it, and have a mind to pawn one arm for the
moo moo moooo mooooo moooo mo, moo mooo m mooo mo mooo moo moo moo moo

sake of the privilege of giving decent burial to the other, why in that
mooo mo moo moooooooo mo mooooo mooooo mooooo mo moo moooo, moo mo mooo

case the arm is yours; only let the whale have another chance at you
mooo moo moo mo moooo; mooo moo moo moooo mooo moooooo mooooo mo moo

shortly, that's all."
moooooo, mooo'm moo."




"No, thank ye, Bunger," said the English Captain, "he's welcome to the
"Mo, moooo mo, Mooooo," mooo moo Moooooo Moooooo, "mo'm moooooo mo moo

arm he has, since I can't help it, and didn't know him then; but not to
moo mo moo, moooo M moo'm mooo mo, moo mooo'm mooo moo mooo; moo moo mo

another one. No more White Whales for me; I've lowered for him once, and
moooooo moo. Mo mooo Moooo Mooooo moo mo; M'mo moooooo moo moo mooo, moo

that has satisfied me. There would be great glory in killing him, I know
mooo moo moooooooo mo. Moooo moooo mo moooo moooo mo moooooo moo, M mooo

that; and there is a ship-load of precious sperm in him, but, hark ye,
mooo; moo moooo mo m mooo-mooo mo mooooooo moooo mo moo, moo, mooo mo,

he's best let alone; don't you think so, Captain?"--glancing at the
mo'm mooo moo moooo; moo'm moo moooo mo, Moooooo?"--mooooooo mo moo

ivory leg.
moooo moo.




"He is. But he will still be hunted, for all that. What is best let
"Mo mo. Moo mo mooo moooo mo mooooo, moo moo mooo. Mooo mo mooo moo

alone, that accursed thing is not always what least allures. He's all a
moooo, mooo mooooooo moooo mo moo mooooo mooo moooo moooooo. Mo'm moo m

magnet! How long since thou saw'st him last? Which way heading?"
mooooo! Moo mooo moooo mooo moo'mo moo mooo? Moooo moo moooooo?"




"Bless my soul, and curse the foul fiend's," cried Bunger, stoopingly
"Moooo mo mooo, moo moooo moo mooo moooo'm," moooo Mooooo, mooooooooo

walking round Ahab, and like a dog, strangely snuffing; "this man's
moooooo moooo Mooo, moo mooo m moo, moooooooo mooooooo; "mooo moo'm

blood--bring the thermometer!--it's at the boiling point!--his pulse
moooo--moooo moo moooooooooo!--mo'm mo moo moooooo moooo!--moo moooo

makes these planks beat!--sir!"--taking a lancet from his pocket, and
moooo moooo mooooo mooo!--moo!"--mooooo m mooooo mooo moo mooooo, moo

drawing near to Ahab's arm.
moooooo mooo mo Mooo'm moo.




"Avast!" roared Ahab, dashing him against the bulwarks--"Man the boat!
"Moooo!" mooooo Mooo, moooooo moo moooooo moo mooooooo--"Moo moo mooo!

Which way heading?"
Moooo moo moooooo?"




"Good God!" cried the English Captain, to whom the question was put.
"Mooo Moo!" moooo moo Moooooo Moooooo, mo mooo moo mooooooo moo moo.

"What's the matter? He was heading east, I think.--Is your Captain
"Mooo'm moo mooooo? Mo moo moooooo mooo, M moooo.--Mo mooo Moooooo

crazy?" whispering Fedallah.
moooo?" mooooooooo Mooooooo.




But Fedallah, putting a finger on his lip, slid over the bulwarks to
Moo Mooooooo, moooooo m mooooo mo moo moo, mooo mooo moo mooooooo mo

take the boat's steering oar, and Ahab, swinging the cutting-tackle
mooo moo mooo'm mooooooo moo, moo Mooo, mooooooo moo moooooo-mooooo

towards him, commanded the ship's sailors to stand by to lower.
moooooo moo, moooooooo moo mooo'm moooooo mo moooo mo mo moooo.




In a moment he was standing in the boat's stern, and the Manilla men
Mo m mooooo mo moo mooooooo mo moo mooo'm moooo, moo moo Moooooo moo

were springing to their oars. In vain the English Captain hailed him.
mooo moooooooo mo moooo mooo. Mo mooo moo Moooooo Moooooo mooooo moo.

With back to the stranger ship, and face set like a flint to his own,
Mooo mooo mo moo mooooooo mooo, moo mooo moo mooo m moooo mo moo moo,

Ahab stood upright till alongside of the Pequod.
Mooo moooo moooooo mooo moooooooo mo moo Mooooo.










CHAPTER 101. The Decanter.
MOOOOOO moo. Moo Mooooooo.







Ere the English ship fades from sight, be it set down here, that
Moo moo Moooooo mooo moooo mooo moooo, mo mo moo mooo mooo, mooo

she hailed from London, and was named after the late Samuel Enderby,
moo mooooo mooo Mooooo, moo moo moooo moooo moo mooo Mooooo Moooooo,

merchant of that city, the original of the famous whaling house of
mooooooo mo mooo mooo, moo mooooooo mo moo mooooo moooooo moooo mo

Enderby & Sons; a house which in my poor whaleman's opinion, comes not
Moooooo & Mooo; m moooo moooo mo mo mooo mooooooo'm moooooo, moooo moo

far behind the united royal houses of the Tudors and Bourbons, in point
moo mooooo moo mooooo moooo mooooo mo moo Mooooo moo Mooooooo, mo moooo

of real historical interest. How long, prior to the year of our
mo mooo mooooooooo mooooooo. Moo mooo, moooo mo moo mooo mo moo

Lord 1775, this great whaling house was in existence, my numerous
Mooo mooo, mooo moooo moooooo moooo moo mo moooooooo, mo mooooooo

fish-documents do not make plain; but in that year (1775) it fitted
mooo-moooooooo mo moo mooo moooo; moo mo mooo mooo (mooo) mo mooooo

out the first English ships that ever regularly hunted the Sperm Whale;
moo moo moooo Moooooo moooo mooo mooo moooooooo mooooo moo Moooo Moooo;

though for some score of years previous (ever since 1726) our valiant
mooooo moo mooo moooo mo moooo mooooooo (mooo moooo mooo) moo moooooo

Coffins and Maceys of Nantucket and the Vineyard had in large fleets
Moooooo moo Mooooo mo Moooooooo moo moo Mooooooo moo mo moooo mooooo

pursued that Leviathan, but only in the North and South Atlantic: not
moooooo mooo Moooooooo, moo mooo mo moo Moooo moo Moooo Mooooooo: moo

elsewhere. Be it distinctly recorded here, that the Nantucketers were
moooooooo. Mo mo mooooooooo mooooooo mooo, mooo moo Mooooooooooo mooo

the first among mankind to harpoon with civilized steel the great Sperm
moo moooo moooo moooooo mo moooooo mooo moooooooo moooo moo moooo Moooo

Whale; and that for half a century they were the only people of the
Moooo; moo mooo moo mooo m moooooo mooo mooo moo mooo mooooo mo moo

whole globe who so harpooned him.
moooo moooo moo mo moooooooo moo.




In 1778, a fine ship, the Amelia, fitted out for the express purpose,
Mo mooo, m mooo mooo, moo Mooooo, mooooo moo moo moo moooooo moooooo,

and at the sole charge of the vigorous Enderbys, boldly rounded Cape
moo mo moo mooo mooooo mo moo mooooooo Mooooooo, mooooo moooooo Mooo

Horn, and was the first among the nations to lower a whale-boat of any
Mooo, moo moo moo moooo moooo moo moooooo mo moooo m moooo-mooo mo moo

sort in the great South Sea. The voyage was a skilful and lucky one;
mooo mo moo moooo Moooo Moo. Moo mooooo moo m moooooo moo moooo moo;

and returning to her berth with her hold full of the precious sperm, the
moo moooooooo mo moo moooo mooo moo mooo mooo mo moo mooooooo moooo, moo

Amelia's example was soon followed by other ships, English and American,
Mooooo'm moooooo moo mooo mooooooo mo moooo moooo, Moooooo moo Mooooooo,

and thus the vast Sperm Whale grounds of the Pacific were thrown open.
moo mooo moo mooo Moooo Moooo moooooo mo moo Moooooo mooo mooooo mooo.

But not content with this good deed, the indefatigable house again
Moo moo moooooo mooo mooo mooo mooo, moo moooooooooooo moooo moooo

bestirred itself: Samuel and all his Sons--how many, their mother only
moooooooo mooooo: Mooooo moo moo moo Mooo--moo mooo, moooo mooooo mooo

knows--and under their immediate auspices, and partly, I think, at their
moooo--moo moooo moooo moooooooo mooooooo, moo mooooo, M moooo, mo moooo

expense, the British government was induced to send the sloop-of-war
moooooo, moo Moooooo mooooooooo moo moooooo mo mooo moo moooo-mo-moo

Rattler on a whaling voyage of discovery into the South Sea. Commanded
Moooooo mo m moooooo mooooo mo moooooooo mooo moo Moooo Moo. Moooooooo

by a naval Post-Captain, the Rattler made a rattling voyage of it, and
mo m moooo Mooo-Moooooo, moo Moooooo mooo m mooooooo mooooo mo mo, moo

did some service; how much does not appear. But this is not all. In
moo mooo moooooo; moo mooo mooo moo mooooo. Moo mooo mo moo moo. Mo

1819, the same house fitted out a discovery whale ship of their own, to
mooo, moo mooo moooo mooooo moo m moooooooo moooo mooo mo moooo moo, mo

go on a tasting cruise to the remote waters of Japan. That ship--well
mo mo m moooooo mooooo mo moo mooooo mooooo mo Moooo. Mooo mooo--mooo

called the "Syren"--made a noble experimental cruise; and it was thus
mooooo moo "Moooo"--mooo m moooo mooooooooooo mooooo; moo mo moo mooo

that the great Japanese Whaling Ground first became generally known.
mooo moo moooo Mooooooo Moooooo Mooooo moooo mooooo moooooooo moooo.

The Syren in this famous voyage was commanded by a Captain Coffin, a
Moo Moooo mo mooo mooooo mooooo moo moooooooo mo m Moooooo Mooooo, m

Nantucketer.
Moooooooooo.




All honour to the Enderbies, therefore, whose house, I think, exists to
Moo mooooo mo moo Moooooooo, moooooooo, moooo moooo, M moooo, mooooo mo

the present day; though doubtless the original Samuel must long ago have
moo moooooo moo; mooooo moooooooo moo mooooooo Mooooo mooo mooo moo mooo

slipped his cable for the great South Sea of the other world.
moooooo moo moooo moo moo moooo Moooo Moo mo moo moooo moooo.




The ship named after him was worthy of the honour, being a very fast
Moo mooo moooo moooo moo moo mooooo mo moo mooooo, moooo m mooo mooo

sailer and a noble craft every way. I boarded her once at midnight
mooooo moo m moooo moooo moooo moo. M moooooo moo mooo mo mooooooo

somewhere off the Patagonian coast, and drank good flip down in the
moooooooo moo moo Mooooooooo moooo, moo moooo mooo mooo mooo mo moo

forecastle. It was a fine gam we had, and they were all trumps--every
mooooooooo. Mo moo m mooo moo mo moo, moo mooo mooo moo mooooo--moooo

soul on board. A short life to them, and a jolly death. And that fine
mooo mo moooo. M moooo mooo mo mooo, moo m moooo moooo. Moo mooo mooo

gam I had--long, very long after old Ahab touched her planks with his
moo M moo--mooo, mooo mooo moooo moo Mooo moooooo moo mooooo mooo moo

ivory heel--it minds me of the noble, solid, Saxon hospitality of that
moooo mooo--mo moooo mo mo moo moooo, moooo, Moooo moooooooooo mo mooo

ship; and may my parson forget me, and the devil remember me, if I ever
mooo; moo moo mo mooooo mooooo mo, moo moo moooo mooooooo mo, mo M mooo

lose sight of it. Flip? Did I say we had flip? Yes, and we flipped it
mooo moooo mo mo. Mooo? Moo M moo mo moo mooo? Moo, moo mo moooooo mo

at the rate of ten gallons the hour; and when the squall came (for it's
mo moo mooo mo moo moooooo moo mooo; moo mooo moo mooooo mooo (moo mo'm

squally off there by Patagonia), and all hands--visitors and all--were
moooooo moo moooo mo Moooooooo), moo moo moooo--mooooooo moo moo--mooo

called to reef topsails, we were so top-heavy that we had to swing each
mooooo mo mooo mooooooo, mo mooo mo moo-moooo mooo mo moo mo moooo mooo

other aloft in bowlines; and we ignorantly furled the skirts of our
moooo moooo mo mooooooo; moo mo mooooooooo mooooo moo mooooo mo moo

jackets into the sails, so that we hung there, reefed fast in the
moooooo mooo moo moooo, mo mooo mo mooo moooo, mooooo mooo mo moo

howling gale, a warning example to all drunken tars. However, the masts
moooooo mooo, m moooooo moooooo mo moo moooooo mooo. Moooooo, moo moooo

did not go overboard; and by and by we scrambled down, so sober, that we
moo moo mo moooooooo; moo mo moo mo mo moooooooo mooo, mo moooo, mooo mo

had to pass the flip again, though the savage salt spray bursting down
moo mo mooo moo mooo moooo, mooooo moo mooooo mooo moooo mooooooo mooo

the forecastle scuttle, rather too much diluted and pickled it to my
moo mooooooooo moooooo, mooooo moo mooo moooooo moo moooooo mo mo mo

taste.
moooo.




The beef was fine--tough, but with body in it. They said it was
Moo mooo moo mooo--moooo, moo mooo mooo mo mo. Mooo mooo mo moo

bull-beef; others, that it was dromedary beef; but I do not know, for
mooo-mooo; mooooo, mooo mo moo moooooooo mooo; moo M mo moo mooo, moo

certain, how that was. They had dumplings too; small, but substantial,
moooooo, moo mooo moo. Mooo moo moooooooo moo; moooo, moo moooooooooo,

symmetrically globular, and indestructible dumplings. I fancied that you
moooooooooooo mooooooo, moo mooooooooooooo moooooooo. M moooooo mooo moo

could feel them, and roll them about in you after they were swallowed.
moooo mooo mooo, moo mooo mooo moooo mo moo moooo mooo mooo moooooooo.

If you stooped over too far forward, you risked their pitching out
Mo moo moooooo mooo moo moo moooooo, moo mooooo moooo mooooooo moo

of you like billiard-balls. The bread--but that couldn't be helped;
mo moo mooo mooooooo-moooo. Moo moooo--moo mooo mooooo'm mo mooooo;

besides, it was an anti-scorbutic; in short, the bread contained the
moooooo, mo moo mo mooo-moooooooo; mo moooo, moo moooo moooooooo moo

only fresh fare they had. But the forecastle was not very light, and it
mooo moooo mooo mooo moo. Moo moo mooooooooo moo moo mooo moooo, moo mo

was very easy to step over into a dark corner when you ate it. But all
moo mooo mooo mo mooo mooo mooo m mooo mooooo mooo moo moo mo. Moo moo

in all, taking her from truck to helm, considering the dimensions of the
mo moo, mooooo moo mooo moooo mo mooo, moooooooooo moo mooooooooo mo moo

cook's boilers, including his own live parchment boilers; fore and aft,
mooo'm moooooo, moooooooo moo moo mooo moooooooo moooooo; mooo moo moo,

I say, the Samuel Enderby was a jolly ship; of good fare and plenty;
M moo, moo Mooooo Moooooo moo m moooo mooo; mo mooo mooo moo mooooo;

fine flip and strong; crack fellows all, and capital from boot heels to
mooo mooo moo mooooo; moooo moooooo moo, moo moooooo mooo mooo moooo mo

hat-band.
moo-mooo.




But why was it, think ye, that the Samuel Enderby, and some other
Moo moo moo mo, moooo mo, mooo moo Mooooo Moooooo, moo mooo moooo

English whalers I know of--not all though--were such famous, hospitable
Moooooo moooooo M mooo mo--moo moo mooooo--mooo mooo mooooo, mooooooooo

ships; that passed round the beef, and the bread, and the can, and the
moooo; mooo mooooo moooo moo mooo, moo moo moooo, moo moo moo, moo moo

joke; and were not soon weary of eating, and drinking, and laughing?
mooo; moo mooo moo mooo moooo mo mooooo, moo mooooooo, moo mooooooo?

I will tell you. The abounding good cheer of these English whalers
M mooo mooo moo. Moo moooooooo mooo moooo mo moooo Moooooo moooooo

is matter for historical research. Nor have I been at all sparing of
mo mooooo moo mooooooooo mooooooo. Moo mooo M mooo mo moo moooooo mo

historical whale research, when it has seemed needed.
mooooooooo moooo mooooooo, mooo mo moo mooooo mooooo.




The English were preceded in the whale fishery by the Hollanders,
Moo Moooooo mooo mooooooo mo moo moooo moooooo mo moo Mooooooooo,

Zealanders, and Danes; from whom they derived many terms still extant
Mooooooooo, moo Moooo; mooo mooo mooo moooooo mooo moooo moooo mooooo

in the fishery; and what is yet more, their fat old fashions,
mo moo moooooo; moo mooo mo moo mooo, moooo moo moo mooooooo,

touching plenty to eat and drink. For, as a general thing, the English
mooooooo mooooo mo moo moo moooo. Moo, mo m moooooo moooo, moo Moooooo

merchant-ship scrimps her crew; but not so the English whaler. Hence, in
mooooooo-mooo moooooo moo mooo; moo moo mo moo Moooooo mooooo. Moooo, mo

the English, this thing of whaling good cheer is not normal and natural,
moo Moooooo, mooo moooo mo moooooo mooo moooo mo moo mooooo moo moooooo,

but incidental and particular; and, therefore, must have some special
moo mooooooooo moo mooooooooo; moo, moooooooo, mooo mooo mooo moooooo

origin, which is here pointed out, and will be still further elucidated.
mooooo, moooo mo mooo moooooo moo, moo mooo mo moooo moooooo mooooooooo.




During my researches in the Leviathanic histories, I stumbled upon an
Mooooo mo mooooooooo mo moo Moooooooooo moooooooo, M mooooooo mooo mo

ancient Dutch volume, which, by the musty whaling smell of it, I
moooooo Moooo mooooo, moooo, mo moo moooo moooooo moooo mo mo, M

knew must be about whalers. The title was, "Dan Coopman," wherefore I
mooo mooo mo moooo moooooo. Moo moooo moo, "Moo Moooooo," moooooooo M

concluded that this must be the invaluable memoirs of some Amsterdam
moooooooo mooo mooo mooo mo moo mooooooooo moooooo mo mooo Moooooooo

cooper in the fishery, as every whale ship must carry its cooper. I was
mooooo mo moo moooooo, mo moooo moooo mooo mooo moooo moo mooooo. M moo

reinforced in this opinion by seeing that it was the production of one
mooooooooo mo mooo moooooo mo mooooo mooo mo moo moo mooooooooo mo moo

"Fitz Swackhammer." But my friend Dr. Snodhead, a very learned man,
"Mooo Moooooooooo." Moo mo mooooo Mo. Mooooooo, m mooo moooooo moo,

professor of Low Dutch and High German in the college of Santa Claus and
moooooooo mo Moo Moooo moo Mooo Mooooo mo moo moooooo mo Moooo Moooo moo

St. Pott's, to whom I handed the work for translation, giving him a box
Mo. Mooo'm, mo mooo M mooooo moo mooo moo moooooooooo, mooooo moo m moo

of sperm candles for his trouble--this same Dr. Snodhead, so soon as he
mo moooo moooooo moo moo moooooo--mooo mooo Mo. Mooooooo, mo mooo mo mo

spied the book, assured me that "Dan Coopman" did not mean "The Cooper,"
moooo moo mooo, moooooo mo mooo "Moo Moooooo" moo moo mooo "Moo Mooooo,"

but "The Merchant." In short, this ancient and learned Low Dutch book
moo "Moo Mooooooo." Mo moooo, mooo moooooo moo moooooo Moo Moooo mooo

treated of the commerce of Holland; and, among other subjects, contained
moooooo mo moo mooooooo mo Moooooo; moo, moooo moooo mooooooo, moooooooo

a very interesting account of its whale fishery. And in this chapter it
m mooo moooooooooo moooooo mo moo moooo moooooo. Moo mo mooo moooooo mo

was, headed, "Smeer," or "Fat," that I found a long detailed list of the
moo, mooooo, "Moooo," mo "Moo," mooo M moooo m mooo mooooooo mooo mo moo

outfits for the larders and cellars of 180 sail of Dutch whalemen; from
moooooo moo moo moooooo moo moooooo mo moo mooo mo Moooo mooooooo; mooo

which list, as translated by Dr. Snodhead, I transcribe the following:
moooo mooo, mo mooooooooo mo Mo. Mooooooo, M mooooooooo moo moooooooo:




400,000 lbs. of beef. 60,000 lbs. Friesland pork. 150,000 lbs. of stock
moo,moo moo. mo mooo. mo,moo moo. Moooooooo mooo. moo,moo moo. mo moooo

fish. 550,000 lbs. of biscuit. 72,000 lbs. of soft bread. 2,800 firkins
mooo. moo,moo moo. mo moooooo. mo,moo moo. mo mooo moooo. m,moo moooooo

of butter. 20,000 lbs. Texel & Leyden cheese. 144,000 lbs. cheese
mo mooooo. mo,moo moo. Moooo & Mooooo mooooo. moo,moo moo. mooooo

(probably an inferior article). 550 ankers of Geneva. 10,800 barrels of
(mooooooo mo mooooooo moooooo). moo mooooo mo Mooooo. mo,moo moooooo mo

beer.
mooo.




Most statistical tables are parchingly dry in the reading; not so in
Mooo moooooooooo mooooo moo mooooooooo moo mo moo moooooo; moo mo mo

the present case, however, where the reader is flooded with whole pipes,
moo moooooo mooo, moooooo, moooo moo mooooo mo moooooo mooo moooo moooo,

barrels, quarts, and gills of good gin and good cheer.
moooooo, mooooo, moo moooo mo mooo moo moo mooo moooo.




At the time, I devoted three days to the studious digesting of all
Mo moo mooo, M moooooo moooo mooo mo moo mooooooo moooooooo mo moo

this beer, beef, and bread, during which many profound thoughts were
mooo mooo, mooo, moo moooo, mooooo moooo mooo mooooooo mooooooo mooo

incidentally suggested to me, capable of a transcendental and Platonic
mooooooooooo moooooooo mo mo, moooooo mo m mooooooooooooo moo Mooooooo

application; and, furthermore, I compiled supplementary tables of my
moooooooooo; moo, moooooooooo, M mooooooo moooooooooooo mooooo mo mo

own, touching the probable quantity of stock-fish, etc., consumed by
moo, mooooooo moo mooooooo mooooooo mo moooo-mooo, moo., mooooooo mo

every Low Dutch harpooneer in that ancient Greenland and Spitzbergen
moooo Moo Moooo mooooooooo mo mooo moooooo Moooooooo moo Moooooooooo

whale fishery. In the first place, the amount of butter, and Texel and
moooo moooooo. Mo moo moooo moooo, moo mooooo mo mooooo, moo Moooo moo

Leyden cheese consumed, seems amazing. I impute it, though, to their
Mooooo mooooo mooooooo, moooo moooooo. M mooooo mo, mooooo, mo moooo

naturally unctuous natures, being rendered still more unctuous by the
moooooooo mooooooo moooooo, moooo mooooooo moooo mooo mooooooo mo moo

nature of their vocation, and especially by their pursuing their game
mooooo mo moooo mooooooo, moo mooooooooo mo moooo mooooooo moooo mooo

in those frigid Polar Seas, on the very coasts of that Esquimaux country
mo moooo mooooo Moooo Mooo, mo moo mooo mooooo mo mooo Moooooooo moooooo

where the convivial natives pledge each other in bumpers of train oil.
moooo moo moooooooo moooooo mooooo mooo moooo mo moooooo mo moooo moo.




The quantity of beer, too, is very large, 10,800 barrels. Now, as those
Moo mooooooo mo mooo, moo, mo mooo moooo, mo,moo moooooo. Moo, mo moooo

polar fisheries could only be prosecuted in the short summer of that
moooo moooooooo moooo mooo mo mooooooooo mo moo moooo mooooo mo mooo

climate, so that the whole cruise of one of these Dutch whalemen,
moooooo, mo mooo moo moooo mooooo mo moo mo moooo Moooo mooooooo,

including the short voyage to and from the Spitzbergen sea, did not much
moooooooo moo moooo mooooo mo moo mooo moo Moooooooooo moo, moo moo mooo

exceed three months, say, and reckoning 30 men to each of their fleet
mooooo moooo mooooo, moo, moo moooooooo mo moo mo mooo mo moooo moooo

of 180 sail, we have 5,400 Low Dutch seamen in all; therefore, I say,
mo moo mooo, mo mooo m,moo Moo Moooo mooooo mo moo; moooooooo, M moo,

we have precisely two barrels of beer per man, for a twelve weeks'
mo mooo moooooooo moo moooooo mo mooo moo moo, moo m mooooo moooo'

allowance, exclusive of his fair proportion of that 550 ankers of gin.
moooooooo, moooooooo mo moo mooo mooooooooo mo mooo moo mooooo mo moo.

Now, whether these gin and beer harpooneers, so fuddled as one might
Moo, moooooo moooo moo moo mooo moooooooooo, mo moooooo mo moo moooo

fancy them to have been, were the right sort of men to stand up in
moooo mooo mo mooo mooo, mooo moo moooo mooo mo moo mo moooo mo mo

a boat's head, and take good aim at flying whales; this would seem
m mooo'm mooo, moo mooo mooo moo mo mooooo mooooo; mooo moooo mooo

somewhat improbable. Yet they did aim at them, and hit them too. But
mooooooo mooooooooo. Moo mooo moo moo mo mooo, moo moo mooo moo. Moo

this was very far North, be it remembered, where beer agrees well with
mooo moo mooo moo Moooo, mo mo mooooooooo, moooo mooo mooooo mooo mooo

the constitution; upon the Equator, in our southern fishery, beer would
moo mooooooooooo; mooo moo Moooooo, mo moo mooooooo moooooo, mooo moooo

be apt to make the harpooneer sleepy at the mast-head and boozy in his
mo moo mo mooo moo mooooooooo mooooo mo moo mooo-mooo moo moooo mo moo

boat; and grievous loss might ensue to Nantucket and New Bedford.
mooo; moo mooooooo mooo moooo moooo mo Moooooooo moo Moo Moooooo.




But no more; enough has been said to show that the old Dutch whalers
Moo mo mooo; mooooo moo mooo mooo mo mooo mooo moo moo Moooo moooooo

of two or three centuries ago were high livers; and that the English
mo moo mo moooo moooooooo moo mooo mooo mooooo; moo mooo moo Moooooo

whalers have not neglected so excellent an example. For, say they, when
moooooo mooo moo moooooooo mo moooooooo mo moooooo. Moo, moo mooo, mooo

cruising in an empty ship, if you can get nothing better out of the
mooooooo mo mo moooo mooo, mo moo moo moo moooooo mooooo moo mo moo

world, get a good dinner out of it, at least. And this empties the
moooo, moo m mooo mooooo moo mo mo, mo moooo. Moo mooo moooooo moo

decanter.
mooooooo.










CHAPTER 102. A Bower in the Arsacides.
MOOOOOO moo. M Moooo mo moo Moooooooo.







Hitherto, in descriptively treating of the Sperm Whale, I have chiefly
Mooooooo, mo moooooooooooo mooooooo mo moo Moooo Moooo, M mooo moooooo

dwelt upon the marvels of his outer aspect; or separately and in detail
moooo mooo moo moooooo mo moo moooo mooooo; mo mooooooooo moo mo mooooo

upon some few interior structural features. But to a large and thorough
mooo mooo moo mooooooo mooooooooo mooooooo. Moo mo m moooo moo mooooooo

sweeping comprehension of him, it behooves me now to unbutton him still
mooooooo moooooooooooo mo moo, mo mooooooo mo moo mo mooooooo moo moooo

further, and untagging the points of his hose, unbuckling his garters,
moooooo, moo moooooooo moo mooooo mo moo mooo, mooooooooo moo moooooo,

and casting loose the hooks and the eyes of the joints of his innermost
moo moooooo moooo moo moooo moo moo mooo mo moo mooooo mo moo moooooooo

bones, set him before you in his ultimatum; that is to say, in his
moooo, moo moo mooooo moo mo moo moooooooo; mooo mo mo moo, mo moo

unconditional skeleton.
moooooooooooo mooooooo.




But how now, Ishmael? How is it, that you, a mere oarsman in the
Moo moo moo, Moooooo? Moo mo mo, mooo moo, m mooo moooooo mo moo

fishery, pretend to know aught about the subterranean parts of the
moooooo, moooooo mo mooo moooo moooo moo mooooooooooo moooo mo moo

whale? Did erudite Stubb, mounted upon your capstan, deliver lectures
moooo? Moo moooooo Moooo, moooooo mooo mooo moooooo, moooooo mooooooo

on the anatomy of the Cetacea; and by help of the windlass, hold up a
mo moo moooooo mo moo Moooooo; moo mo mooo mo moo mooooooo, mooo mo m

specimen rib for exhibition? Explain thyself, Ishmael. Can you land
mooooooo moo moo mooooooooo? Moooooo moooooo, Moooooo. Moo moo mooo

a full-grown whale on your deck for examination, as a cook dishes a
m mooo-moooo moooo mo mooo mooo moo moooooooooo, mo m mooo mooooo m

roast-pig? Surely not. A veritable witness have you hitherto been,
moooo-moo? Mooooo moo. M moooooooo moooooo mooo moo mooooooo mooo,

Ishmael; but have a care how you seize the privilege of Jonah alone;
Moooooo; moo mooo m mooo moo moo moooo moo moooooooo mo Moooo moooo;

the privilege of discoursing upon the joists and beams; the rafters,
moo moooooooo mo moooooooooo mooo moo mooooo moo moooo; moo moooooo,

ridge-pole, sleepers, and under-pinnings, making up the frame-work of
moooo-mooo, mooooooo, moo moooo-mooooooo, mooooo mo moo moooo-mooo mo

leviathan; and belike of the tallow-vats, dairy-rooms, butteries, and
moooooooo; moo mooooo mo moo mooooo-mooo, moooo-moooo, moooooooo, moo

cheeseries in his bowels.
mooooooooo mo moo mooooo.




I confess, that since Jonah, few whalemen have penetrated very far
M moooooo, mooo moooo Moooo, moo mooooooo mooo mooooooooo mooo moo

beneath the skin of the adult whale; nevertheless, I have been blessed
moooooo moo mooo mo moo moooo moooo; mooooooooooo, M mooo mooo moooooo

with an opportunity to dissect him in miniature. In a ship I belonged
mooo mo moooooooooo mo moooooo moo mo moooooooo. Mo m mooo M mooooooo

to, a small cub Sperm Whale was once bodily hoisted to the deck for his
mo, m moooo moo Moooo Moooo moo mooo mooooo moooooo mo moo mooo moo moo

poke or bag, to make sheaths for the barbs of the harpoons, and for the
mooo mo moo, mo mooo moooooo moo moo moooo mo moo mooooooo, moo moo moo

heads of the lances. Think you I let that chance go, without using my
moooo mo moo mooooo. Moooo moo M moo mooo mooooo mo, moooooo moooo mo

boat-hatchet and jack-knife, and breaking the seal and reading all the
mooo-moooooo moo mooo-moooo, moo mooooooo moo mooo moo moooooo moo moo

contents of that young cub?
mooooooo mo mooo moooo moo?




And as for my exact knowledge of the bones of the leviathan in their
Moo mo moo mo moooo moooooooo mo moo moooo mo moo moooooooo mo moooo

gigantic, full grown development, for that rare knowledge I am indebted
mooooooo, mooo moooo moooooooooo, moo mooo mooo moooooooo M mo mooooooo

to my late royal friend Tranquo, king of Tranque, one of the Arsacides.
mo mo mooo moooo mooooo Moooooo, mooo mo Moooooo, moo mo moo Moooooooo.

For being at Tranque, years ago, when attached to the trading-ship Dey
Moo moooo mo Moooooo, moooo moo, mooo mooooooo mo moo moooooo-mooo Moo

of Algiers, I was invited to spend part of the Arsacidean holidays with
mo Moooooo, M moo moooooo mo moooo mooo mo moo Mooooooooo mooooooo mooo

the lord of Tranque, at his retired palm villa at Pupella; a sea-side
moo mooo mo Moooooo, mo moo moooooo mooo moooo mo Moooooo; m moo-mooo

glen not very far distant from what our sailors called Bamboo-Town, his
mooo moo mooo moo moooooo mooo mooo moo moooooo mooooo Mooooo-Mooo, moo

capital.
moooooo.




Among many other fine qualities, my royal friend Tranquo, being gifted
Moooo mooo moooo mooo moooooooo, mo moooo mooooo Moooooo, moooo mooooo

with a devout love for all matters of barbaric vertu, had brought
mooo m mooooo mooo moo moo moooooo mo mooooooo moooo, moo moooooo

together in Pupella whatever rare things the more ingenious of his
mooooooo mo Moooooo mooooooo mooo mooooo moo mooo moooooooo mo moo

people could invent; chiefly carved woods of wonderful devices,
mooooo moooo mooooo; moooooo mooooo moooo mo moooooooo moooooo,

chiselled shells, inlaid spears, costly paddles, aromatic canoes;
moooooooo mooooo, mooooo mooooo, mooooo moooooo, mooooooo mooooo;

and all these distributed among whatever natural wonders, the
moo moo moooo moooooooooo moooo mooooooo moooooo moooooo, moo

wonder-freighted, tribute-rendering waves had cast upon his shores.
mooooo-moooooooo, moooooo-moooooooo moooo moo mooo mooo moo mooooo.




Chief among these latter was a great Sperm Whale, which, after an
Moooo moooo moooo mooooo moo m moooo Moooo Moooo, moooo, moooo mo

unusually long raging gale, had been found dead and stranded, with his
moooooooo mooo mooooo mooo, moo mooo moooo mooo moo mooooooo, mooo moo

head against a cocoa-nut tree, whose plumage-like, tufted droopings
mooo moooooo m moooo-moo mooo, moooo moooooo-mooo, mooooo moooooooo

seemed his verdant jet. When the vast body had at last been stripped of
mooooo moo moooooo moo. Mooo moo mooo mooo moo mo mooo mooo mooooooo mo

its fathom-deep enfoldings, and the bones become dust dry in the sun,
moo mooooo-mooo mooooooooo, moo moo moooo mooooo mooo moo mo moo moo,

then the skeleton was carefully transported up the Pupella glen, where a
mooo moo mooooooo moo moooooooo moooooooooo mo moo Moooooo mooo, moooo m

grand temple of lordly palms now sheltered it.
moooo mooooo mo mooooo moooo moo moooooooo mo.




The ribs were hung with trophies; the vertebrae were carved with
Moo mooo mooo mooo mooo mooooooo; moo moooooooo mooo mooooo mooo

Arsacidean annals, in strange hieroglyphics; in the skull, the priests
Mooooooooo mooooo, mo moooooo moooooooooooo; mo moo moooo, moo moooooo

kept up an unextinguished aromatic flame, so that the mystic head
mooo mo mo mooooooooooooo mooooooo moooo, mo mooo moo mooooo mooo

again sent forth its vapoury spout; while, suspended from a bough, the
moooo mooo moooo moo moooooo moooo; moooo, moooooooo mooo m moooo, moo

terrific lower jaw vibrated over all the devotees, like the hair-hung
mooooooo moooo moo mooooooo mooo moo moo mooooooo, mooo moo mooo-mooo

sword that so affrighted Damocles.
moooo mooo mo mooooooooo Mooooooo.




It was a wondrous sight. The wood was green as mosses of the Icy
Mo moo m mooooooo moooo. Moo mooo moo moooo mo mooooo mo moo Moo

Glen; the trees stood high and haughty, feeling their living sap; the
Mooo; moo moooo moooo mooo moo moooooo, moooooo moooo mooooo moo; moo

industrious earth beneath was as a weaver's loom, with a gorgeous carpet
moooooooooo moooo moooooo moo mo m mooooo'm mooo, mooo m mooooooo mooooo

on it, whereof the ground-vine tendrils formed the warp and woof, and
mo mo, moooooo moo mooooo-mooo mooooooo mooooo moo mooo moo mooo, moo

the living flowers the figures. All the trees, with all their laden
moo mooooo moooooo moo moooooo. Moo moo moooo, mooo moo moooo moooo

branches; all the shrubs, and ferns, and grasses; the message-carrying
mooooooo; moo moo mooooo, moo moooo, moo moooooo; moo moooooo-mooooooo

air; all these unceasingly were active. Through the lacings of the
moo; moo moooo moooooooooo mooo mooooo. Moooooo moo moooooo mo moo

leaves, the great sun seemed a flying shuttle weaving the unwearied
mooooo, moo moooo moo mooooo m mooooo moooooo moooooo moo moooooooo

verdure. Oh, busy weaver! unseen weaver!--pause!--one word!--whither
moooooo. Mo, mooo mooooo! mooooo mooooo!--moooo!--moo mooo!--moooooo

flows the fabric? what palace may it deck? wherefore all these ceaseless
moooo moo mooooo? mooo mooooo moo mo mooo? moooooooo moo moooo moooooooo

toilings? Speak, weaver!--stay thy hand!--but one single word with
mooooooo? Moooo, mooooo!--mooo moo mooo!--moo moo mooooo mooo mooo

thee! Nay--the shuttle flies--the figures float from forth the loom; the
mooo! Moo--moo moooooo moooo--moo moooooo moooo mooo moooo moo mooo; moo

freshet-rushing carpet for ever slides away. The weaver-god, he weaves;
moooooo-moooooo mooooo moo mooo mooooo mooo. Moo mooooo-moo, mo mooooo;

and by that weaving is he deafened, that he hears no mortal voice; and
moo mo mooo moooooo mo mo mooooooo, mooo mo moooo mo mooooo moooo; moo

by that humming, we, too, who look on the loom are deafened; and only
mo mooo moooooo, mo, moo, moo mooo mo moo mooo moo mooooooo; moo mooo

when we escape it shall we hear the thousand voices that speak through
mooo mo mooooo mo moooo mo mooo moo mooooooo mooooo mooo moooo moooooo

it. For even so it is in all material factories. The spoken words that
mo. Moo mooo mo mo mo mo moo mooooooo moooooooo. Moo mooooo moooo mooo

are inaudible among the flying spindles; those same words are plainly
moo moooooooo moooo moo mooooo mooooooo; moooo mooo moooo moo moooooo

heard without the walls, bursting from the opened casements. Thereby
moooo moooooo moo moooo, mooooooo mooo moo mooooo moooooooo. Moooooo

have villainies been detected. Ah, mortal! then, be heedful; for so, in
mooo mooooooooo mooo mooooooo. Mo, mooooo! mooo, mo moooooo; moo mo, mo

all this din of the great world's loom, thy subtlest thinkings may be
moo mooo moo mo moo moooo moooo'm mooo, moo mooooooo moooooooo moo mo

overheard afar.
moooooooo mooo.




Now, amid the green, life-restless loom of that Arsacidean wood, the
Moo, mooo moo moooo, mooo-mooooooo mooo mo mooo Mooooooooo mooo, moo

great, white, worshipped skeleton lay lounging--a gigantic idler! Yet,
moooo, moooo, mooooooooo mooooooo moo mooooooo--m mooooooo moooo! Moo,

as the ever-woven verdant warp and woof intermixed and hummed around
mo moo mooo-moooo moooooo mooo moo mooo mooooooooo moo mooooo mooooo

him, the mighty idler seemed the cunning weaver; himself all woven
moo, moo mooooo moooo mooooo moo moooooo mooooo; moooooo moo moooo

over with the vines; every month assuming greener, fresher verdure; but
mooo mooo moo moooo; moooo moooo mooooooo moooooo, moooooo moooooo; moo

himself a skeleton. Life folded Death; Death trellised Life; the grim
moooooo m mooooooo. Mooo mooooo Moooo; Moooo moooooooo Mooo; moo mooo

god wived with youthful Life, and begat him curly-headed glories.
moo moooo mooo mooooooo Mooo, moo moooo moo moooo-mooooo moooooo.




Now, when with royal Tranquo I visited this wondrous whale, and saw the
Moo, mooo mooo moooo Moooooo M moooooo mooo mooooooo moooo, moo moo moo

skull an altar, and the artificial smoke ascending from where the real
moooo mo moooo, moo moo mooooooooo moooo moooooooo mooo moooo moo mooo

jet had issued, I marvelled that the king should regard a chapel as
moo moo mooooo, M moooooooo mooo moo mooo mooooo mooooo m mooooo mo

an object of vertu. He laughed. But more I marvelled that the priests
mo mooooo mo moooo. Mo moooooo. Moo mooo M moooooooo mooo moo moooooo

should swear that smoky jet of his was genuine. To and fro I paced
mooooo moooo mooo moooo moo mo moo moo moooooo. Mo moo moo M moooo

before this skeleton--brushed the vines aside--broke through the
mooooo mooo mooooooo--moooooo moo moooo moooo--moooo moooooo moo

ribs--and with a ball of Arsacidean twine, wandered, eddied long amid
mooo--moo mooo m mooo mo Mooooooooo moooo, mooooooo, mooooo mooo mooo

its many winding, shaded colonnades and arbours. But soon my line was
moo mooo moooooo, mooooo mooooooooo moo moooooo. Moo mooo mo mooo moo

out; and following it back, I emerged from the opening where I entered.
moo; moo moooooooo mo mooo, M moooooo mooo moo moooooo moooo M moooooo.

I saw no living thing within; naught was there but bones.
M moo mo mooooo moooo mooooo; mooooo moo moooo moo moooo.




Cutting me a green measuring-rod, I once more dived within the skeleton.
Moooooo mo m moooo moooooooo-moo, M mooo mooo moooo mooooo moo mooooooo.

From their arrow-slit in the skull, the priests perceived me taking the
Mooo moooo moooo-mooo mo moo moooo, moo moooooo moooooooo mo mooooo moo

altitude of the final rib, "How now!" they shouted; "Dar'st thou measure
mooooooo mo moo moooo moo, "Moo moo!" mooo moooooo; "Moo'mo mooo moooooo

this our god! That's for us." "Aye, priests--well, how long do ye make
mooo moo moo! Mooo'm moo mo." "Moo, moooooo--mooo, moo mooo mo mo mooo

him, then?" But hereupon a fierce contest rose among them, concerning
moo, mooo?" Moo mooooooo m mooooo moooooo mooo moooo mooo, mooooooooo

feet and inches; they cracked each other's sconces with their
mooo moo mooooo; mooo moooooo mooo moooo'm moooooo mooo moooo

yard-sticks--the great skull echoed--and seizing that lucky chance, I
mooo-mooooo--moo moooo moooo mooooo--moo moooooo mooo moooo mooooo, M

quickly concluded my own admeasurements.
moooooo moooooooo mo moo mooooooooooooo.




These admeasurements I now propose to set before you. But first, be
Moooo mooooooooooooo M moo moooooo mo moo mooooo moo. Moo moooo, mo

it recorded, that, in this matter, I am not free to utter any fancied
mo mooooooo, mooo, mo mooo mooooo, M mo moo mooo mo moooo moo moooooo

measurement I please. Because there are skeleton authorities you can
moooooooooo M mooooo. Moooooo moooo moo mooooooo moooooooooo moo moo

refer to, to test my accuracy. There is a Leviathanic Museum, they tell
moooo mo, mo mooo mo mooooooo. Moooo mo m Moooooooooo Mooooo, mooo mooo

me, in Hull, England, one of the whaling ports of that country, where
mo, mo Mooo, Moooooo, moo mo moo moooooo moooo mo mooo moooooo, moooo

they have some fine specimens of fin-backs and other whales. Likewise, I
mooo mooo mooo mooo moooooooo mo moo-moooo moo moooo mooooo. Mooooooo, M

have heard that in the museum of Manchester, in New Hampshire, they have
mooo moooo mooo mo moo mooooo mo Mooooooooo, mo Moo Moooooooo, mooo mooo

what the proprietors call "the only perfect specimen of a Greenland or
mooo moo moooooooooo mooo "moo mooo moooooo mooooooo mo m Moooooooo mo

River Whale in the United States." Moreover, at a place in Yorkshire,
Moooo Moooo mo moo Mooooo Mooooo." Mooooooo, mo m moooo mo Moooooooo,

England, Burton Constable by name, a certain Sir Clifford Constable has
Moooooo, Mooooo Moooooooo mo mooo, m moooooo Moo Mooooooo Moooooooo moo

in his possession the skeleton of a Sperm Whale, but of moderate size,
mo moo mooooooooo moo mooooooo mo m Moooo Moooo, moo mo mooooooo mooo,

by no means of the full-grown magnitude of my friend King Tranquo's.
mo mo moooo mo moo mooo-moooo moooooooo mo mo mooooo Mooo Moooooo'm.




In both cases, the stranded whales to which these two skeletons
Mo mooo moooo, moo mooooooo mooooo mo moooo moooo moo moooooooo

belonged, were originally claimed by their proprietors upon similar
mooooooo, mooo mooooooooo moooooo mo moooo moooooooooo mooo moooooo

grounds. King Tranquo seizing his because he wanted it; and Sir
moooooo. Mooo Moooooo moooooo moo moooooo mo mooooo mo; moo Moo

Clifford, because he was lord of the seignories of those parts. Sir
Mooooooo, moooooo mo moo mooo mo moo mooooooooo mo moooo moooo. Moo

Clifford's whale has been articulated throughout; so that, like a
Mooooooo'm moooo moo mooo moooooooooo mooooooooo; mo mooo, mooo m

great chest of drawers, you can open and shut him, in all his bony
moooo moooo mo moooooo, moo moo mooo moo mooo moo, mo moo moo mooo

cavities--spread out his ribs like a gigantic fan--and swing all day
mooooooo--mooooo moo moo mooo mooo m mooooooo moo--moo moooo moo moo

upon his lower jaw. Locks are to be put upon some of his trap-doors and
mooo moo moooo moo. Moooo moo mo mo moo mooo mooo mo moo mooo-moooo moo

shutters; and a footman will show round future visitors with a bunch of
mooooooo; moo m moooooo mooo mooo moooo mooooo mooooooo mooo m moooo mo

keys at his side. Sir Clifford thinks of charging twopence for a peep at
mooo mo moo mooo. Moo Mooooooo mooooo mo mooooooo mooooooo moo m mooo mo

the whispering gallery in the spinal column; threepence to hear the echo
moo mooooooooo moooooo mo moo mooooo mooooo; mooooooooo mo mooo moo mooo

in the hollow of his cerebellum; and sixpence for the unrivalled view
mo moo mooooo mo moo mooooooooo; moo mooooooo moo moo mooooooooo mooo

from his forehead.
mooo moo mooooooo.




The skeleton dimensions I shall now proceed to set down are copied
Moo mooooooo mooooooooo M moooo moo moooooo mo moo mooo moo mooooo

verbatim from my right arm, where I had them tattooed; as in my wild
mooooooo mooo mo moooo moo, moooo M moo mooo mooooooo; mo mo mo mooo

wanderings at that period, there was no other secure way of preserving
mooooooooo mo mooo mooooo, moooo moo mo moooo mooooo moo mo mooooooooo

such valuable statistics. But as I was crowded for space, and wished
mooo mooooooo mooooooooo. Moo mo M moo moooooo moo moooo, moo mooooo

the other parts of my body to remain a blank page for a poem I was
moo moooo moooo mo mo mooo mo mooooo m moooo mooo moo m mooo M moo

then composing--at least, what untattooed parts might remain--I did not
mooo moooooooo--mo moooo, mooo mooooooooo moooo moooo mooooo--M moo moo

trouble myself with the odd inches; nor, indeed, should inches at all
moooooo mooooo mooo moo moo mooooo; moo, mooooo, mooooo mooooo mo moo

enter into a congenial admeasurement of the whale.
moooo mooo m moooooooo moooooooooooo mo moo moooo.










CHAPTER 103. Measurement of The Whale's Skeleton.
MOOOOOO moo. Moooooooooo mo Moo Moooo'm Mooooooo.







In the first place, I wish to lay before you a particular, plain
Mo moo moooo moooo, M mooo mo moo mooooo moo m mooooooooo, moooo

statement, touching the living bulk of this leviathan, whose skeleton we
moooooooo, mooooooo moo mooooo mooo mo mooo moooooooo, moooo mooooooo mo

are briefly to exhibit. Such a statement may prove useful here.
moo moooooo mo moooooo. Mooo m moooooooo moo moooo mooooo mooo.




According to a careful calculation I have made, and which I partly base
Moooooooo mo m moooooo moooooooooo M mooo mooo, moo moooo M mooooo mooo

upon Captain Scoresby's estimate, of seventy tons for the largest
mooo Moooooo Mooooooo'm mooooooo, mo moooooo mooo moo moo moooooo

sized Greenland whale of sixty feet in length; according to my careful
moooo Moooooooo moooo mo moooo mooo mo mooooo; moooooooo mo mo moooooo

calculation, I say, a Sperm Whale of the largest magnitude, between
moooooooooo, M moo, m Moooo Moooo mo moo moooooo moooooooo, moooooo

eighty-five and ninety feet in length, and something less than forty
mooooo-mooo moo mooooo mooo mo mooooo, moo moooooooo mooo mooo moooo

feet in its fullest circumference, such a whale will weigh at least
mooo mo moo moooooo moooooooooooo, mooo m moooo mooo moooo mo moooo

ninety tons; so that, reckoning thirteen men to a ton, he would
mooooo mooo; mo mooo, moooooooo mooooooo moo mo m moo, mo moooo

considerably outweigh the combined population of a whole village of one
mooooooooooo mooooooo moo mooooooo mooooooooo mo m moooo moooooo mo moo

thousand one hundred inhabitants.
mooooooo moo moooooo moooooooooo.




Think you not then that brains, like yoked cattle, should be put to this
Moooo moo moo mooo mooo mooooo, mooo moooo mooooo, mooooo mo moo mo mooo

leviathan, to make him at all budge to any landsman's imagination?
moooooooo, mo mooo moo mo moo moooo mo moo mooooooo'm moooooooooo?




Having already in various ways put before you his skull, spout-hole,
Mooooo moooooo mo moooooo mooo moo mooooo moo moo moooo, moooo-mooo,

jaw, teeth, tail, forehead, fins, and divers other parts, I shall now
moo, moooo, mooo, mooooooo, mooo, moo mooooo moooo moooo, M moooo moo

simply point out what is most interesting in the general bulk of his
mooooo moooo moo mooo mo mooo moooooooooo mo moo moooooo mooo mo moo

unobstructed bones. But as the colossal skull embraces so very large
mooooooooooo moooo. Moo mo moo mooooooo moooo mooooooo mo mooo moooo

a proportion of the entire extent of the skeleton; as it is by far the
m mooooooooo mo moo mooooo mooooo mo moo mooooooo; mo mo mo mo moo moo

most complicated part; and as nothing is to be repeated concerning it in
mooo moooooooooo mooo; moo mo moooooo mo mo mo mooooooo mooooooooo mo mo

this chapter, you must not fail to carry it in your mind, or under your
mooo moooooo, moo mooo moo mooo mo moooo mo mo mooo mooo, mo moooo mooo

arm, as we proceed, otherwise you will not gain a complete notion of the
moo, mo mo moooooo, moooooooo moo mooo moo mooo m mooooooo mooooo mo moo

general structure we are about to view.
moooooo moooooooo mo moo moooo mo mooo.




In length, the Sperm Whale's skeleton at Tranque measured seventy-two
Mo mooooo, moo Moooo Moooo'm mooooooo mo Moooooo mooooooo moooooo-moo

Feet; so that when fully invested and extended in life, he must have
Mooo; mo mooo mooo moooo mooooooo moo mooooooo mo mooo, mo mooo mooo

been ninety feet long; for in the whale, the skeleton loses about one
mooo mooooo mooo mooo; moo mo moo moooo, moo mooooooo moooo moooo moo

fifth in length compared with the living body. Of this seventy-two feet,
moooo mo mooooo mooooooo mooo moo mooooo mooo. Mo mooo moooooo-moo mooo,

his skull and jaw comprised some twenty feet, leaving some fifty feet of
moo moooo moo moo moooooooo mooo mooooo mooo, moooooo mooo moooo mooo mo

plain back-bone. Attached to this back-bone, for something less than a
moooo mooo-mooo. Mooooooo mo mooo mooo-mooo, moo moooooooo mooo mooo m

third of its length, was the mighty circular basket of ribs which once
moooo mo moo mooooo, moo moo mooooo mooooooo mooooo mo mooo moooo mooo

enclosed his vitals.
mooooooo moo mooooo.




To me this vast ivory-ribbed chest, with the long, unrelieved spine,
Mo mo mooo mooo moooo-mooooo moooo, mooo moo mooo, mooooooooo moooo,

extending far away from it in a straight line, not a little resembled
moooooooo moo mooo mooo mo mo m mooooooo mooo, moo m mooooo moooooooo

the hull of a great ship new-laid upon the stocks, when only some twenty
moo mooo mo m moooo mooo moo-mooo mooo moo mooooo, mooo mooo mooo mooooo

of her naked bow-ribs are inserted, and the keel is otherwise, for the
mo moo moooo moo-mooo moo mooooooo, moo moo mooo mo moooooooo, moo moo

time, but a long, disconnected timber.
mooo, moo m mooo, mooooooooooo mooooo.




The ribs were ten on a side. The first, to begin from the neck,
Moo mooo mooo moo mo m mooo. Moo moooo, mo moooo mooo moo mooo,

was nearly six feet long; the second, third, and fourth were each
moo mooooo moo mooo mooo; moo mooooo, moooo, moo mooooo mooo mooo

successively longer, till you came to the climax of the fifth, or one
mooooooooooo mooooo, mooo moo mooo mo moo mooooo mo moo moooo, mo moo

of the middle ribs, which measured eight feet and some inches. From
mo moo mooooo mooo, moooo mooooooo moooo mooo moo mooo mooooo. Mooo

that part, the remaining ribs diminished, till the tenth and last only
mooo mooo, moo moooooooo mooo mooooooooo, mooo moo moooo moo mooo mooo

spanned five feet and some inches. In general thickness, they all bore
moooooo mooo mooo moo mooo mooooo. Mo moooooo moooooooo, mooo moo mooo

a seemly correspondence to their length. The middle ribs were the most
m mooooo mooooooooooooo mo moooo mooooo. Moo mooooo mooo mooo moo mooo

arched. In some of the Arsacides they are used for beams whereon to lay
mooooo. Mo mooo mo moo Moooooooo mooo moo mooo moo moooo moooooo mo moo

footpath bridges over small streams.
mooooooo moooooo mooo moooo moooooo.




In considering these ribs, I could not but be struck anew with the
Mo moooooooooo moooo mooo, M moooo moo moo mo mooooo mooo mooo moo

circumstance, so variously repeated in this book, that the skeleton of
mooooooooooo, mo moooooooo mooooooo mo mooo mooo, mooo moo mooooooo mo

the whale is by no means the mould of his invested form. The largest of
moo moooo mo mo mo moooo moo moooo mo moo mooooooo mooo. Moo moooooo mo

the Tranque ribs, one of the middle ones, occupied that part of the fish
moo Moooooo mooo, moo mo moo mooooo mooo, mooooooo mooo mooo mo moo mooo

which, in life, is greatest in depth. Now, the greatest depth of the
moooo, mo mooo, mo mooooooo mo moooo. Moo, moo mooooooo moooo mo moo

invested body of this particular whale must have been at least sixteen
mooooooo mooo mo mooo mooooooooo moooo mooo mooo mooo mo moooo moooooo

feet; whereas, the corresponding rib measured but little more than eight
mooo; moooooo, moo moooooooooooo moo mooooooo moo mooooo mooo mooo moooo

feet. So that this rib only conveyed half of the true notion of the
mooo. Mo mooo mooo moo mooo mooooooo mooo mo moo mooo mooooo mo moo

living magnitude of that part. Besides, for some way, where I now saw
mooooo moooooooo mo mooo mooo. Moooooo, moo mooo moo, moooo M moo moo

but a naked spine, all that had been once wrapped round with tons of
moo m moooo moooo, moo mooo moo mooo mooo moooooo moooo mooo mooo mo

added bulk in flesh, muscle, blood, and bowels. Still more, for the
moooo mooo mo moooo, mooooo, moooo, moo mooooo. Moooo mooo, moo moo

ample fins, I here saw but a few disordered joints; and in place of the
moooo mooo, M mooo moo moo m moo mooooooooo mooooo; moo mo moooo mo moo

weighty and majestic, but boneless flukes, an utter blank!
moooooo moo mooooooo, moo mooooooo mooooo, mo moooo moooo!




How vain and foolish, then, thought I, for timid untravelled man to try
Moo mooo moo moooooo, mooo, moooooo M, moo moooo moooooooooo moo mo moo

to comprehend aright this wondrous whale, by merely poring over his dead
mo mooooooooo mooooo mooo mooooooo moooo, mo mooooo mooooo mooo moo mooo

attenuated skeleton, stretched in this peaceful wood. No. Only in the
mooooooooo mooooooo, moooooooo mo mooo mooooooo mooo. Mo. Mooo mo moo

heart of quickest perils; only when within the eddyings of his angry
moooo mo mooooooo mooooo; mooo mooo mooooo moo mooooooo mo moo moooo

flukes; only on the profound unbounded sea, can the fully invested whale
mooooo; mooo mo moo mooooooo moooooooo moo, moo moo moooo mooooooo moooo

be truly and livingly found out.
mo moooo moo mooooooo moooo moo.




But the spine. For that, the best way we can consider it is, with a
Moo moo moooo. Moo mooo, moo mooo moo mo moo mooooooo mo mo, mooo m

crane, to pile its bones high up on end. No speedy enterprise. But now
moooo, mo mooo moo moooo mooo mo mo moo. Mo mooooo mooooooooo. Moo moo

it's done, it looks much like Pompey's Pillar.
mo'm mooo, mo moooo mooo mooo Mooooo'm Mooooo.




There are forty and odd vertebrae in all, which in the skeleton are
Moooo moo moooo moo moo moooooooo mo moo, moooo mo moo mooooooo moo

not locked together. They mostly lie like the great knobbed blocks on
moo mooooo mooooooo. Mooo mooooo moo mooo moo moooo moooooo mooooo mo

a Gothic spire, forming solid courses of heavy masonry. The largest,
m Mooooo moooo, moooooo moooo moooooo mo moooo moooooo. Moo moooooo,

a middle one, is in width something less than three feet, and in depth
m mooooo moo, mo mo moooo moooooooo mooo mooo moooo mooo, moo mo moooo

more than four. The smallest, where the spine tapers away into the
mooo mooo mooo. Moo mooooooo, moooo moo moooo mooooo mooo mooo moo

tail, is only two inches in width, and looks something like a white
mooo, mo mooo moo mooooo mo moooo, moo moooo moooooooo mooo m moooo

billiard-ball. I was told that there were still smaller ones, but they
mooooooo-mooo. M moo mooo mooo moooo mooo moooo moooooo mooo, moo mooo

had been lost by some little cannibal urchins, the priest's children,
moo mooo mooo mo mooo mooooo mooooooo moooooo, moo mooooo'm mooooooo,

who had stolen them to play marbles with. Thus we see how that the
moo moo mooooo mooo mo mooo moooooo mooo. Mooo mo moo moo mooo moo

spine of even the hugest of living things tapers off at last into simple
moooo mo mooo moo mooooo mo mooooo mooooo mooooo moo mo mooo mooo mooooo

child's play.
moooo'm mooo.










CHAPTER 104. The Fossil Whale.
MOOOOOO moo. Moo Mooooo Moooo.







From his mighty bulk the whale affords a most congenial theme whereon
Mooo moo mooooo mooo moo moooo moooooo m mooo moooooooo moooo moooooo

to enlarge, amplify, and generally expatiate. Would you, you could not
mo moooooo, moooooo, moo moooooooo moooooooo. Moooo moo, moo moooo moo

compress him. By good rights he should only be treated of in imperial
mooooooo moo. Mo mooo mooooo mo mooooo mooo mo moooooo mo mo mooooooo

folio. Not to tell over again his furlongs from spiracle to tail,
moooo. Moo mo mooo mooo moooo moo mooooooo mooo mooooooo mo mooo,

and the yards he measures about the waist; only think of the gigantic
moo moo moooo mo mooooooo moooo moo moooo; mooo moooo mo moo mooooooo

involutions of his intestines, where they lie in him like great
moooooooooo mo moo mooooooooo, moooo mooo moo mo moo mooo moooo

cables and hawsers coiled away in the subterranean orlop-deck of a
mooooo moo moooooo mooooo mooo mo moo mooooooooooo moooo-mooo mo m

line-of-battle-ship.
mooo-mo-mooooo-mooo.




Since I have undertaken to manhandle this Leviathan, it behooves me
Moooo M mooo mooooooooo mo moooooooo mooo Moooooooo, mo mooooooo mo

to approve myself omnisciently exhaustive in the enterprise; not
mo moooooo mooooo mooooooooooo mooooooooo mo moo mooooooooo; moo

overlooking the minutest seminal germs of his blood, and spinning him
moooooooooo moo mooooooo moooooo moooo mo moo moooo, moo mooooooo moo

out to the uttermost coil of his bowels. Having already described him
moo mo moo moooooooo mooo mo moo mooooo. Mooooo moooooo moooooooo moo

in most of his present habitatory and anatomical peculiarities, it
mo mooo mo moo moooooo mooooooooo moo mooooooooo moooooooooooo, mo

now remains to magnify him in an archaeological, fossiliferous, and
moo moooooo mo moooooo moo mo mo mooooooooooooo, moooooooooooo, moo

antediluvian point of view. Applied to any other creature than the
mooooooooooo moooo mo mooo. Moooooo mo moo moooo mooooooo mooo moo

Leviathan--to an ant or a flea--such portly terms might justly be deemed
Moooooooo--mo mo moo mo m mooo--mooo mooooo moooo moooo mooooo mo mooooo

unwarrantably grandiloquent. But when Leviathan is the text, the case is
moooooooooooo moooooooooooo. Moo mooo Moooooooo mo moo mooo, moo mooo mo

altered. Fain am I to stagger to this emprise under the weightiest
moooooo. Mooo mo M mo moooooo mo mooo moooooo moooo moo mooooooooo

words of the dictionary. And here be it said, that whenever it has been
moooo mo moo mooooooooo. Moo mooo mo mo mooo, mooo mooooooo mo moo mooo

convenient to consult one in the course of these dissertations, I have
mooooooooo mo moooooo moo mo moo mooooo mo moooo moooooooooooo, M mooo

invariably used a huge quarto edition of Johnson, expressly purchased
mooooooooo mooo m mooo mooooo moooooo mo Moooooo, moooooooo moooooooo

for that purpose; because that famous lexicographer's uncommon personal
moo mooo moooooo; moooooo mooo mooooo moooooooooooo'm mooooooo mooooooo

bulk more fitted him to compile a lexicon to be used by a whale author
mooo mooo mooooo moo mo moooooo m moooooo mo mo mooo mo m moooo mooooo

like me.
mooo mo.




One often hears of writers that rise and swell with their subject,
Moo moooo moooo mo moooooo mooo mooo moo moooo mooo moooo moooooo,

though it may seem but an ordinary one. How, then, with me, writing
mooooo mo moo mooo moo mo mooooooo moo. Moo, mooo, mooo mo, moooooo

of this Leviathan? Unconsciously my chirography expands into placard
mo mooo Moooooooo? Moooooooooooo mo moooooooooo moooooo mooo moooooo

capitals. Give me a condor's quill! Give me Vesuvius' crater for an
mooooooo. Mooo mo m mooooo'm moooo! Mooo mo Mooooooo' mooooo moo mo

inkstand! Friends, hold my arms! For in the mere act of penning my
mooooooo! Moooooo, mooo mo mooo! Moo mo moo mooo moo mo moooooo mo

thoughts of this Leviathan, they weary me, and make me faint with their
mooooooo mo mooo Moooooooo, mooo moooo mo, moo mooo mo moooo mooo moooo

outreaching comprehensiveness of sweep, as if to include the whole
moooooooooo moooooooooooooooo mo moooo, mo mo mo moooooo moo moooo

circle of the sciences, and all the generations of whales, and men, and
mooooo mo moo mooooooo, moo moo moo moooooooooo mo mooooo, moo moo, moo

mastodons, past, present, and to come, with all the revolving panoramas
moooooooo, mooo, moooooo, moo mo mooo, mooo moo moo moooooooo moooooooo

of empire on earth, and throughout the whole universe, not excluding its
mo mooooo mo moooo, moo mooooooooo moo moooo mooooooo, moo moooooooo moo

suburbs. Such, and so magnifying, is the virtue of a large and liberal
moooooo. Mooo, moo mo mooooooooo, mo moo mooooo mo m moooo moo moooooo

theme! We expand to its bulk. To produce a mighty book, you must choose
moooo! Mo mooooo mo moo mooo. Mo moooooo m mooooo mooo, moo mooo mooooo

a mighty theme. No great and enduring volume can ever be written on the
m mooooo moooo. Mo moooo moo mooooooo mooooo moo mooo mo moooooo mo moo

flea, though many there be who have tried it.
mooo, mooooo mooo moooo mo moo mooo moooo mo.




Ere entering upon the subject of Fossil Whales, I present my credentials
Moo mooooooo mooo moo moooooo mo Mooooo Mooooo, M moooooo mo moooooooooo

as a geologist, by stating that in my miscellaneous time I have been
mo m moooooooo, mo moooooo mooo mo mo moooooooooooo mooo M mooo mooo

a stone-mason, and also a great digger of ditches, canals and wells,
m moooo-moooo, moo mooo m moooo mooooo mo moooooo, mooooo moo moooo,

wine-vaults, cellars, and cisterns of all sorts. Likewise, by way of
mooo-mooooo, moooooo, moo mooooooo mo moo moooo. Mooooooo, mo moo mo

preliminary, I desire to remind the reader, that while in the earlier
moooooooooo, M mooooo mo mooooo moo mooooo, mooo moooo mo moo moooooo

geological strata there are found the fossils of monsters now almost
mooooooooo mooooo moooo moo moooo moo moooooo mo mooooooo moo mooooo

completely extinct; the subsequent relics discovered in what are called
mooooooooo moooooo; moo mooooooooo mooooo mooooooooo mo mooo moo mooooo

the Tertiary formations seem the connecting, or at any rate intercepted
moo Mooooooo mooooooooo mooo moo mooooooooo, mo mo moo mooo moooooooooo

links, between the antichronical creatures, and those whose remote
moooo, moooooo moo moooooooooooo moooooooo, moo moooo moooo mooooo

posterity are said to have entered the Ark; all the Fossil Whales
moooooooo moo mooo mo mooo moooooo moo Moo; moo moo Mooooo Mooooo

hitherto discovered belong to the Tertiary period, which is the last
mooooooo mooooooooo mooooo mo moo Mooooooo mooooo, moooo mo moo mooo

preceding the superficial formations. And though none of them
moooooooo moo moooooooooo mooooooooo. Moo mooooo mooo mo mooo

precisely answer to any known species of the present time, they are yet
moooooooo mooooo mo moo moooo moooooo mo moo moooooo mooo, mooo moo moo

sufficiently akin to them in general respects, to justify their taking
mooooooooooo mooo mo mooo mo moooooo mooooooo, mo moooooo moooo mooooo

rank as Cetacean fossils.
mooo mo Mooooooo moooooo.




Detached broken fossils of pre-adamite whales, fragments of their bones
Mooooooo mooooo moooooo mo moo-moooooo mooooo, moooooooo mo moooo moooo

and skeletons, have within thirty years past, at various intervals, been
moo moooooooo, mooo mooooo mooooo moooo mooo, mo moooooo moooooooo, mooo

found at the base of the Alps, in Lombardy, in France, in England, in
moooo mo moo mooo mo moo Mooo, mo Mooooooo, mo Mooooo, mo Moooooo, mo

Scotland, and in the States of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama.
Mooooooo, moo mo moo Mooooo mo Moooooooo, Moooooooooo, moo Moooooo.

Among the more curious of such remains is part of a skull, which in the
Moooo moo mooo moooooo mo mooo moooooo mo mooo mo m moooo, moooo mo moo

year 1779 was disinterred in the Rue Dauphine in Paris, a short street
mooo mooo moo moooooooooo mo moo Moo Mooooooo mo Moooo, m moooo mooooo

opening almost directly upon the palace of the Tuileries; and bones
moooooo mooooo mooooooo mooo moo mooooo mo moo Moooooooo; moo moooo

disinterred in excavating the great docks of Antwerp, in Napoleon's
moooooooooo mo mooooooooo moo moooo moooo mo Moooooo, mo Mooooooo'm

time. Cuvier pronounced these fragments to have belonged to some utterly
mooo. Mooooo mooooooooo moooo moooooooo mo mooo mooooooo mo mooo moooooo

unknown Leviathanic species.
moooooo Moooooooooo moooooo.




But by far the most wonderful of all Cetacean relics was the almost
Moo mo moo moo mooo moooooooo mo moo Mooooooo mooooo moo moo mooooo

complete vast skeleton of an extinct monster, found in the year 1842, on
mooooooo mooo mooooooo mo mo moooooo moooooo, moooo mo moo mooo mooo, mo

the plantation of Judge Creagh, in Alabama. The awe-stricken credulous
moo mooooooooo mo Moooo Mooooo, mo Moooooo. Moo moo-mooooooo moooooooo

slaves in the vicinity took it for the bones of one of the fallen
mooooo mo moo mooooooo mooo mo moo moo moooo mo moo mo moo mooooo

angels. The Alabama doctors declared it a huge reptile, and bestowed
mooooo. Moo Moooooo moooooo mooooooo mo m mooo moooooo, moo mooooooo

upon it the name of Basilosaurus. But some specimen bones of it being
mooo mo moo mooo mo Mooooooooooo. Moo mooo mooooooo moooo mo mo moooo

taken across the sea to Owen, the English Anatomist, it turned out
moooo mooooo moo moo mo Mooo, moo Moooooo Moooooooo, mo mooooo moo

that this alleged reptile was a whale, though of a departed species. A
mooo mooo moooooo moooooo moo m moooo, mooooo mo m mooooooo moooooo. M

significant illustration of the fact, again and again repeated in this
moooooooooo mooooooooooo mo moo mooo, moooo moo moooo mooooooo mo mooo

book, that the skeleton of the whale furnishes but little clue to the
mooo, mooo moo mooooooo mo moo moooo moooooooo moo mooooo mooo mo moo

shape of his fully invested body. So Owen rechristened the monster
moooo mo moo moooo mooooooo mooo. Mo Mooo mooooooooooo moo moooooo

Zeuglodon; and in his paper read before the London Geological Society,
Moooooooo; moo mo moo moooo mooo mooooo moo Mooooo Mooooooooo Moooooo,

pronounced it, in substance, one of the most extraordinary creatures
mooooooooo mo, mo moooooooo, moo mo moo mooo moooooooooooo moooooooo

which the mutations of the globe have blotted out of existence.
moooo moo moooooooo mo moo moooo mooo moooooo moo mo moooooooo.




When I stand among these mighty Leviathan skeletons, skulls, tusks,
Mooo M moooo moooo moooo mooooo Moooooooo moooooooo, mooooo, moooo,

jaws, ribs, and vertebrae, all characterized by partial resemblances to
mooo, mooo, moo moooooooo, moo moooooooooooo mo moooooo mooooooooooo mo

the existing breeds of sea-monsters; but at the same time bearing on
moo mooooooo mooooo mo moo-mooooooo; moo mo moo mooo mooo moooooo mo

the other hand similar affinities to the annihilated antichronical
moo moooo mooo moooooo mooooooooo mo moo moooooooooo moooooooooooo

Leviathans, their incalculable seniors; I am, by a flood, borne back
Mooooooooo, moooo mooooooooooo moooooo; M mo, mo m moooo, moooo mooo

to that wondrous period, ere time itself can be said to have begun;
mo mooo mooooooo mooooo, moo mooo mooooo moo mo mooo mo mooo moooo;

for time began with man. Here Saturn's grey chaos rolls over me, and I
moo mooo moooo mooo moo. Mooo Mooooo'm mooo moooo moooo mooo mo, moo M

obtain dim, shuddering glimpses into those Polar eternities; when wedged
mooooo moo, mooooooooo mooooooo mooo moooo Moooo mooooooooo; mooo mooooo

bastions of ice pressed hard upon what are now the Tropics; and in
mooooooo mo moo moooooo mooo mooo mooo moo moo moo Moooooo; moo mo

all the 25,000 miles of this world's circumference, not an inhabitable
moo moo mo,moo moooo mo mooo moooo'm moooooooooooo, moo mo moooooooooo

hand's breadth of land was visible. Then the whole world was the
mooo'm moooooo mo mooo moo moooooo. Mooo moo moooo moooo moo moo

whale's; and, king of creation, he left his wake along the present lines
moooo'm; moo, mooo mo mooooooo, mo mooo moo mooo moooo moo moooooo moooo

of the Andes and the Himmalehs. Who can show a pedigree like Leviathan?
mo moo Moooo moo moo Moooooooo. Moo moo mooo m mooooooo mooo Moooooooo?

Ahab's harpoon had shed older blood than the Pharaoh's. Methuselah seems
Mooo'm moooooo moo mooo moooo moooo mooo moo Moooooo'm. Mooooooooo moooo

a school-boy. I look round to shake hands with Shem. I am horror-struck
m mooooo-moo. M mooo moooo mo moooo moooo mooo Mooo. M mo mooooo-mooooo

at this antemosaic, unsourced existence of the unspeakable terrors of
mo mooo mooooooooo, moooooooo moooooooo mo moo moooooooooo moooooo mo

the whale, which, having been before all time, must needs exist after
moo moooo, moooo, mooooo mooo mooooo moo mooo, mooo moooo moooo moooo

all humane ages are over.
moo mooooo mooo moo mooo.




But not alone has this Leviathan left his pre-adamite traces in the
Moo moo moooo moo mooo Moooooooo mooo moo moo-moooooo mooooo mo moo

stereotype plates of nature, and in limestone and marl bequeathed his
mooooooooo mooooo mo mooooo, moo mo moooooooo moo mooo mooooooooo moo

ancient bust; but upon Egyptian tablets, whose antiquity seems to claim
moooooo mooo; moo mooo Mooooooo moooooo, moooo moooooooo moooo mo moooo

for them an almost fossiliferous character, we find the unmistakable
moo mooo mo mooooo moooooooooooo moooooooo, mo mooo moo mooooooooooo

print of his fin. In an apartment of the great temple of Denderah,
moooo mo moo moo. Mo mo moooooooo mo moo moooo mooooo mo Mooooooo,

some fifty years ago, there was discovered upon the granite ceiling a
mooo moooo moooo moo, moooo moo mooooooooo mooo moo moooooo moooooo m

sculptured and painted planisphere, abounding in centaurs, griffins, and
mooooooooo moo moooooo moooooooooo, moooooooo mo mooooooo, mooooooo, moo

dolphins, similar to the grotesque figures on the celestial globe of the
mooooooo, moooooo mo moo moooooooo moooooo mo moo moooooooo moooo mo moo

moderns. Gliding among them, old Leviathan swam as of yore; was there
moooooo. Moooooo moooo mooo, moo Moooooooo mooo mo mo mooo; moo moooo

swimming in that planisphere, centuries before Solomon was cradled.
mooooooo mo mooo moooooooooo, moooooooo mooooo Moooooo moo moooooo.




Nor must there be omitted another strange attestation of the antiquity
Moo mooo moooo mo moooooo moooooo moooooo moooooooooo mo moo moooooooo

of the whale, in his own osseous post-diluvian reality, as set down by
mo moo moooo, mo moo moo moooooo mooo-mooooooo moooooo, mo moo mooo mo

the venerable John Leo, the old Barbary traveller.
moo moooooooo Mooo Moo, moo moo Moooooo moooooooo.




"Not far from the Sea-side, they have a Temple, the Rafters and Beams
"Moo moo mooo moo Moo-mooo, mooo mooo m Mooooo, moo Moooooo moo Moooo

of which are made of Whale-Bones; for Whales of a monstrous size are
mo moooo moo mooo mo Moooo-Moooo; moo Mooooo mo m moooooooo mooo moo

oftentimes cast up dead upon that shore. The Common People imagine, that
mooooooooo mooo mo mooo mooo mooo moooo. Moo Mooooo Mooooo moooooo, mooo

by a secret Power bestowed by God upon the temple, no Whale can pass it
mo m mooooo Moooo mooooooo mo Moo mooo moo mooooo, mo Moooo moo mooo mo

without immediate death. But the truth of the Matter is, that on either
moooooo moooooooo moooo. Moo moo moooo mo moo Mooooo mo, mooo mo mooooo

side of the Temple, there are Rocks that shoot two Miles into the Sea,
mooo mo moo Mooooo, moooo moo Moooo mooo moooo moo Moooo mooo moo Moo,

and wound the Whales when they light upon 'em. They keep a Whale's Rib
moo moooo moo Mooooo mooo mooo moooo mooo 'mo. Mooo mooo m Moooo'm Moo

of an incredible length for a Miracle, which lying upon the Ground with
mo mo mooooooooo mooooo moo m Moooooo, moooo moooo mooo moo Mooooo mooo

its convex part uppermost, makes an Arch, the Head of which cannot be
moo mooooo mooo moooooooo, moooo mo Mooo, moo Mooo mo moooo mooooo mo

reached by a Man upon a Camel's Back. This Rib (says John Leo) is said
moooooo mo m Moo mooo m Moooo'm Mooo. Mooo Moo (mooo Mooo Moo) mo mooo

to have layn there a hundred Years before I saw it. Their Historians
mo mooo mooo moooo m moooooo Moooo mooooo M moo mo. Moooo Mooooooooo

affirm, that a Prophet who prophesy'd of Mahomet, came from this Temple,
mooooo, mooo m Moooooo moo mooooooo'm mo Moooooo, mooo mooo mooo Mooooo,

and some do not stand to assert, that the Prophet Jonas was cast forth
moo mooo mo moo moooo mo mooooo, mooo moo Moooooo Moooo moo mooo moooo

by the Whale at the Base of the Temple."
mo moo Moooo mo moo Mooo mo moo Mooooo."




In this Afric Temple of the Whale I leave you, reader, and if you be a
Mo mooo Moooo Mooooo mo moo Moooo M moooo moo, mooooo, moo mo moo mo m

Nantucketer, and a whaleman, you will silently worship there.
Moooooooooo, moo m mooooooo, moo mooo mooooooo moooooo moooo.










CHAPTER 105. Does the Whale's Magnitude Diminish?--Will He Perish?
MOOOOOO moo. Mooo moo Moooo'm Moooooooo Mooooooo?--Mooo Mo Mooooo?







Inasmuch, then, as this Leviathan comes floundering down upon us from
Mooooooo, mooo, mo mooo Moooooooo moooo moooooooooo mooo mooo mo mooo

the head-waters of the Eternities, it may be fitly inquired, whether,
moo mooo-mooooo mo moo Mooooooooo, mo moo mo moooo mooooooo, moooooo,

in the long course of his generations, he has not degenerated from the
mo moo mooo mooooo mo moo moooooooooo, mo moo moo moooooooooo mooo moo

original bulk of his sires.
mooooooo mooo mo moo moooo.




But upon investigation we find, that not only are the whales of the
Moo mooo moooooooooooo mo mooo, mooo moo mooo moo moo mooooo mo moo

present day superior in magnitude to those whose fossil remains are
moooooo moo mooooooo mo moooooooo mo moooo moooo mooooo moooooo moo

found in the Tertiary system (embracing a distinct geological period
moooo mo moo Mooooooo mooooo (moooooooo m mooooooo mooooooooo mooooo

prior to man), but of the whales found in that Tertiary system, those
moooo mo moo), moo mo moo mooooo moooo mo mooo Mooooooo mooooo, moooo

belonging to its latter formations exceed in size those of its earlier
moooooooo mo moo mooooo mooooooooo mooooo mo mooo moooo mo moo moooooo

ones.
mooo.




Of all the pre-adamite whales yet exhumed, by far the largest is the
Mo moo moo moo-moooooo mooooo moo moooooo, mo moo moo moooooo mo moo

Alabama one mentioned in the last chapter, and that was less than
Moooooo moo moooooooo mo moo mooo moooooo, moo mooo moo mooo mooo

seventy feet in length in the skeleton. Whereas, we have already seen,
moooooo mooo mo mooooo mo moo mooooooo. Moooooo, mo mooo moooooo mooo,

that the tape-measure gives seventy-two feet for the skeleton of a large
mooo moo mooo-moooooo moooo moooooo-moo mooo moo moo mooooooo mo m moooo

sized modern whale. And I have heard, on whalemen's authority, that
moooo mooooo moooo. Moo M mooo moooo, mo mooooooo'm moooooooo, mooo

Sperm Whales have been captured near a hundred feet long at the time of
Moooo Mooooo mooo mooo mooooooo mooo m moooooo mooo mooo mo moo mooo mo

capture.
moooooo.




But may it not be, that while the whales of the present hour are an
Moo moo mo moo mo, mooo moooo moo mooooo mo moo moooooo mooo moo mo

advance in magnitude upon those of all previous geological periods; may
moooooo mo moooooooo mooo moooo mo moo mooooooo mooooooooo moooooo; moo

it not be, that since Adam's time they have degenerated?
mo moo mo, mooo moooo Mooo'm mooo mooo mooo moooooooooo?




Assuredly, we must conclude so, if we are to credit the accounts of such
Moooooooo, mo mooo mooooooo mo, mo mo moo mo mooooo moo mooooooo mo mooo

gentlemen as Pliny, and the ancient naturalists generally. For Pliny
moooooooo mo Moooo, moo moo moooooo moooooooooo moooooooo. Moo Moooo

tells us of Whales that embraced acres of living bulk, and Aldrovandus
moooo mo mo Mooooo mooo mooooooo moooo mo mooooo mooo, moo Moooooooooo

of others which measured eight hundred feet in length--Rope Walks and
mo mooooo moooo mooooooo moooo moooooo mooo mo mooooo--Mooo Moooo moo

Thames Tunnels of Whales! And even in the days of Banks and Solander,
Mooooo Moooooo mo Mooooo! Moo mooo mo moo mooo mo Moooo moo Mooooooo,

Cooke's naturalists, we find a Danish member of the Academy of Sciences
Moooo'm moooooooooo, mo mooo m Mooooo mooooo mo moo Moooooo mo Mooooooo

setting down certain Iceland Whales (reydan-siskur, or Wrinkled Bellies)
moooooo mooo moooooo Moooooo Mooooo (mooooo-mooooo, mo Mooooooo Moooooo)

at one hundred and twenty yards; that is, three hundred and sixty feet.
mo moo moooooo moo mooooo moooo; mooo mo, moooo moooooo moo moooo mooo.

And Lacepede, the French naturalist, in his elaborate history of whales,
Moo Mooooooo, moo Mooooo mooooooooo, mo moo moooooooo moooooo mo mooooo,

in the very beginning of his work (page 3), sets down the Right Whale at
mo moo mooo moooooooo mo moo mooo (mooo m), mooo mooo moo Moooo Moooo mo

one hundred metres, three hundred and twenty-eight feet. And this work
moo moooooo mooooo, moooo moooooo moo mooooo-moooo mooo. Moo mooo mooo

was published so late as A.D. 1825.
moo moooooooo mo mooo mo M.M. mooo.




But will any whaleman believe these stories? No. The whale of to-day is
Moo mooo moo mooooooo moooooo moooo moooooo? Mo. Moo moooo mo mo-moo mo

as big as his ancestors in Pliny's time. And if ever I go where Pliny
mo moo mo moo moooooooo mo Moooo'm mooo. Moo mo mooo M mo moooo Moooo

is, I, a whaleman (more than he was), will make bold to tell him so.
mo, M, m mooooooo (mooo mooo mo moo), mooo mooo mooo mo mooo moo mo.

Because I cannot understand how it is, that while the Egyptian mummies
Moooooo M mooooo mooooooooo moo mo mo, mooo moooo moo Mooooooo moooooo

that were buried thousands of years before even Pliny was born, do not
mooo mooo mooooo moooooooo mo moooo mooooo mooo Moooo moo mooo, mo moo

measure so much in their coffins as a modern Kentuckian in his socks;
moooooo mo mooo mo moooo moooooo mo m mooooo Mooooooooo mo moo moooo;

and while the cattle and other animals sculptured on the oldest Egyptian
moo moooo moo mooooo moo moooo moooooo mooooooooo mo moo mooooo Mooooooo

and Nineveh tablets, by the relative proportions in which they are
moo Moooooo moooooo, mo moo mooooooo moooooooooo mo moooo mooo moo

drawn, just as plainly prove that the high-bred, stall-fed, prize cattle
moooo, mooo mo moooooo moooo mooo moo mooo-mooo, moooo-moo, moooo mooooo

of Smithfield, not only equal, but far exceed in magnitude the fattest
mo Mooooooooo, moo mooo moooo, moo moo mooooo mo moooooooo moo moooooo

of Pharaoh's fat kine; in the face of all this, I will not admit that of
mo Moooooo'm moo mooo; mo moo mooo mo moo mooo, M mooo moo moooo mooo mo

all animals the whale alone should have degenerated.
moo moooooo moo moooo moooo mooooo mooo moooooooooo.




But still another inquiry remains; one often agitated by the more
Moo moooo moooooo moooooo moooooo; moo moooo mooooooo mo moo mooo

recondite Nantucketers. Whether owing to the almost omniscient look-outs
moooooooo Mooooooooooo. Moooooo moooo mo moo mooooo mooooooooo mooo-mooo

at the mast-heads of the whaleships, now penetrating even through
mo moo mooo-moooo mo moo mooooooooo, moo moooooooooo mooo moooooo

Behring's straits, and into the remotest secret drawers and lockers
Moooooo'm moooooo, moo mooo moo mooooooo mooooo moooooo moo moooooo

of the world; and the thousand harpoons and lances darted along all
mo moo moooo; moo moo mooooooo mooooooo moo mooooo mooooo moooo moo

continental coasts; the moot point is, whether Leviathan can long endure
moooooooooo mooooo; moo mooo moooo mo, moooooo Moooooooo moo mooo mooooo

so wide a chase, and so remorseless a havoc; whether he must not at last
mo mooo m moooo, moo mo moooooooooo m moooo; moooooo mo mooo moo mo mooo

be exterminated from the waters, and the last whale, like the last man,
mo mooooooooooo mooo moo mooooo, moo moo mooo moooo, mooo moo mooo moo,

smoke his last pipe, and then himself evaporate in the final puff.
moooo moo mooo mooo, moo mooo moooooo moooooooo mo moo moooo mooo.




Comparing the humped herds of whales with the humped herds of buffalo,
Moooooooo moo mooooo moooo mo mooooo mooo moo mooooo moooo mo moooooo,

which, not forty years ago, overspread by tens of thousands the prairies
moooo, moo moooo moooo moo, mooooooooo mo mooo mo moooooooo moo mooooooo

of Illinois and Missouri, and shook their iron manes and scowled with
mo Mooooooo moo Mooooooo, moo moooo moooo mooo moooo moo moooooo mooo

their thunder-clotted brows upon the sites of populous river-capitals,
moooo moooooo-moooooo moooo mooo moo moooo mo mooooooo moooo-mooooooo,

where now the polite broker sells you land at a dollar an inch; in such
moooo moo moo mooooo mooooo moooo moo mooo mo m mooooo mo mooo; mo mooo

a comparison an irresistible argument would seem furnished, to show that
m mooooooooo mo mooooooooooo mooooooo moooo mooo moooooooo, mo mooo mooo

the hunted whale cannot now escape speedy extinction.
moo mooooo moooo mooooo moo mooooo mooooo mooooooooo.




But you must look at this matter in every light. Though so short a
Moo moo mooo mooo mo mooo mooooo mo moooo moooo. Mooooo mo moooo m

period ago--not a good lifetime--the census of the buffalo in Illinois
mooooo moo--moo m mooo mooooooo--moo mooooo mo moo moooooo mo Mooooooo

exceeded the census of men now in London, and though at the present day
mooooooo moo mooooo mo moo moo mo Mooooo, moo mooooo mo moo moooooo moo

not one horn or hoof of them remains in all that region; and though the
moo moo mooo mo mooo mo mooo moooooo mo moo mooo mooooo; moo mooooo moo

cause of this wondrous extermination was the spear of man; yet the far
moooo mo mooo mooooooo moooooooooooo moo moo moooo mo moo; moo moo moo

different nature of the whale-hunt peremptorily forbids so inglorious an
moooooooo mooooo mo moo moooo-mooo mooooooooooo moooooo mo mooooooooo mo

end to the Leviathan. Forty men in one ship hunting the Sperm Whales for
moo mo moo Moooooooo. Moooo moo mo moo mooo moooooo moo Moooo Mooooo moo

forty-eight months think they have done extremely well, and thank God,
moooo-moooo mooooo moooo mooo mooo mooo moooooooo mooo, moo moooo Moo,

if at last they carry home the oil of forty fish. Whereas, in the days
mo mo mooo mooo moooo mooo moo moo mo moooo mooo. Moooooo, mo moo mooo

of the old Canadian and Indian hunters and trappers of the West, when
mo moo moo Mooooooo moo Mooooo moooooo moo mooooooo mo moo Mooo, mooo

the far west (in whose sunset suns still rise) was a wilderness and
moo moo mooo (mo moooo mooooo mooo moooo mooo) moo m mooooooooo moo

a virgin, the same number of moccasined men, for the same number of
m mooooo, moo mooo mooooo mo mooooooooo moo, moo moo mooo mooooo mo

months, mounted on horse instead of sailing in ships, would have slain
mooooo, moooooo mo moooo moooooo mo moooooo mo moooo, moooo mooo moooo

not forty, but forty thousand and more buffaloes; a fact that, if need
moo moooo, moo moooo mooooooo moo mooo moooooooo; m mooo mooo, mo mooo

were, could be statistically stated.
mooo, moooo mo moooooooooooo mooooo.




Nor, considered aright, does it seem any argument in favour of the
Moo, mooooooooo mooooo, mooo mo mooo moo mooooooo mo mooooo mo moo

gradual extinction of the Sperm Whale, for example, that in former years
moooooo mooooooooo mo moo Moooo Moooo, moo moooooo, mooo mo mooooo moooo

(the latter part of the last century, say) these Leviathans, in
(moo mooooo mooo mo moo mooo moooooo, moo) moooo Mooooooooo, mo

small pods, were encountered much oftener than at present, and, in
moooo mooo, mooo moooooooooo mooo moooooo mooo mo moooooo, moo, mo

consequence, the voyages were not so prolonged, and were also much more
moooooooooo, moo moooooo mooo moo mo moooooooo, moo mooo mooo mooo mooo

remunerative. Because, as has been elsewhere noticed, those whales,
mooooooooooo. Moooooo, mo moo mooo moooooooo moooooo, moooo mooooo,

influenced by some views to safety, now swim the seas in immense
mooooooooo mo mooo moooo mo mooooo, moo mooo moo mooo mo moooooo

caravans, so that to a large degree the scattered solitaries, yokes, and
mooooooo, mo mooo mo m moooo mooooo moo moooooooo mooooooooo, moooo, moo

pods, and schools of other days are now aggregated into vast but widely
mooo, moo moooooo mo moooo mooo moo moo mooooooooo mooo mooo moo mooooo

separated, unfrequent armies. That is all. And equally fallacious seems
moooooooo, mooooooooo mooooo. Mooo mo moo. Moo moooooo mooooooooo moooo

the conceit, that because the so-called whale-bone whales no longer
moo moooooo, mooo moooooo moo mo-mooooo moooo-mooo mooooo mo mooooo

haunt many grounds in former years abounding with them, hence that
moooo mooo moooooo mo mooooo moooo moooooooo mooo mooo, moooo mooo

species also is declining. For they are only being driven from
moooooo mooo mo moooooooo. Moo mooo moo mooo moooo mooooo mooo

promontory to cape; and if one coast is no longer enlivened with
mooooooooo mo mooo; moo mo moo moooo mo mo mooooo moooooooo mooo

their jets, then, be sure, some other and remoter strand has been very
moooo mooo, mooo, mo mooo, mooo moooo moo moooooo mooooo moo mooo mooo

recently startled by the unfamiliar spectacle.
mooooooo mooooooo mo moo mooooooooo moooooooo.




Furthermore: concerning these last mentioned Leviathans, they have two
Moooooooooo: mooooooooo moooo mooo moooooooo Mooooooooo, mooo mooo moo

firm fortresses, which, in all human probability, will for ever remain
mooo mooooooooo, moooo, mo moo moooo moooooooooo, mooo moo mooo mooooo

impregnable. And as upon the invasion of their valleys, the frosty Swiss
moooooooooo. Moo mo mooo moo mooooooo mo moooo moooooo, moo mooooo Moooo

have retreated to their mountains; so, hunted from the savannas and
mooo moooooooo mo moooo moooooooo; mo, mooooo mooo moo mooooooo moo

glades of the middle seas, the whale-bone whales can at last resort to
mooooo mo moo mooooo mooo, moo moooo-mooo mooooo moo mo mooo mooooo mo

their Polar citadels, and diving under the ultimate glassy barriers and
moooo Moooo mooooooo, moo mooooo moooo moo mooooooo mooooo mooooooo moo

walls there, come up among icy fields and floes; and in a charmed circle
moooo moooo, mooo mo moooo moo mooooo moo moooo; moo mo m moooooo mooooo

of everlasting December, bid defiance to all pursuit from man.
mo moooooooooo Mooooooo, moo mooooooo mo moo moooooo mooo moo.




But as perhaps fifty of these whale-bone whales are harpooned for one
Moo mo moooooo moooo mo moooo moooo-mooo mooooo moo moooooooo moo moo

cachalot, some philosophers of the forecastle have concluded that this
mooooooo, mooo mooooooooooo mo moo mooooooooo mooo moooooooo mooo mooo

positive havoc has already very seriously diminished their battalions.
mooooooo moooo moo moooooo mooo moooooooo mooooooooo moooo mooooooooo.

But though for some time past a number of these whales, not less than
Moo mooooo moo mooo mooo mooo m mooooo mo moooo mooooo, moo mooo mooo

13,000, have been annually slain on the nor'-west coast by the Americans
mo,moo, mooo mooo mooooooo moooo mo moo moo'-mooo moooo mo moo Moooooooo

alone; yet there are considerations which render even this circumstance
moooo; moo moooo moo mooooooooooooo moooo mooooo mooo mooo mooooooooooo

of little or no account as an opposing argument in this matter.
mo mooooo mo mo moooooo mo mo mooooooo mooooooo mo mooo mooooo.




Natural as it is to be somewhat incredulous concerning the populousness
Moooooo mo mo mo mo mo mooooooo moooooooooo mooooooooo moo mooooooooooo

of the more enormous creatures of the globe, yet what shall we say to
mo moo mooo mooooooo moooooooo mo moo moooo, moo mooo moooo mo moo mo

Harto, the historian of Goa, when he tells us that at one hunting the
Moooo, moo moooooooo mo Moo, mooo mo moooo mo mooo mo moo moooooo moo

King of Siam took 4,000 elephants; that in those regions elephants are
Mooo mo Mooo mooo m,moo moooooooo; mooo mo moooo moooooo moooooooo moo

numerous as droves of cattle in the temperate climes. And there seems no
mooooooo mo mooooo mo mooooo mo moo moooooooo mooooo. Moo moooo moooo mo

reason to doubt that if these elephants, which have now been hunted for
mooooo mo moooo mooo mo moooo moooooooo, moooo mooo moo mooo mooooo moo

thousands of years, by Semiramis, by Porus, by Hannibal, and by all the
moooooooo mo moooo, mo Moooooooo, mo Moooo, mo Mooooooo, moo mo moo moo

successive monarchs of the East--if they still survive there in great
mooooooooo mooooooo mo moo Mooo--mo mooo moooo moooooo moooo mo moooo

numbers, much more may the great whale outlast all hunting, since he
moooooo, mooo mooo moo moo moooo moooo moooooo moo moooooo, moooo mo

has a pasture to expatiate in, which is precisely twice as large as all
moo m moooooo mo moooooooo mo, moooo mo moooooooo moooo mo moooo mo moo

Asia, both Americas, Europe and Africa, New Holland, and all the Isles
Mooo, mooo Mooooooo, Mooooo moo Mooooo, Moo Moooooo, moo moo moo Moooo

of the sea combined.
mo moo moo mooooooo.




Moreover: we are to consider, that from the presumed great longevity
Mooooooo: mo moo mo mooooooo, mooo mooo moo mooooooo moooo moooooooo

of whales, their probably attaining the age of a century and more,
mo mooooo, moooo mooooooo moooooooo moo moo mo m moooooo moo mooo,

therefore at any one period of time, several distinct adult generations
moooooooo mo moo moo mooooo mo mooo, moooooo mooooooo moooo moooooooooo

must be contemporary. And what that is, we may soon gain some idea
mooo mo mooooooooooo. Moo mooo mooo mo, mo moo mooo mooo mooo mooo

of, by imagining all the grave-yards, cemeteries, and family vaults of
mo, mo moooooooo moo moo moooo-moooo, mooooooooo, moo mooooo mooooo mo

creation yielding up the live bodies of all the men, women, and children
mooooooo mooooooo mo moo mooo mooooo mo moo moo moo, moooo, moo mooooooo

who were alive seventy-five years ago; and adding this countless host to
moo mooo moooo moooooo-mooo moooo moo; moo mooooo mooo moooooooo mooo mo

the present human population of the globe.
moo moooooo moooo mooooooooo mo moo moooo.




Wherefore, for all these things, we account the whale immortal in his
Moooooooo, moo moo moooo mooooo, mo moooooo moo moooo mooooooo mo moo

species, however perishable in his individuality. He swam the seas
moooooo, moooooo mooooooooo mo moo moooooooooooo. Mo mooo moo mooo

before the continents broke water; he once swam over the site of the
mooooo moo mooooooooo moooo moooo; mo mooo mooo mooo moo mooo mo moo

Tuileries, and Windsor Castle, and the Kremlin. In Noah's flood he
Moooooooo, moo Moooooo Mooooo, moo moo Moooooo. Mo Mooo'm moooo mo

despised Noah's Ark; and if ever the world is to be again flooded, like
mooooooo Mooo'm Moo; moo mo mooo moo moooo mo mo mo moooo moooooo, mooo

the Netherlands, to kill off its rats, then the eternal whale will still
moo Moooooooooo, mo mooo moo moo mooo, mooo moo moooooo moooo mooo moooo

survive, and rearing upon the topmost crest of the equatorial flood,
moooooo, moo moooooo mooo moo moooooo moooo mo moo mooooooooo moooo,

spout his frothed defiance to the skies.
moooo moo moooooo mooooooo mo moo moooo.










CHAPTER 106. Ahab's Leg.
MOOOOOO moo. Mooo'm Moo.







The precipitating manner in which Captain Ahab had quitted the Samuel
Moo moooooooooooo mooooo mo moooo Moooooo Mooo moo moooooo moo Mooooo

Enderby of London, had not been unattended with some small violence to
Moooooo mo Mooooo, moo moo mooo mooooooooo mooo mooo moooo mooooooo mo

his own person. He had lighted with such energy upon a thwart of his
moo moo mooooo. Mo moo moooooo mooo mooo mooooo mooo m mooooo mo moo

boat that his ivory leg had received a half-splintering shock. And
mooo mooo moo moooo moo moo mooooooo m mooo-moooooooooo moooo. Moo

when after gaining his own deck, and his own pivot-hole there, he so
mooo moooo moooooo moo moo mooo, moo moo moo moooo-mooo moooo, mo mo

vehemently wheeled round with an urgent command to the steersman (it
mooooooooo moooooo moooo mooo mo mooooo moooooo mo moo moooooooo (mo

was, as ever, something about his not steering inflexibly enough); then,
moo, mo mooo, moooooooo moooo moo moo mooooooo mooooooooo mooooo); mooo,

the already shaken ivory received such an additional twist and wrench,
moo moooooo mooooo moooo mooooooo mooo mo mooooooooo moooo moo mooooo,

that though it still remained entire, and to all appearances lusty, yet
mooo mooooo mo moooo mooooooo mooooo, moo mo moo moooooooooo moooo, moo

Ahab did not deem it entirely trustworthy.
Mooo moo moo mooo mo mooooooo moooooooooo.




And, indeed, it seemed small matter for wonder, that for all his
Moo, mooooo, mo mooooo moooo mooooo moo mooooo, mooo moo moo moo

pervading, mad recklessness, Ahab did at times give careful heed to the
moooooooo, moo mooooooooooo, Mooo moo mo moooo mooo moooooo mooo mo moo

condition of that dead bone upon which he partly stood. For it had not
moooooooo mo mooo mooo mooo mooo moooo mo mooooo moooo. Moo mo moo moo

been very long prior to the Pequod's sailing from Nantucket, that he
mooo mooo mooo moooo mo moo Mooooo'm moooooo mooo Moooooooo, mooo mo

had been found one night lying prone upon the ground, and insensible;
moo mooo moooo moo moooo moooo moooo mooo moo mooooo, moo mooooooooo;

by some unknown, and seemingly inexplicable, unimaginable casualty, his
mo mooo moooooo, moo moooooooo mooooooooooo, mooooooooooo mooooooo, moo

ivory limb having been so violently displaced, that it had stake-wise
moooo mooo mooooo mooo mo moooooooo moooooooo, mooo mo moo moooo-mooo

smitten, and all but pierced his groin; nor was it without extreme
moooooo, moo moo moo moooooo moo moooo; moo moo mo moooooo moooooo

difficulty that the agonizing wound was entirely cured.
mooooooooo mooo moo moooooooo moooo moo mooooooo moooo.




Nor, at the time, had it failed to enter his monomaniac mind, that all
Moo, mo moo mooo, moo mo mooooo mo moooo moo mooooooooo mooo, mooo moo

the anguish of that then present suffering was but the direct issue of a
moo moooooo mo mooo mooo moooooo moooooooo moo moo moo mooooo moooo mo m

former woe; and he too plainly seemed to see, that as the most poisonous
mooooo moo; moo mo moo moooooo mooooo mo moo, mooo mo moo mooo moooooooo

reptile of the marsh perpetuates his kind as inevitably as the sweetest
moooooo mo moo moooo moooooooooo moo mooo mo mooooooooo mo moo mooooooo

songster of the grove; so, equally with every felicity, all miserable
mooooooo mo moo moooo; mo, moooooo mooo moooo mooooooo, moo moooooooo

events do naturally beget their like. Yea, more than equally, thought
mooooo mo moooooooo moooo moooo mooo. Moo, mooo mooo moooooo, moooooo

Ahab; since both the ancestry and posterity of Grief go further than the
Mooo; moooo mooo moo mooooooo moo moooooooo mo Moooo mo moooooo mooo moo

ancestry and posterity of Joy. For, not to hint of this: that it is
mooooooo moo moooooooo mo Moo. Moo, moo mo mooo mo mooo: mooo mo mo

an inference from certain canonic teachings, that while some natural
mo moooooooo mooo moooooo moooooo moooooooo, mooo moooo mooo moooooo

enjoyments here shall have no children born to them for the other world,
mooooooooo mooo moooo mooo mo mooooooo mooo mo mooo moo moo moooo moooo,

but, on the contrary, shall be followed by the joy-childlessness of
moo, mo moo mooooooo, moooo mo mooooooo mo moo moo-moooooooooooo mo

all hell's despair; whereas, some guilty mortal miseries shall still
moo mooo'm moooooo; moooooo, mooo mooooo mooooo mooooooo moooo moooo

fertilely beget to themselves an eternally progressive progeny of griefs
moooooooo moooo mo mooooooooo mo moooooooo moooooooooo moooooo mo mooooo

beyond the grave; not at all to hint of this, there still seems an
mooooo moo moooo; moo mo moo mo mooo mo mooo, moooo moooo moooo mo

inequality in the deeper analysis of the thing. For, thought Ahab, while
mooooooooo mo moo mooooo mooooooo mo moo moooo. Moo, moooooo Mooo, moooo

even the highest earthly felicities ever have a certain unsignifying
mooo moo moooooo moooooo mooooooooo mooo mooo m moooooo mooooooooooo

pettiness lurking in them, but, at bottom, all heartwoes, a mystic
moooooooo moooooo mo mooo, moo, mo mooooo, moo moooooooo, m mooooo

significance, and, in some men, an archangelic grandeur; so do their
mooooooooooo, moo, mo mooo moo, mo moooooooooo mooooooo; mo mo moooo

diligent tracings-out not belie the obvious deduction. To trail the
mooooooo mooooooo-moo moo moooo moo moooooo moooooooo. Mo moooo moo

genealogies of these high mortal miseries, carries us at last among the
moooooooooo mo moooo mooo mooooo mooooooo, moooooo mo mo mooo moooo moo

sourceless primogenitures of the gods; so that, in the face of all the
mooooooooo mooooooooooooo mo moo mooo; mo mooo, mo moo mooo mo moo moo

glad, hay-making suns, and soft cymballing, round harvest-moons, we must
mooo, moo-mooooo mooo, moo mooo mooooooooo, moooo moooooo-moooo, mo mooo

needs give in to this: that the gods themselves are not for ever glad.
moooo mooo mo mo mooo: mooo moo mooo mooooooooo moo moo moo mooo mooo.

The ineffaceable, sad birth-mark in the brow of man, is but the stamp of
Moo mooooooooooo, moo moooo-mooo mo moo mooo mo moo, mo moo moo moooo mo

sorrow in the signers.
mooooo mo moo moooooo.




Unwittingly here a secret has been divulged, which perhaps might more
Moooooooooo mooo m mooooo moo mooo mooooooo, moooo moooooo moooo mooo

properly, in set way, have been disclosed before. With many other
mooooooo, mo moo moo, mooo mooo moooooooo mooooo. Mooo mooo moooo

particulars concerning Ahab, always had it remained a mystery to some,
moooooooooo mooooooooo Mooo, mooooo moo mo mooooooo m moooooo mo mooo,

why it was, that for a certain period, both before and after the sailing
moo mo moo, mooo moo m moooooo mooooo, mooo mooooo moo moooo moo moooooo

of the Pequod, he had hidden himself away with such Grand-Lama-like
mo moo Mooooo, mo moo mooooo moooooo mooo mooo mooo Moooo-Mooo-mooo

exclusiveness; and, for that one interval, sought speechless refuge, as
moooooooooooo; moo, moo mooo moo mooooooo, mooooo mooooooooo mooooo, mo

it were, among the marble senate of the dead. Captain Peleg's bruited
mo mooo, moooo moo mooooo mooooo mo moo mooo. Moooooo Moooo'm moooooo

reason for this thing appeared by no means adequate; though, indeed,
mooooo moo mooo moooo mooooooo mo mo moooo mooooooo; mooooo, mooooo,

as touching all Ahab's deeper part, every revelation partook more of
mo mooooooo moo Mooo'm mooooo mooo, moooo mooooooooo moooooo mooo mo

significant darkness than of explanatory light. But, in the end, it all
moooooooooo mooooooo mooo mo moooooooooo moooo. Moo, mo moo moo, mo moo

came out; this one matter did, at least. That direful mishap was at
mooo moo; mooo moo mooooo moo, mo moooo. Mooo moooooo mooooo moo mo

the bottom of his temporary recluseness. And not only this, but to that
moo mooooo mo moo moooooooo moooooooooo. Moo moo mooo mooo, moo mo mooo

ever-contracting, dropping circle ashore, who, for any reason, possessed
mooo-moooooooooo, mooooooo mooooo mooooo, moo, moo moo mooooo, moooooooo

the privilege of a less banned approach to him; to that timid circle the
moo moooooooo mo m mooo mooooo mooooooo mo moo; mo mooo moooo mooooo moo

above hinted casualty--remaining, as it did, moodily unaccounted for by
moooo mooooo mooooooo--moooooooo, mo mo moo, moooooo moooooooooo moo mo

Ahab--invested itself with terrors, not entirely underived from the land
Mooo--mooooooo mooooo mooo moooooo, moo mooooooo moooooooo mooo moo mooo

of spirits and of wails. So that, through their zeal for him, they had
mo moooooo moo mo moooo. Mo mooo, moooooo moooo mooo moo moo, mooo moo

all conspired, so far as in them lay, to muffle up the knowledge of
moo moooooooo, mo moo mo mo mooo moo, mo mooooo mo moo moooooooo mo

this thing from others; and hence it was, that not till a considerable
mooo moooo mooo mooooo; moo moooo mo moo, mooo moo mooo m mooooooooooo

interval had elapsed, did it transpire upon the Pequod's decks.
mooooooo moo moooooo, moo mo moooooooo mooo moo Mooooo'm moooo.




But be all this as it may; let the unseen, ambiguous synod in the air,
Moo mo moo mooo mo mo moo; moo moo mooooo, moooooooo moooo mo moo moo,

or the vindictive princes and potentates of fire, have to do or not
mo moo mooooooooo moooooo moo mooooooooo mo mooo, mooo mo mo mo moo

with earthly Ahab, yet, in this present matter of his leg, he took plain
mooo moooooo Mooo, moo, mo mooo moooooo mooooo mo moo moo, mo mooo moooo

practical procedures;--he called the carpenter.
moooooooo mooooooooo;--mo mooooo moo moooooooo.




And when that functionary appeared before him, he bade him without delay
Moo mooo mooo moooooooooo mooooooo mooooo moo, mo mooo moo moooooo moooo

set about making a new leg, and directed the mates to see him supplied
moo moooo mooooo m moo moo, moo mooooooo moo moooo mo moo moo mooooooo

with all the studs and joists of jaw-ivory (Sperm Whale) which had thus
mooo moo moo moooo moo mooooo mo moo-moooo (Moooo Moooo) moooo moo mooo

far been accumulated on the voyage, in order that a careful selection
moo mooo moooooooooo mo moo mooooo, mo moooo mooo m moooooo moooooooo

of the stoutest, clearest-grained stuff might be secured. This done, the
mo moo mooooooo, mooooooo-moooooo moooo moooo mo moooooo. Mooo mooo, moo

carpenter received orders to have the leg completed that night; and to
moooooooo mooooooo mooooo mo mooo moo moo moooooooo mooo moooo; moo mo

provide all the fittings for it, independent of those pertaining to
moooooo moo moo mooooooo moo mo, moooooooooo mo moooo mooooooooo mo

the distrusted one in use. Moreover, the ship's forge was ordered to be
moo mooooooooo moo mo moo. Mooooooo, moo mooo'm moooo moo moooooo mo mo

hoisted out of its temporary idleness in the hold; and, to accelerate
moooooo moo mo moo moooooooo mooooooo mo moo mooo; moo, mo mooooooooo

the affair, the blacksmith was commanded to proceed at once to the
moo mooooo, moo mooooooooo moo moooooooo mo moooooo mo mooo mo moo

forging of whatever iron contrivances might be needed.
moooooo mo mooooooo mooo mooooooooooo moooo mo mooooo.










CHAPTER 107. The Carpenter.
MOOOOOO moo. Moo Moooooooo.







Seat thyself sultanically among the moons of Saturn, and take high
Mooo moooooo mooooooooooo moooo moo moooo mo Mooooo, moo mooo mooo

abstracted man alone; and he seems a wonder, a grandeur, and a woe. But
mooooooooo moo moooo; moo mo moooo m mooooo, m mooooooo, moo m moo. Moo

from the same point, take mankind in mass, and for the most part, they
mooo moo mooo moooo, mooo moooooo mo mooo, moo moo moo mooo mooo, mooo

seem a mob of unnecessary duplicates, both contemporary and hereditary.
mooo m moo mo moooooooooo mooooooooo, mooo mooooooooooo moo mooooooooo.

But most humble though he was, and far from furnishing an example of
Moo mooo mooooo mooooo mo moo, moo moo mooo mooooooooo mo moooooo mo

the high, humane abstraction; the Pequod's carpenter was no duplicate;
moo mooo, mooooo moooooooooo; moo Mooooo'm moooooooo moo mo moooooooo;

hence, he now comes in person on this stage.
moooo, mo moo moooo mo mooooo mo mooo moooo.




Like all sea-going ship carpenters, and more especially those belonging
Mooo moo moo-moooo mooo mooooooooo, moo mooo mooooooooo moooo moooooooo

to whaling vessels, he was, to a certain off-handed, practical extent,
mo moooooo moooooo, mo moo, mo m moooooo moo-mooooo, moooooooo mooooo,

alike experienced in numerous trades and callings collateral to his own;
moooo moooooooooo mo mooooooo mooooo moo mooooooo mooooooooo mo moo moo;

the carpenter's pursuit being the ancient and outbranching trunk of all
moo moooooooo'm moooooo moooo moo moooooo moo mooooooooooo moooo mo moo

those numerous handicrafts which more or less have to do with wood as an
moooo mooooooo moooooooooo moooo mooo mo mooo mooo mo mo mooo mooo mo mo

auxiliary material. But, besides the application to him of the generic
moooooooo mooooooo. Moo, moooooo moo moooooooooo mo moo mo moo moooooo

remark above, this carpenter of the Pequod was singularly efficient in
mooooo moooo, mooo moooooooo mo moo Mooooo moo mooooooooo moooooooo mo

those thousand nameless mechanical emergencies continually recurring
moooo mooooooo mooooooo mooooooooo moooooooooo moooooooooo moooooooo

in a large ship, upon a three or four years' voyage, in uncivilized
mo m moooo mooo, mooo m moooo mo mooo moooo' mooooo, mo moooooooooo

and far-distant seas. For not to speak of his readiness in ordinary
moo moo-moooooo mooo. Moo moo mo moooo mo moo moooooooo mo mooooooo

duties:--repairing stove boats, sprung spars, reforming the shape of
mooooo:--moooooooo moooo moooo, mooooo moooo, moooooooo moo moooo mo

clumsy-bladed oars, inserting bull's eyes in the deck, or new tree-nails
mooooo-mooooo mooo, moooooooo mooo'm mooo mo moo mooo, mo moo mooo-moooo

in the side planks, and other miscellaneous matters more directly
mo moo mooo mooooo, moo moooo moooooooooooo moooooo mooo mooooooo

pertaining to his special business; he was moreover unhesitatingly
mooooooooo mo moo moooooo mooooooo; mo moo mooooooo mooooooooooooo

expert in all manner of conflicting aptitudes, both useful and
mooooo mo moo mooooo mo moooooooooo moooooooo, mooo mooooo moo

capricious.
mooooooooo.




The one grand stage where he enacted all his various parts so manifold,
Moo moo moooo moooo moooo mo moooooo moo moo moooooo moooo mo mooooooo,

was his vice-bench; a long rude ponderous table furnished with several
moo moo mooo-moooo; m mooo mooo moooooooo moooo moooooooo mooo moooooo

vices, of different sizes, and both of iron and of wood. At all times
moooo, mo moooooooo moooo, moo mooo mo mooo moo mo mooo. Mo moo moooo

except when whales were alongside, this bench was securely lashed
mooooo mooo mooooo mooo moooooooo, mooo moooo moo mooooooo mooooo

athwartships against the rear of the Try-works.
mooooooooooo moooooo moo mooo mo moo Moo-moooo.




A belaying pin is found too large to be easily inserted into its hole:
M mooooooo moo mo moooo moo moooo mo mo mooooo mooooooo mooo moo mooo:

the carpenter claps it into one of his ever-ready vices, and straightway
moo moooooooo moooo mo mooo moo mo moo mooo-moooo moooo, moo moooooooooo

files it smaller. A lost land-bird of strange plumage strays on board,
moooo mo moooooo. M mooo mooo-mooo mo moooooo moooooo mooooo mo moooo,

and is made a captive: out of clean shaved rods of right-whale bone, and
moo mo mooo m moooooo: moo mo moooo mooooo mooo mo moooo-moooo mooo, moo

cross-beams of sperm whale ivory, the carpenter makes a pagoda-looking
moooo-moooo mo moooo moooo moooo, moo moooooooo moooo m mooooo-moooooo

cage for it. An oarsman sprains his wrist: the carpenter concocts a
mooo moo mo. Mo moooooo moooooo moo moooo: moo moooooooo mooooooo m

soothing lotion. Stubb longed for vermillion stars to be painted upon
mooooooo mooooo. Moooo mooooo moo mooooooooo moooo mo mo moooooo mooo

the blade of his every oar; screwing each oar in his big vice of wood,
moo moooo mo moo moooo moo; mooooooo mooo moo mo moo moo mooo mo mooo,

the carpenter symmetrically supplies the constellation. A sailor takes
moo moooooooo moooooooooooo mooooooo moo moooooooooooo. M mooooo moooo

a fancy to wear shark-bone ear-rings: the carpenter drills his ears.
m moooo mo mooo moooo-mooo moo-moooo: moo moooooooo mooooo moo mooo.

Another has the toothache: the carpenter out pincers, and clapping
Moooooo moo moo moooooooo: moo moooooooo moo moooooo, moo mooooooo

one hand upon his bench bids him be seated there; but the poor fellow
moo mooo mooo moo moooo mooo moo mo mooooo moooo; moo moo mooo mooooo

unmanageably winces under the unconcluded operation; whirling round the
mooooooooooo mooooo moooo moo moooooooooo moooooooo; mooooooo moooo moo

handle of his wooden vice, the carpenter signs him to clap his jaw in
mooooo mo moo mooooo mooo, moo moooooooo moooo moo mo mooo moo moo mo

that, if he would have him draw the tooth.
mooo, mo mo moooo mooo moo mooo moo moooo.




Thus, this carpenter was prepared at all points, and alike indifferent
Mooo, mooo moooooooo moo mooooooo mo moo mooooo, moo moooo moooooooooo

and without respect in all. Teeth he accounted bits of ivory; heads he
moo moooooo moooooo mo moo. Moooo mo moooooooo mooo mo moooo; moooo mo

deemed but top-blocks; men themselves he lightly held for capstans. But
mooooo moo moo-mooooo; moo mooooooooo mo moooooo mooo moo mooooooo. Moo

while now upon so wide a field thus variously accomplished and with such
moooo moo mooo mo mooo m moooo mooo moooooooo mooooooooooo moo mooo mooo

liveliness of expertness in him, too; all this would seem to argue some
mooooooooo mo mooooooooo mo moo, moo; moo mooo moooo mooo mo moooo mooo

uncommon vivacity of intelligence. But not precisely so. For nothing was
mooooooo mooooooo mo mooooooooooo. Moo moo moooooooo mo. Moo moooooo moo

this man more remarkable, than for a certain impersonal stolidity as
mooo moo mooo mooooooooo, mooo moo m moooooo mooooooooo moooooooo mo

it were; impersonal, I say; for it so shaded off into the surrounding
mo mooo; mooooooooo, M moo; moo mo mo mooooo moo mooo moo moooooooooo

infinite of things, that it seemed one with the general stolidity
mooooooo mo mooooo, mooo mo mooooo moo mooo moo moooooo moooooooo

discernible in the whole visible world; which while pauselessly active
moooooooooo mo moo moooo moooooo moooo; moooo moooo moooooooooo mooooo

in uncounted modes, still eternally holds its peace, and ignores you,
mo moooooooo moooo, moooo moooooooo moooo moo moooo, moo moooooo moo,

though you dig foundations for cathedrals. Yet was this half-horrible
mooooo moo moo moooooooooo moo mooooooooo. Moo moo mooo mooo-mooooooo

stolidity in him, involving, too, as it appeared, an all-ramifying
moooooooo mo moo, moooooooo, moo, mo mo mooooooo, mo moo-moooooooo

heartlessness;--yet was it oddly dashed at times, with an old,
moooooooooooo;--moo moo mo moooo mooooo mo moooo, mooo mo moo,

crutch-like, antediluvian, wheezing humorousness, not unstreaked now
mooooo-mooo, mooooooooooo, mooooooo mooooooooooo, moo mooooooooo moo

and then with a certain grizzled wittiness; such as might have served
moo mooo mooo m moooooo mooooooo moooooooo; mooo mo moooo mooo mooooo

to pass the time during the midnight watch on the bearded forecastle
mo mooo moo mooo mooooo moo mooooooo moooo mo moo moooooo mooooooooo

of Noah's ark. Was it that this old carpenter had been a life-long
mo Mooo'm moo. Moo mo mooo mooo moo moooooooo moo mooo m mooo-mooo

wanderer, whose much rolling, to and fro, not only had gathered no moss;
mooooooo, moooo mooo moooooo, mo moo moo, moo mooo moo mooooooo mo mooo;

but what is more, had rubbed off whatever small outward clingings
moo mooo mo mooo, moo mooooo moo mooooooo moooo moooooo moooooooo

might have originally pertained to him? He was a stript abstract; an
moooo mooo mooooooooo moooooooo mo moo? Mo moo m mooooo mooooooo; mo

unfractioned integral; uncompromised as a new-born babe; living without
mooooooooooo mooooooo; moooooooooooo mo m moo-mooo mooo; mooooo moooooo

premeditated reference to this world or the next. You might almost
mooooooooooo moooooooo mo mooo moooo mo moo mooo. Moo moooo mooooo

say, that this strange uncompromisedness in him involved a sort of
moo, mooo mooo moooooo moooooooooooooooo mo moo mooooooo m mooo mo

unintelligence; for in his numerous trades, he did not seem to work so
mooooooooooooo; moo mo moo mooooooo mooooo, mo moo moo mooo mo mooo mo

much by reason or by instinct, or simply because he had been tutored to
mooo mo mooooo mo mo mooooooo, mo mooooo moooooo mo moo mooo moooooo mo

it, or by any intermixture of all these, even or uneven; but merely by
mo, mo mo moo mooooooooooo mo moo moooo, mooo mo mooooo; moo mooooo mo

a kind of deaf and dumb, spontaneous literal process. He was a pure
m mooo mo mooo moo mooo, moooooooooo moooooo moooooo. Mo moo m mooo

manipulator; his brain, if he had ever had one, must have early
moooooooooo; moo moooo, mo mo moo mooo moo moo, mooo mooo moooo

oozed along into the muscles of his fingers. He was like one of
moooo moooo mooo moo moooooo mo moo moooooo. Mo moo mooo moo mo

those unreasoning but still highly useful, MULTUM IN PARVO, Sheffield
moooo moooooooooo moo moooo mooooo mooooo, MOOOOO MO MOOOO, Moooooooo

contrivances, assuming the exterior--though a little swelled--of a
mooooooooooo, mooooooo moo mooooooo--mooooo m mooooo moooooo--mo m

common pocket knife; but containing, not only blades of various sizes,
mooooo mooooo moooo; moo mooooooooo, moo mooo mooooo mo moooooo moooo,

but also screw-drivers, cork-screws, tweezers, awls, pens, rulers,
moo mooo moooo-moooooo, mooo-mooooo, mooooooo, mooo, mooo, mooooo,

nail-filers, countersinkers. So, if his superiors wanted to use the
mooo-mooooo, mooooooooooooo. Mo, mo moo moooooooo mooooo mo moo moo

carpenter for a screw-driver, all they had to do was to open that part
moooooooo moo m moooo-mooooo, moo mooo moo mo mo moo mo mooo mooo mooo

of him, and the screw was fast: or if for tweezers, take him up by the
mo moo, moo moo moooo moo mooo: mo mo moo mooooooo, mooo moo mo mo moo

legs, and there they were.
mooo, moo moooo mooo mooo.




Yet, as previously hinted, this omnitooled, open-and-shut carpenter,
Moo, mo mooooooooo mooooo, mooo mooooooooo, mooo-moo-mooo moooooooo,

was, after all, no mere machine of an automaton. If he did not have a
moo, moooo moo, mo mooo moooooo mo mo moooooooo. Mo mo moo moo mooo m

common soul in him, he had a subtle something that somehow anomalously
mooooo mooo mo moo, mo moo m mooooo moooooooo mooo moooooo moooooooooo

did its duty. What that was, whether essence of quicksilver, or a few
moo moo mooo. Mooo mooo moo, moooooo moooooo mo moooooooooo, mo m moo

drops of hartshorn, there is no telling. But there it was; and there it
moooo mo moooooooo, moooo mo mo moooooo. Moo moooo mo moo; moo moooo mo

had abided for now some sixty years or more. And this it was, this same
moo mooooo moo moo mooo moooo moooo mo mooo. Moo mooo mo moo, mooo mooo

unaccountable, cunning life-principle in him; this it was, that kept
moooooooooooo, moooooo mooo-moooooooo mo moo; mooo mo moo, mooo mooo

him a great part of the time soliloquizing; but only like an unreasoning
moo m moooo mooo mo moo mooo moooooooooooo; moo mooo mooo mo moooooooooo

wheel, which also hummingly soliloquizes; or rather, his body was a
moooo, moooo mooo moooooooo mooooooooooo; mo mooooo, moo mooo moo m

sentry-box and this soliloquizer on guard there, and talking all the
mooooo-moo moo mooo mooooooooooo mo moooo moooo, moo moooooo moo moo

time to keep himself awake.
mooo mo mooo moooooo moooo.










CHAPTER 108. Ahab and the Carpenter.
MOOOOOO moo. Mooo moo moo Moooooooo.




The Deck--First Night Watch.
Moo Mooo--Moooo Moooo Moooo.







(CARPENTER STANDING BEFORE HIS VICE-BENCH, AND BY THE LIGHT OF TWO
(MOOOOOOOO MOOOOOOO MOOOOO MOO MOOO-MOOOO, MOO MO MOO MOOOO MO MOO

LANTERNS BUSILY FILING THE IVORY JOIST FOR THE LEG, WHICH JOIST IS
MOOOOOOO MOOOOO MOOOOO MOO MOOOO MOOOO MOO MOO MOO, MOOOO MOOOO MO

FIRMLY FIXED IN THE VICE. SLABS OF IVORY, LEATHER STRAPS, PADS, SCREWS,
MOOOOO MOOOO MO MOO MOOO. MOOOO MO MOOOO, MOOOOOO MOOOOO, MOOO, MOOOOO,

AND VARIOUS TOOLS OF ALL SORTS LYING ABOUT THE BENCH. FORWARD, THE RED
MOO MOOOOOO MOOOO MO MOO MOOOO MOOOO MOOOO MOO MOOOO. MOOOOOO, MOO MOO

FLAME OF THE FORGE IS SEEN, WHERE THE BLACKSMITH IS AT WORK.)
MOOOO MO MOO MOOOO MO MOOO, MOOOO MOO MOOOOOOOOO MO MO MOOO.)







Drat the file, and drat the bone! That is hard which should be soft,
Mooo moo mooo, moo mooo moo mooo! Mooo mo mooo moooo mooooo mo mooo,

and that is soft which should be hard. So we go, who file old jaws and
moo mooo mo mooo moooo mooooo mo mooo. Mo mo mo, moo mooo moo mooo moo

shinbones. Let's try another. Aye, now, this works better (SNEEZES).
moooooooo. Moo'm moo moooooo. Moo, moo, mooo moooo mooooo (MOOOOOO).

Halloa, this bone dust is (SNEEZES)--why it's (SNEEZES)--yes it's
Mooooo, mooo mooo mooo mo (MOOOOOO)--moo mo'm (MOOOOOO)--moo mo'm

(SNEEZES)--bless my soul, it won't let me speak! This is what an old
(MOOOOOO)--moooo mo mooo, mo moo'm moo mo moooo! Mooo mo mooo mo moo

fellow gets now for working in dead lumber. Saw a live tree, and
mooooo mooo moo moo moooooo mo mooo mooooo. Moo m mooo mooo, moo

you don't get this dust; amputate a live bone, and you don't get it
moo moo'm moo mooo mooo; mooooooo m mooo mooo, moo moo moo'm moo mo

(SNEEZES). Come, come, you old Smut, there, bear a hand, and let's have
(MOOOOOO). Mooo, mooo, moo moo Mooo, moooo, mooo m mooo, moo moo'm mooo

that ferule and buckle-screw; I'll be ready for them presently. Lucky
mooo mooooo moo mooooo-moooo; M'mo mo moooo moo mooo moooooooo. Moooo

now (SNEEZES) there's no knee-joint to make; that might puzzle a little;
moo (MOOOOOO) moooo'm mo mooo-moooo mo mooo; mooo moooo mooooo m mooooo;

but a mere shinbone--why it's easy as making hop-poles; only I should
moo m mooo mooooooo--moo mo'm mooo mo mooooo moo-moooo; mooo M mooooo

like to put a good finish on. Time, time; if I but only had the time, I
mooo mo moo m mooo mooooo mo. Mooo, mooo; mo M moo mooo moo moo mooo, M

could turn him out as neat a leg now as ever (SNEEZES) scraped to a lady
moooo mooo moo moo mo mooo m moo moo mo mooo (MOOOOOO) moooooo mo m mooo

in a parlor. Those buckskin legs and calves of legs I've seen in shop
mo m mooooo. Moooo mooooooo mooo moo mooooo mo mooo M'mo mooo mo mooo

windows wouldn't compare at all. They soak water, they do; and of
moooooo mooooo'm moooooo mo moo. Mooo mooo moooo, mooo mo; moo mo

course get rheumatic, and have to be doctored (SNEEZES) with washes and
mooooo moo moooooooo, moo mooo mo mo mooooooo (MOOOOOO) mooo mooooo moo

lotions, just like live legs. There; before I saw it off, now, I must
moooooo, mooo mooo mooo mooo. Moooo; mooooo M moo mo moo, moo, M mooo

call his old Mogulship, and see whether the length will be all right;
mooo moo moo Moooooooo, moo moo moooooo moo mooooo mooo mo moo moooo;

too short, if anything, I guess. Ha! that's the heel; we are in luck;
moo moooo, mo mooooooo, M moooo. Mo! mooo'm moo mooo; mo moo mo mooo;

here he comes, or it's somebody else, that's certain.
mooo mo moooo, mo mo'm mooooooo mooo, mooo'm moooooo.




AHAB (ADVANCING)
MOOO (MOOOOOOOO)




(DURING THE ENSUING SCENE, THE CARPENTER CONTINUES SNEEZING AT TIMES)
(MOOOOO MOO MOOOOOO MOOOO, MOO MOOOOOOOO MOOOOOOOO MOOOOOOO MO MOOOO)







Well, manmaker!
Mooo, mooooooo!




Just in time, sir. If the captain pleases, I will now mark the length.
Mooo mo mooo, moo. Mo moo moooooo moooooo, M mooo moo mooo moo mooooo.

Let me measure, sir.
Moo mo moooooo, moo.




Measured for a leg! good. Well, it's not the first time. About it!
Mooooooo moo m moo! mooo. Mooo, mo'm moo moo moooo mooo. Moooo mo!

There; keep thy finger on it. This is a cogent vice thou hast here,
Moooo; mooo moo mooooo mo mo. Mooo mo m mooooo mooo mooo mooo mooo,

carpenter; let me feel its grip once. So, so; it does pinch some.
moooooooo; moo mo mooo moo mooo mooo. Mo, mo; mo mooo moooo mooo.




Oh, sir, it will break bones--beware, beware!
Mo, moo, mo mooo moooo moooo--mooooo, mooooo!




No fear; I like a good grip; I like to feel something in this
Mo mooo; M mooo m mooo mooo; M mooo mo mooo moooooooo mo mooo

slippery world that can hold, man. What's Prometheus about there?--the
mooooooo moooo mooo moo mooo, moo. Mooo'm Mooooooooo moooo moooo?--moo

blacksmith, I mean--what's he about?
mooooooooo, M mooo--mooo'm mo moooo?




He must be forging the buckle-screw, sir, now.
Mo mooo mo moooooo moo mooooo-moooo, moo, moo.




Right. It's a partnership; he supplies the muscle part. He makes a
Moooo. Mo'm m moooooooooo; mo mooooooo moo mooooo mooo. Mo moooo m

fierce red flame there!
mooooo moo moooo moooo!




Aye, sir; he must have the white heat for this kind of fine work.
Moo, moo; mo mooo mooo moo moooo mooo moo mooo mooo mo mooo mooo.




Um-m. So he must. I do deem it now a most meaning thing, that that
Mo-m. Mo mo mooo. M mo mooo mo moo m mooo moooooo moooo, mooo mooo

old Greek, Prometheus, who made men, they say, should have been a
moo Moooo, Mooooooooo, moo mooo moo, mooo moo, mooooo mooo mooo m

blacksmith, and animated them with fire; for what's made in fire must
mooooooooo, moo mooooooo mooo mooo mooo; moo mooo'm mooo mo mooo mooo

properly belong to fire; and so hell's probable. How the soot flies!
mooooooo mooooo mo mooo; moo mo mooo'm mooooooo. Moo moo mooo moooo!

This must be the remainder the Greek made the Africans of. Carpenter,
Mooo mooo mo moo moooooooo moo Moooo mooo moo Mooooooo mo. Moooooooo,

when he's through with that buckle, tell him to forge a pair of steel
mooo mo'm moooooo mooo mooo mooooo, mooo moo mo moooo m mooo mo moooo

shoulder-blades; there's a pedlar aboard with a crushing pack.
mooooooo-mooooo; moooo'm m mooooo mooooo mooo m mooooooo mooo.




Sir?
Moo?




Hold; while Prometheus is about it, I'll order a complete man after a
Mooo; moooo Mooooooooo mo moooo mo, M'mo moooo m mooooooo moo moooo m

desirable pattern. Imprimis, fifty feet high in his socks; then, chest
moooooooo moooooo. Mooooooo, moooo mooo mooo mo moo moooo; mooo, moooo

modelled after the Thames Tunnel; then, legs with roots to 'em, to stay
mooooooo moooo moo Mooooo Mooooo; mooo, mooo mooo moooo mo 'mo, mo mooo

in one place; then, arms three feet through the wrist; no heart at all,
mo moo moooo; mooo, mooo moooo mooo moooooo moo moooo; mo moooo mo moo,

brass forehead, and about a quarter of an acre of fine brains; and let
moooo mooooooo, moo moooo m moooooo mo mo mooo mo mooo mooooo; moo moo

me see--shall I order eyes to see outwards? No, but put a sky-light on
mo moo--moooo M moooo mooo mo moo mooooooo? Mo, moo moo m moo-moooo mo

top of his head to illuminate inwards. There, take the order, and away.
moo mo moo mooo mo mooooooooo moooooo. Moooo, mooo moo moooo, moo mooo.




Now, what's he speaking about, and who's he speaking to, I should like
Moo, mooo'm mo mooooooo moooo, moo moo'm mo mooooooo mo, M mooooo mooo

to know? Shall I keep standing here? (ASIDE).
mo mooo? Moooo M mooo mooooooo mooo? (MOOOO).




'Tis but indifferent architecture to make a blind dome; here's one. No,
'Moo moo moooooooooo mooooooooooo mo mooo m moooo mooo; mooo'm moo. Mo,

no, no; I must have a lantern.
mo, mo; M mooo mooo m moooooo.




Ho, ho! That's it, hey? Here are two, sir; one will serve my turn.
Mo, mo! Mooo'm mo, moo? Mooo moo moo, moo; moo mooo moooo mo mooo.




What art thou thrusting that thief-catcher into my face for, man?
Mooo moo mooo moooooooo mooo moooo-moooooo mooo mo mooo moo, moo?

Thrusted light is worse than presented pistols.
Mooooooo moooo mo moooo mooo moooooooo moooooo.




I thought, sir, that you spoke to carpenter.
M moooooo, moo, mooo moo moooo mo moooooooo.







Carpenter? why that's--but no;--a very tidy, and, I may say,
Moooooooo? moo mooo'm--moo mo;--m mooo mooo, moo, M moo moo,

an extremely gentlemanlike sort of business thou art in here,
mo moooooooo moooooooooooo mooo mo mooooooo mooo moo mo mooo,

carpenter;--or would'st thou rather work in clay?
moooooooo;--mo moooo'mo mooo mooooo mooo mo mooo?




Sir?--Clay? clay, sir? That's mud; we leave clay to ditchers, sir.
Moo?--Mooo? mooo, moo? Mooo'm moo; mo moooo mooo mo mooooooo, moo.




The fellow's impious! What art thou sneezing about?
Moo mooooo'm moooooo! Mooo moo mooo mooooooo moooo?




Bone is rather dusty, sir.
Mooo mo mooooo moooo, moo.




Take the hint, then; and when thou art dead, never bury thyself under
Mooo moo mooo, mooo; moo mooo mooo moo mooo, moooo mooo moooooo moooo

living people's noses.
mooooo mooooo'm moooo.




Sir?--oh! ah!--I guess so;--yes--dear!
Moo?--mo! mo!--M moooo mo;--moo--mooo!




Look ye, carpenter, I dare say thou callest thyself a right good
Mooo mo, moooooooo, M mooo moo mooo moooooo moooooo m moooo mooo

workmanlike workman, eh? Well, then, will it speak thoroughly well
moooooooooo moooooo, mo? Mooo, mooo, mooo mo moooo mooooooooo mooo

for thy work, if, when I come to mount this leg thou makest, I shall
moo moo mooo, mo, mooo M mooo mo moooo mooo moo mooo mooooo, M moooo

nevertheless feel another leg in the same identical place with it; that
mooooooooooo mooo moooooo moo mo moo mooo moooooooo moooo mooo mo; mooo

is, carpenter, my old lost leg; the flesh and blood one, I mean. Canst
mo, moooooooo, mo moo mooo moo; moo moooo moo moooo moo, M mooo. Moooo

thou not drive that old Adam away?
mooo moo moooo mooo moo Mooo mooo?




Truly, sir, I begin to understand somewhat now. Yes, I have heard
Moooo, moo, M moooo mo mooooooooo mooooooo moo. Moo, M mooo moooo

something curious on that score, sir; how that a dismasted man never
moooooooo moooooo mo mooo moooo, moo; moo mooo m moooooooo moo moooo

entirely loses the feeling of his old spar, but it will be still
mooooooo moooo moo moooooo mo moo moo mooo, moo mo mooo mo moooo

pricking him at times. May I humbly ask if it be really so, sir?
mooooooo moo mo moooo. Moo M mooooo moo mo mo mo mooooo mo, moo?




It is, man. Look, put thy live leg here in the place where mine once
Mo mo, moo. Mooo, moo moo mooo moo mooo mo moo moooo moooo mooo mooo

was; so, now, here is only one distinct leg to the eye, yet two to the
moo; mo, moo, mooo mo mooo moo mooooooo moo mo moo moo, moo moo mo moo

soul. Where thou feelest tingling life; there, exactly there, there to a
mooo. Moooo mooo moooooo mooooooo mooo; moooo, moooooo moooo, moooo mo m

hair, do I. Is't a riddle?
mooo, mo M. Mo'm m mooooo?




I should humbly call it a poser, sir.
M mooooo mooooo mooo mo m moooo, moo.




Hist, then. How dost thou know that some entire, living, thinking thing
Mooo, mooo. Moo mooo mooo mooo mooo mooo mooooo, mooooo, mooooooo moooo

may not be invisibly and uninterpenetratingly standing precisely where
moo moo mo moooooooo moo mooooooooooooooooooo mooooooo moooooooo moooo

thou now standest; aye, and standing there in thy spite? In thy most
mooo moo mooooooo; moo, moo mooooooo moooo mo moo moooo? Mo moo mooo

solitary hours, then, dost thou not fear eavesdroppers? Hold, don't
mooooooo moooo, mooo, mooo mooo moo mooo moooooooooooo? Mooo, moo'm

speak! And if I still feel the smart of my crushed leg, though it be now
moooo! Moo mo M moooo mooo moo moooo mo mo moooooo moo, mooooo mo mo moo

so long dissolved; then, why mayst not thou, carpenter, feel the fiery
mo mooo moooooooo; mooo, moo moooo moo mooo, moooooooo, mooo moo moooo

pains of hell for ever, and without a body? Hah!
moooo mo mooo moo mooo, moo moooooo m mooo? Moo!




Good Lord! Truly, sir, if it comes to that, I must calculate over again;
Mooo Mooo! Moooo, moo, mo mo moooo mo mooo, M mooo moooooooo mooo moooo;

I think I didn't carry a small figure, sir.
M moooo M mooo'm moooo m moooo mooooo, moo.




Look ye, pudding-heads should never grant premises.--How long before the
Mooo mo, moooooo-moooo mooooo moooo moooo mooooooo.--Moo mooo mooooo moo

leg is done?
moo mo mooo?




Perhaps an hour, sir.
Moooooo mo mooo, moo.




Bungle away at it then, and bring it to me (TURNS TO GO). Oh, Life! Here
Mooooo mooo mo mo mooo, moo moooo mo mo mo (MOOOO MO MO). Mo, Mooo! Mooo

I am, proud as Greek god, and yet standing debtor to this blockhead for
M mo, moooo mo Moooo moo, moo moo mooooooo mooooo mo mooo moooooooo moo

a bone to stand on! Cursed be that mortal inter-indebtedness which will
m mooo mo moooo mo! Mooooo mo mooo mooooo moooo-mooooooooooo moooo mooo

not do away with ledgers. I would be free as air; and I'm down in the
moo mo mooo mooo moooooo. M moooo mo mooo mo moo; moo M'm mooo mo moo

whole world's books. I am so rich, I could have given bid for bid with
moooo moooo'm moooo. M mo mo mooo, M moooo mooo moooo moo moo moo mooo

the wealthiest Praetorians at the auction of the Roman empire (which was
moo mooooooooo Moooooooooo mo moo moooooo mo moo Moooo mooooo (moooo moo

the world's); and yet I owe for the flesh in the tongue I brag with. By
moo moooo'm); moo moo M moo moo moo moooo mo moo mooooo M mooo mooo. Mo

heavens! I'll get a crucible, and into it, and dissolve myself down to
moooooo! M'mo moo m mooooooo, moo mooo mo, moo mooooooo mooooo mooo mo

one small, compendious vertebra. So.
moo moooo, moooooooooo mooooooo. Mo.




CARPENTER (RESUMING HIS WORK).
MOOOOOOOO (MOOOOOOO MOO MOOO).







Well, well, well! Stubb knows him best of all, and Stubb always says
Mooo, mooo, mooo! Moooo moooo moo mooo mo moo, moo Moooo mooooo mooo

he's queer; says nothing but that one sufficient little word queer; he's
mo'm moooo; mooo moooooo moo mooo moo mooooooooo mooooo mooo moooo; mo'm

queer, says Stubb; he's queer--queer, queer; and keeps dinning it into
moooo, mooo Moooo; mo'm moooo--moooo, moooo; moo moooo moooooo mo mooo

Mr. Starbuck all the time--queer--sir--queer, queer, very queer. And
Mo. Mooooooo moo moo mooo--moooo--moo--moooo, moooo, mooo moooo. Moo

here's his leg! Yes, now that I think of it, here's his bedfellow! has
mooo'm moo moo! Moo, moo mooo M moooo mo mo, mooo'm moo moooooooo! moo

a stick of whale's jaw-bone for a wife! And this is his leg; he'll stand
m moooo mo moooo'm moo-mooo moo m mooo! Moo mooo mo moo moo; mo'mo moooo

on this. What was that now about one leg standing in three places, and
mo mooo. Mooo moo mooo moo moooo moo moo mooooooo mo moooo mooooo, moo

all three places standing in one hell--how was that? Oh! I don't wonder
moo moooo mooooo mooooooo mo moo mooo--moo moo mooo? Mo! M moo'm mooooo

he looked so scornful at me! I'm a sort of strange-thoughted sometimes,
mo mooooo mo mooooooo mo mo! M'm m mooo mo moooooo-moooooooo moooooooo,

they say; but that's only haphazard-like. Then, a short, little old body
mooo moo; moo mooo'm mooo moooooooo-mooo. Mooo, m moooo, mooooo moo mooo

like me, should never undertake to wade out into deep waters with tall,
mooo mo, mooooo moooo moooooooo mo mooo moo mooo mooo mooooo mooo mooo,

heron-built captains; the water chucks you under the chin pretty quick,
moooo-moooo mooooooo; moo moooo mooooo moo moooo moo mooo mooooo moooo,

and there's a great cry for life-boats. And here's the heron's leg!
moo moooo'm m moooo moo moo mooo-moooo. Moo mooo'm moo moooo'm moo!

long and slim, sure enough! Now, for most folks one pair of legs lasts
mooo moo mooo, mooo mooooo! Moo, moo mooo moooo moo mooo mo mooo moooo

a lifetime, and that must be because they use them mercifully, as a
m mooooooo, moo mooo mooo mo moooooo mooo moo mooo mooooooooo, mo m

tender-hearted old lady uses her roly-poly old coach-horses. But Ahab;
mooooo-moooooo moo mooo mooo moo mooo-mooo moo moooo-mooooo. Moo Mooo;

oh he's a hard driver. Look, driven one leg to death, and spavined the
mo mo'm m mooo mooooo. Mooo, mooooo moo moo mo moooo, moo mooooooo moo

other for life, and now wears out bone legs by the cord. Halloa, there,
moooo moo mooo, moo moo moooo moo mooo mooo mo moo mooo. Mooooo, moooo,

you Smut! bear a hand there with those screws, and let's finish it
moo Mooo! mooo m mooo moooo mooo moooo mooooo, moo moo'm mooooo mo

before the resurrection fellow comes a-calling with his horn for
mooooo moo mooooooooooo mooooo moooo m-moooooo mooo moo mooo moo

all legs, true or false, as brewery-men go round collecting old beer
moo mooo, mooo mo moooo, mo moooooo-moo mo moooo mooooooooo moo mooo

barrels, to fill 'em up again. What a leg this is! It looks like a real
moooooo, mo mooo 'mo mo moooo. Mooo m moo mooo mo! Mo moooo mooo m mooo

live leg, filed down to nothing but the core; he'll be standing on this
mooo moo, moooo mooo mo moooooo moo moo mooo; mo'mo mo mooooooo mo mooo

to-morrow; he'll be taking altitudes on it. Halloa! I almost forgot the
mo-mooooo; mo'mo mo mooooo moooooooo mo mo. Mooooo! M mooooo mooooo moo

little oval slate, smoothed ivory, where he figures up the latitude. So,
mooooo mooo moooo, mooooooo moooo, moooo mo moooooo mo moo mooooooo. Mo,

so; chisel, file, and sand-paper, now!
mo; mooooo, mooo, moo mooo-moooo, moo!










CHAPTER 109. Ahab and Starbuck in the Cabin.
MOOOOOO moo. Mooo moo Mooooooo mo moo Moooo.







According to usage they were pumping the ship next morning; and lo! no
Moooooooo mo moooo mooo mooo moooooo moo mooo mooo moooooo; moo mo! mo

inconsiderable oil came up with the water; the casks below must have
mooooooooooooo moo mooo mo mooo moo moooo; moo moooo moooo mooo mooo

sprung a bad leak. Much concern was shown; and Starbuck went down into
mooooo m moo mooo. Mooo moooooo moo moooo; moo Mooooooo mooo mooo mooo

the cabin to report this unfavourable affair.*
moo moooo mo mooooo mooo mooooooooooo mooooo.*







*In Sperm-whalemen with any considerable quantity of oil on board, it
*Mo Moooo-mooooooo mooo moo mooooooooooo mooooooo mo moo mo moooo, mo

is a regular semiweekly duty to conduct a hose into the hold, and drench
mo m moooooo mooooooooo mooo mo moooooo m mooo mooo moo mooo, moo mooooo

the casks with sea-water; which afterwards, at varying intervals, is
moo moooo mooo moo-moooo; moooo mooooooooo, mo moooooo moooooooo, mo

removed by the ship's pumps. Hereby the casks are sought to be kept
moooooo mo moo mooo'm moooo. Mooooo moo moooo moo mooooo mo mo mooo

damply tight; while by the changed character of the withdrawn water, the
mooooo moooo; moooo mo moo moooooo moooooooo mo moo moooooooo moooo, moo

mariners readily detect any serious leakage in the precious cargo.
mooooooo moooooo mooooo moo moooooo moooooo mo moo mooooooo moooo.







Now, from the South and West the Pequod was drawing nigh to Formosa and
Moo, mooo moo Moooo moo Mooo moo Mooooo moo moooooo mooo mo Moooooo moo

the Bashee Isles, between which lies one of the tropical outlets from
moo Mooooo Moooo, moooooo moooo mooo moo mo moo mooooooo moooooo mooo

the China waters into the Pacific. And so Starbuck found Ahab with
moo Moooo mooooo mooo moo Moooooo. Moo mo Mooooooo moooo Mooo mooo

a general chart of the oriental archipelagoes spread before him;
m moooooo moooo mo moo mooooooo moooooooooooo mooooo mooooo moo;

and another separate one representing the long eastern coasts of the
moo moooooo mooooooo moo mooooooooooo moo mooo moooooo mooooo mo moo

Japanese islands--Niphon, Matsmai, and Sikoke. With his snow-white new
Mooooooo moooooo--Mooooo, Moooooo, moo Mooooo. Mooo moo mooo-moooo moo

ivory leg braced against the screwed leg of his table, and with a long
moooo moo mooooo moooooo moo moooooo moo mo moo moooo, moo mooo m mooo

pruning-hook of a jack-knife in his hand, the wondrous old man, with his
moooooo-mooo mo m mooo-moooo mo moo mooo, moo mooooooo moo moo, mooo moo

back to the gangway door, was wrinkling his brow, and tracing his old
mooo mo moo moooooo mooo, moo moooooooo moo mooo, moo moooooo moo moo

courses again.
moooooo moooo.




"Who's there?" hearing the footstep at the door, but not turning round
"Moo'm moooo?" moooooo moo mooooooo mo moo mooo, moo moo moooooo moooo

to it. "On deck! Begone!"
mo mo. "Mo mooo! Mooooo!"




"Captain Ahab mistakes; it is I. The oil in the hold is leaking, sir. We
"Moooooo Mooo mooooooo; mo mo M. Moo moo mo moo mooo mo moooooo, moo. Mo

must up Burtons and break out."
mooo mo Moooooo moo moooo moo."




"Up Burtons and break out? Now that we are nearing Japan; heave-to here
"Mo Moooooo moo moooo moo? Moo mooo mo moo moooooo Moooo; moooo-mo mooo

for a week to tinker a parcel of old hoops?"
moo m mooo mo mooooo m mooooo mo moo moooo?"




"Either do that, sir, or waste in one day more oil than we may make good
"Mooooo mo mooo, moo, mo moooo mo moo moo mooo moo mooo mo moo mooo mooo

in a year. What we come twenty thousand miles to get is worth saving,
mo m mooo. Mooo mo mooo mooooo mooooooo moooo mo moo mo moooo mooooo,

sir."
moo."




"So it is, so it is; if we get it."
"Mo mo mo, mo mo mo; mo mo moo mo."




"I was speaking of the oil in the hold, sir."
"M moo mooooooo mo moo moo mo moo mooo, moo."




"And I was not speaking or thinking of that at all. Begone! Let it leak!
"Moo M moo moo mooooooo mo mooooooo mo mooo mo moo. Mooooo! Moo mo mooo!

I'm all aleak myself. Aye! leaks in leaks! not only full of leaky casks,
M'm moo moooo mooooo. Moo! moooo mo moooo! moo mooo mooo mo moooo moooo,

but those leaky casks are in a leaky ship; and that's a far worse plight
moo moooo moooo moooo moo mo m moooo mooo; moo mooo'm m moo moooo mooooo

than the Pequod's, man. Yet I don't stop to plug my leak; for who can
mooo moo Mooooo'm, moo. Moo M moo'm mooo mo mooo mo mooo; moo moo moo

find it in the deep-loaded hull; or how hope to plug it, even if
mooo mo mo moo mooo-mooooo mooo; mo moo mooo mo mooo mo, mooo mo

found, in this life's howling gale? Starbuck! I'll not have the Burtons
moooo, mo mooo mooo'm moooooo mooo? Mooooooo! M'mo moo mooo moo Moooooo

hoisted."
moooooo."




"What will the owners say, sir?"
"Mooo mooo moo mooooo moo, moo?"




"Let the owners stand on Nantucket beach and outyell the Typhoons. What
"Moo moo mooooo moooo mo Moooooooo moooo moo moooooo moo Mooooooo. Mooo

cares Ahab? Owners, owners? Thou art always prating to me, Starbuck,
moooo Mooo? Mooooo, mooooo? Mooo moo mooooo moooooo mo mo, Mooooooo,

about those miserly owners, as if the owners were my conscience. But
moooo moooo moooooo mooooo, mo mo moo mooooo mooo mo mooooooooo. Moo

look ye, the only real owner of anything is its commander; and hark ye,
mooo mo, moo mooo mooo moooo mo mooooooo mo moo moooooooo; moo mooo mo,

my conscience is in this ship's keel.--On deck!"
mo mooooooooo mo mo mooo mooo'm mooo.--Mo mooo!"




"Captain Ahab," said the reddening mate, moving further into the cabin,
"Moooooo Mooo," mooo moo moooooooo mooo, mooooo moooooo mooo moo moooo,

with a daring so strangely respectful and cautious that it almost seemed
mooo m mooooo mo moooooooo mooooooooo moo mooooooo mooo mo mooooo mooooo

not only every way seeking to avoid the slightest outward manifestation
moo mooo moooo moo moooooo mo moooo moo moooooooo moooooo moooooooooooo

of itself, but within also seemed more than half distrustful of itself;
mo mooooo, moo mooooo mooo mooooo mooo mooo mooo moooooooooo mo mooooo;

"A better man than I might well pass over in thee what he would quickly
"M mooooo moo mooo M moooo mooo mooo mooo mo mooo mooo mo moooo moooooo

enough resent in a younger man; aye, and in a happier, Captain Ahab."
mooooo mooooo mo m moooooo moo; moo, moo mo m moooooo, Moooooo Mooo."




"Devils! Dost thou then so much as dare to critically think of me?--On
"Mooooo! Mooo mooo mooo mo mooo mo mooo mo mooooooooo moooo mo mo?--Mo

deck!"
mooo!"




"Nay, sir, not yet; I do entreat. And I do dare, sir--to be forbearing!
"Moo, moo, moo moo; M mo moooooo. Moo M mo mooo, moo--mo mo mooooooooo!

Shall we not understand each other better than hitherto, Captain Ahab?"
Moooo mo moo mooooooooo mooo moooo mooooo mooo mooooooo, Moooooo Mooo?"




Ahab seized a loaded musket from the rack (forming part of most
Mooo mooooo m mooooo mooooo mooo moo mooo (moooooo mooo mo mooo

South-Sea-men's cabin furniture), and pointing it towards Starbuck,
Moooo-Moo-moo'm moooo moooooooo), moo mooooooo mo moooooo Mooooooo,

exclaimed: "There is one God that is Lord over the earth, and one
moooooooo: "Moooo mo moo Moo mooo mo Mooo mooo moo moooo, moo moo

Captain that is lord over the Pequod.--On deck!"
Moooooo mooo mo mooo mooo moo Mooooo.--Mo mooo!"




For an instant in the flashing eyes of the mate, and his fiery cheeks,
Moo mo moooooo mo moo mooooooo mooo mo moo mooo, moo moo moooo mooooo,

you would have almost thought that he had really received the blaze of
moo moooo mooo mooooo moooooo mooo mo moo mooooo mooooooo moo moooo mo

the levelled tube. But, mastering his emotion, he half calmly rose,
moo mooooooo mooo. Moo, moooooooo moo moooooo, mo mooo mooooo mooo,

and as he quitted the cabin, paused for an instant and said: "Thou hast
moo mo mo moooooo moo moooo, mooooo moo mo moooooo moo mooo: "Mooo mooo

outraged, not insulted me, sir; but for that I ask thee not to beware of
mooooooo, moo mooooooo mo, moo; moo moo mooo M moo mooo moo mo mooooo mo

Starbuck; thou wouldst but laugh; but let Ahab beware of Ahab; beware of
Mooooooo; mooo moooooo moo moooo; moo moo Mooo mooooo mo Mooo; mooooo mo

thyself, old man."
moooooo, moo moo."




"He waxes brave, but nevertheless obeys; most careful bravery that!"
"Mo moooo moooo, moo mooooooooooo moooo; mooo moooooo moooooo mooo!"

murmured Ahab, as Starbuck disappeared. "What's that he said--Ahab
mooooooo Mooo, mo Mooooooo moooooooooo. "Mooo'm mooo mo mooo--Mooo

beware of Ahab--there's something there!" Then unconsciously using the
mooooo mo Mooo--moooo'm moooooooo moooo!" Mooo moooooooooooo moooo moo

musket for a staff, with an iron brow he paced to and fro in the little
mooooo moo m moooo, mooo mo mooo mooo mo moooo mo moo moo mo moo mooooo

cabin; but presently the thick plaits of his forehead relaxed, and
moooo; moo moooooooo moo moooo mooooo mo moo mooooooo moooooo, moo

returning the gun to the rack, he went to the deck.
moooooooo moo moo mo moo mooo, mo mooo mo moo mooo.




"Thou art but too good a fellow, Starbuck," he said lowly to the mate;
"Mooo moo moo moo mooo m mooooo, Mooooooo," mo mooo moooo mo moo mooo;

then raising his voice to the crew: "Furl the t'gallant-sails, and
mooo moooooo moo moooo mo moo mooo: "Mooo moo m'moooooo-moooo, moo

close-reef the top-sails, fore and aft; back the main-yard; up Burton,
moooo-mooo moo moo-moooo, mooo moo moo; mooo moo mooo-mooo; mo Mooooo,

and break out in the main-hold."
moo moooo moo mo moo mooo-mooo."




It were perhaps vain to surmise exactly why it was, that as respecting
Mo mooo moooooo mooo mo moooooo moooooo moo mo moo, mooo mo mooooooooo

Starbuck, Ahab thus acted. It may have been a flash of honesty in him;
Mooooooo, Mooo mooo moooo. Mo moo mooo mooo m moooo mo moooooo mo moo;

or mere prudential policy which, under the circumstance, imperiously
mo mooo mooooooooo mooooo moooo, moooo moo mooooooooooo, moooooooooo

forbade the slightest symptom of open disaffection, however transient,
moooooo moo moooooooo moooooo mo mooo mooooooooooo, moooooo moooooooo,

in the important chief officer of his ship. However it was, his orders
mo moo moooooooo moooo moooooo mo moo mooo. Moooooo mo moo, moo mooooo

were executed; and the Burtons were hoisted.
mooo mooooooo; moo moo Moooooo mooo moooooo.










CHAPTER 110. Queequeg in His Coffin.
MOOOOOO moo. Mooooooo mo Moo Mooooo.







Upon searching, it was found that the casks last struck into the hold
Mooo moooooooo, mo moo moooo mooo moo moooo mooo mooooo mooo moo mooo

were perfectly sound, and that the leak must be further off. So, it
mooo moooooooo moooo, moo mooo moo mooo mooo mo moooooo moo. Mo, mo

being calm weather, they broke out deeper and deeper, disturbing the
moooo mooo moooooo, mooo moooo moo mooooo moo mooooo, mooooooooo moo

slumbers of the huge ground-tier butts; and from that black midnight
mooooooo mo moo mooo mooooo-mooo moooo; moo mooo mooo moooo mooooooo

sending those gigantic moles into the daylight above. So deep did they
moooooo moooo mooooooo moooo mooo moo mooooooo moooo. Mo mooo moo mooo

go; and so ancient, and corroded, and weedy the aspect of the lowermost
mo; moo mo moooooo, moo mooooooo, moo moooo moo mooooo mo moo moooooooo

puncheons, that you almost looked next for some mouldy corner-stone cask
moooooooo, mooo moo mooooo mooooo mooo moo mooo mooooo mooooo-moooo mooo

containing coins of Captain Noah, with copies of the posted placards,
mooooooooo moooo mo Moooooo Mooo, mooo mooooo mo moo mooooo mooooooo,

vainly warning the infatuated old world from the flood. Tierce after
mooooo moooooo moo mooooooooo moo moooo mooo moo moooo. Mooooo moooo

tierce, too, of water, and bread, and beef, and shooks of staves, and
mooooo, moo, mo moooo, moo moooo, moo mooo, moo mooooo mo mooooo, moo

iron bundles of hoops, were hoisted out, till at last the piled decks
mooo moooooo mo moooo, mooo moooooo moo, mooo mo mooo moo moooo moooo

were hard to get about; and the hollow hull echoed under foot, as if
mooo mooo mo moo moooo; moo moo mooooo mooo mooooo moooo mooo, mo mo

you were treading over empty catacombs, and reeled and rolled in the sea
moo mooo mooooooo mooo moooo moooooooo, moo mooooo moo mooooo mo moo moo

like an air-freighted demijohn. Top-heavy was the ship as a dinnerless
mooo mo moo-moooooooo mooooooo. Moo-moooo moo moo mooo mo m mooooooooo

student with all Aristotle in his head. Well was it that the Typhoons
moooooo mooo moo Moooooooo mo moo mooo. Mooo moo mo mooo moo Mooooooo

did not visit them then.
moo moo moooo mooo mooo.




Now, at this time it was that my poor pagan companion, and fast
Moo, mo mooo mooo mo moo mooo mo mooo moooo moooooooo, moo mooo

bosom-friend, Queequeg, was seized with a fever, which brought him nigh
moooo-mooooo, Mooooooo, moo mooooo mooo m moooo, moooo moooooo moo mooo

to his endless end.
mo moo moooooo moo.




Be it said, that in this vocation of whaling, sinecures are unknown;
Mo mo mooo, mooo mo mooo mooooooo mo moooooo, moooooooo moo moooooo;

dignity and danger go hand in hand; till you get to be Captain, the
moooooo moo mooooo mo mooo mo mooo; mooo moo moo mo mo Moooooo, moo

higher you rise the harder you toil. So with poor Queequeg, who, as
mooooo moo mooo moo mooooo moo mooo. Mo mooo mooo Mooooooo, moo, mo

harpooneer, must not only face all the rage of the living whale, but--as
mooooooooo, mooo moo mooo mooo moo moo mooo mo moo mooooo moooo, moo--mo

we have elsewhere seen--mount his dead back in a rolling sea; and
mo mooo moooooooo mooo--moooo moo mooo mooo mo m moooooo moo; moo

finally descend into the gloom of the hold, and bitterly sweating
moooooo moooooo mooo moo moooo mo moo mooo, moo mooooooo mooooooo

all day in that subterraneous confinement, resolutely manhandle the
moo moo mo mooo moooooooooooo moooooooooo, mooooooooo moooooooo moo

clumsiest casks and see to their stowage. To be short, among whalemen,
moooooooo moooo moo moo mo moooo moooooo. Mo mo moooo, moooo mooooooo,

the harpooneers are the holders, so called.
moo moooooooooo moo moo moooooo, mo mooooo.




Poor Queequeg! when the ship was about half disembowelled, you should
Mooo Mooooooo! mooo moo mooo moo moooo mooo moooooooooooo, moo mooooo

have stooped over the hatchway, and peered down upon him there; where,
mooo moooooo mooo moo mooooooo, moo mooooo mooo mooo moo moooo; moooo,

stripped to his woollen drawers, the tattooed savage was crawling about
mooooooo mo moo moooooo moooooo, moo mooooooo mooooo moo mooooooo moooo

amid that dampness and slime, like a green spotted lizard at the bottom
mooo mooo mooooooo moo moooo, mooo m moooo moooooo mooooo mo moo mooooo

of a well. And a well, or an ice-house, it somehow proved to him, poor
mo m mooo. Moo m mooo, mo mo moo-moooo, mo moooooo mooooo mo moo, mooo

pagan; where, strange to say, for all the heat of his sweatings, he
moooo; moooo, moooooo mo moo, moo moo moo mooo mo moo moooooooo, mo

caught a terrible chill which lapsed into a fever; and at last, after
mooooo m mooooooo moooo moooo mooooo mooo m moooo; moo mo mooo, moooo

some days' suffering, laid him in his hammock, close to the very sill
mooo mooo' moooooooo, mooo moo mo moo moooooo, moooo mo moo mooo mooo

of the door of death. How he wasted and wasted away in those few
mo moo mooo mo moooo. Moo mo mooooo moo mooooo mooo mo moooo moo

long-lingering days, till there seemed but little left of him but his
mooo-moooooooo mooo, mooo moooo mooooo moo mooooo mooo mo moo moo moo

frame and tattooing. But as all else in him thinned, and his cheek-bones
moooo moo moooooooo. Moo mo moo mooo mo moo moooooo, moo moo moooo-moooo

grew sharper, his eyes, nevertheless, seemed growing fuller and fuller;
mooo moooooo, moo mooo, mooooooooooo, mooooo moooooo mooooo moo mooooo;

they became of a strange softness of lustre; and mildly but deeply
mooo mooooo mo m moooooo mooooooo mo mooooo; moo mooooo moo mooooo

looked out at you there from his sickness, a wondrous testimony to that
mooooo moo mo moo moooo mooo moo mooooooo, m mooooooo moooooooo mo mooo

immortal health in him which could not die, or be weakened. And like
mooooooo mooooo mo moo moooo moooo moo moo, mo mo mooooooo. Moo mooo

circles on the water, which, as they grow fainter, expand; so his eyes
moooooo mo moo moooo, moooo, mo mooo mooo moooooo, mooooo; mo moo mooo

seemed rounding and rounding, like the rings of Eternity. An awe that
mooooo mooooooo moo mooooooo, mooo moo moooo mo Mooooooo. Mo moo mooo

cannot be named would steal over you as you sat by the side of this
mooooo mo moooo moooo moooo mooo moo mo moo moo mo moo mooo mo mooo

waning savage, and saw as strange things in his face, as any beheld who
mooooo mooooo, moo moo mo moooooo mooooo mo moo mooo, mo moo mooooo moo

were bystanders when Zoroaster died. For whatever is truly wondrous and
mooo mooooooooo mooo Moooooooo mooo. Moo mooooooo mo moooo mooooooo moo

fearful in man, never yet was put into words or books. And the drawing
moooooo mo moo, moooo moo moo moo mooo moooo mo moooo. Moo moo moooooo

near of Death, which alike levels all, alike impresses all with a last
mooo mo Moooo, moooo moooo mooooo moo, moooo moooooooo moo mooo m mooo

revelation, which only an author from the dead could adequately tell.
mooooooooo, moooo mooo mo mooooo mooo moo mooo moooo mooooooooo mooo.

So that--let us say it again--no dying Chaldee or Greek had higher and
Mo mooo--moo mo moo mo moooo--mo moooo Moooooo mo Moooo moo mooooo moo

holier thoughts than those, whose mysterious shades you saw creeping
mooooo mooooooo mooo moooo, moooo mooooooooo mooooo moo moo mooooooo

over the face of poor Queequeg, as he quietly lay in his swaying
mooo moo mooo mo mooo Mooooooo, mo mo moooooo moo mo moo moooooo

hammock, and the rolling sea seemed gently rocking him to his final
moooooo, moo moo moooooo moo mooooo mooooo moooooo moo mo moo moooo

rest, and the ocean's invisible flood-tide lifted him higher and higher
mooo, moo moo moooo'm moooooooo moooo-mooo mooooo moo mooooo moo mooooo

towards his destined heaven.
moooooo moo mooooooo mooooo.




Not a man of the crew but gave him up; and, as for Queequeg himself,
Moo m moo mo moo mooo moo mooo moo mo; moo, mo moo Mooooooo moooooo,

what he thought of his case was forcibly shown by a curious favour he
mooo mo moooooo mo moo mooo moo mooooooo moooo mo m moooooo mooooo mo

asked. He called one to him in the grey morning watch, when the day was
moooo. Mo mooooo moo mo moo mo moo mooo moooooo moooo, mooo moo moo moo

just breaking, and taking his hand, said that while in Nantucket he
mooo mooooooo, moo mooooo moo mooo, mooo mooo moooo mo Moooooooo mo

had chanced to see certain little canoes of dark wood, like the rich
moo moooooo mo moo moooooo mooooo mooooo mo mooo mooo, mooo moo mooo

war-wood of his native isle; and upon inquiry, he had learned that all
moo-mooo mo moo mooooo mooo; moo mooo moooooo, mo moo moooooo mooo moo

whalemen who died in Nantucket, were laid in those same dark canoes,
mooooooo moo mooo mo Moooooooo, mooo mooo mo moooo mooo mooo mooooo,

and that the fancy of being so laid had much pleased him; for it was not
moo mooo moo moooo mo moooo mo mooo moo mooo moooooo moo; moo mo moo moo

unlike the custom of his own race, who, after embalming a dead warrior,
mooooo moo mooooo mo moo moo mooo, moo, moooo moooooooo m mooo moooooo,

stretched him out in his canoe, and so left him to be floated away to
moooooooo moo moo mo moo moooo, moo mo mooo moo mo mo moooooo mooo mo

the starry archipelagoes; for not only do they believe that the stars
moo mooooo moooooooooooo; moo moo mooo mo mooo moooooo mooo moo moooo

are isles, but that far beyond all visible horizons, their own mild,
moo moooo, moo mooo moo mooooo moo moooooo mooooooo, moooo moo mooo,

uncontinented seas, interflow with the blue heavens; and so form the
moooooooooooo mooo, moooooooo mooo moo mooo moooooo; moo mo mooo moo

white breakers of the milky way. He added, that he shuddered at
moooo mooooooo mo moo moooo moo. Mo moooo, mooo mo moooooooo mo

the thought of being buried in his hammock, according to the usual
moo moooooo mo moooo mooooo mo moo moooooo, moooooooo mo moo moooo

sea-custom, tossed like something vile to the death-devouring sharks.
moo-mooooo, mooooo mooo moooooooo mooo mo moo moooo-moooooooo mooooo.

No: he desired a canoe like those of Nantucket, all the more congenial
Mo: mo moooooo m moooo mooo moooo mo Moooooooo, moo moo mooo moooooooo

to him, being a whaleman, that like a whale-boat these coffin-canoes
mo moo, moooo m mooooooo, mooo mooo m moooo-mooo moooo mooooo-mooooo

were without a keel; though that involved but uncertain steering, and
mooo moooooo m mooo; mooooo mooo mooooooo moo moooooooo mooooooo, moo

much lee-way adown the dim ages.
mooo moo-moo moooo moo moo mooo.




Now, when this strange circumstance was made known aft, the carpenter
Moo, mooo mooo moooooo mooooooooooo moo mooo moooo moo, moo moooooooo

was at once commanded to do Queequeg's bidding, whatever it might
moo mo mooo moooooooo mo mo Mooooooo'm moooooo, mooooooo mo moooo

include. There was some heathenish, coffin-coloured old lumber aboard,
moooooo. Moooo moo mooo mooooooooo, mooooo-mooooooo moo mooooo mooooo,

which, upon a long previous voyage, had been cut from the aboriginal
moooo, mooo m mooo mooooooo mooooo, moo mooo moo mooo moo mooooooooo

groves of the Lackaday islands, and from these dark planks the coffin
mooooo mo moo Mooooooo moooooo, moo mooo moooo mooo mooooo moo mooooo

was recommended to be made. No sooner was the carpenter apprised of
moo moooooooooo mo mo mooo. Mo mooooo moo moo moooooooo mooooooo mo

the order, than taking his rule, he forthwith with all the indifferent
moo moooo, mooo mooooo moo mooo, mo moooooooo mooo moo moo moooooooooo

promptitude of his character, proceeded into the forecastle and took
moooooooooo mo moo moooooooo, moooooooo mooo moo mooooooooo moo mooo

Queequeg's measure with great accuracy, regularly chalking Queequeg's
Mooooooo'm moooooo mooo moooo mooooooo, moooooooo mooooooo Mooooooo'm

person as he shifted the rule.
mooooo mo mo moooooo moo mooo.




"Ah! poor fellow! he'll have to die now," ejaculated the Long Island
"Mo! mooo mooooo! mo'mo mooo mo moo moo," mooooooooo moo Mooo Mooooo

sailor.
mooooo.




Going to his vice-bench, the carpenter for convenience sake and general
Moooo mo moo mooo-moooo, moo moooooooo moo moooooooooo mooo moo moooooo

reference, now transferringly measured on it the exact length the coffin
moooooooo, moo mooooooooooooo mooooooo mo mo moo moooo mooooo moo mooooo

was to be, and then made the transfer permanent by cutting two notches
moo mo mo, moo mooo mooo moo mooooooo moooooooo mo moooooo moo moooooo

at its extremities. This done, he marshalled the planks and his tools,
mo moo moooooooooo. Mooo mooo, mo mooooooooo moo mooooo moo moo moooo,

and to work.
moo mo mooo.




When the last nail was driven, and the lid duly planed and fitted,
Mooo moo mooo mooo moo mooooo, moo moo moo mooo mooooo moo mooooo,

he lightly shouldered the coffin and went forward with it, inquiring
mo moooooo mooooooooo moo mooooo moo mooo moooooo mooo mo, moooooooo

whether they were ready for it yet in that direction.
moooooo mooo mooo moooo moo mo moo mo mooo moooooooo.




Overhearing the indignant but half-humorous cries with which the
Moooooooooo moo moooooooo moo mooo-mooooooo moooo mooo moooo moo

people on deck began to drive the coffin away, Queequeg, to every one's
mooooo mo mooo moooo mo moooo moo mooooo mooo, Mooooooo, mo moooo moo'm

consternation, commanded that the thing should be instantly brought to
moooooooooooo, moooooooo mooo moo moooo mooooo mo moooooooo moooooo mo

him, nor was there any denying him; seeing that, of all mortals, some
moo, moo moo moooo moo moooooo moo; mooooo mooo, mo moo moooooo, mooo

dying men are the most tyrannical; and certainly, since they will
moooo moo moo moo mooo mooooooooo; moo moooooooo, moooo mooo mooo

shortly trouble us so little for evermore, the poor fellows ought to be
moooooo moooooo mo mo mooooo moo mooooooo, moo mooo moooooo moooo mo mo

indulged.
mooooooo.




Leaning over in his hammock, Queequeg long regarded the coffin with
Moooooo mooo mo moo moooooo, Mooooooo mooo mooooooo moo mooooo mooo

an attentive eye. He then called for his harpoon, had the wooden stock
mo moooooooo moo. Mo mooo mooooo moo moo moooooo, moo moo mooooo moooo

drawn from it, and then had the iron part placed in the coffin along
moooo mooo mo, moo mooo moo moo mooo mooo mooooo mo moo mooooo moooo

with one of the paddles of his boat. All by his own request, also,
mooo moo mo moo moooooo mo moo mooo. Moo mo moo moo moooooo, mooo,

biscuits were then ranged round the sides within: a flask of fresh water
mooooooo mooo mooo mooooo moooo moo moooo mooooo: m moooo mo moooo moooo

was placed at the head, and a small bag of woody earth scraped up in
moo mooooo mo moo mooo, moo m moooo moo mo moooo moooo moooooo mo mo

the hold at the foot; and a piece of sail-cloth being rolled up for a
moo mooo mo moo mooo; moo m moooo mo mooo-moooo moooo mooooo mo moo m

pillow, Queequeg now entreated to be lifted into his final bed, that he
mooooo, Mooooooo moo moooooooo mo mo mooooo mooo moo moooo moo, mooo mo

might make trial of its comforts, if any it had. He lay without moving
moooo mooo moooo mo moo mooooooo, mo moo mo moo. Mo moo moooooo mooooo

a few minutes, then told one to go to his bag and bring out his little
m moo moooooo, mooo mooo moo mo mo mo moo moo moo moooo moo moo mooooo

god, Yojo. Then crossing his arms on his breast with Yojo between, he
moo, Mooo. Mooo mooooooo moo mooo mo moo mooooo mooo Mooo moooooo, mo

called for the coffin lid (hatch he called it) to be placed over him.
mooooo moo moo mooooo moo (moooo mo mooooo mo) mo mo mooooo mooo moo.

The head part turned over with a leather hinge, and there lay Queequeg
Moo mooo mooo mooooo mooo mooo m moooooo moooo, moo moooo moo Mooooooo

in his coffin with little but his composed countenance in view. "Rarmai"
mo moo mooooo mooo mooooo moo moo mooooooo moooooooooo mo mooo. "Mooooo"

(it will do; it is easy), he murmured at last, and signed to be replaced
(mo mooo mo; mo mo mooo), mo mooooooo mo mooo, moo mooooo mo mo mooooooo

in his hammock.
mo moo moooooo.




But ere this was done, Pip, who had been slily hovering near by all this
Moo moo mooo moo mooo, Moo, moo moo mooo moooo mooooooo mooo mo moo mooo

while, drew nigh to him where he lay, and with soft sobbings, took him
moooo, mooo mooo mo moo moooo mo moo, moo mooo mooo mooooooo, mooo moo

by the hand; in the other, holding his tambourine.
mo moo mooo; mo moo moooo, moooooo moo mooooooooo.




"Poor rover! will ye never have done with all this weary roving? where
"Mooo moooo! mooo mo moooo mooo mooo mooo moo mooo moooo mooooo? moooo

go ye now? But if the currents carry ye to those sweet Antilles where
mo mo moo? Moo mo moo mooooooo moooo mo mo moooo moooo Mooooooo moooo

the beaches are only beat with water-lilies, will ye do one little
moo moooooo moo mooo mooo mooo moooo-mooooo, mooo mo mo moo mooooo

errand for me? Seek out one Pip, who's now been missing long: I think
mooooo moo mo? Mooo moo moo Moo, moo'm moo mooo moooooo mooo: M moooo

he's in those far Antilles. If ye find him, then comfort him; for he
mo'm mo moooo moo Mooooooo. Mo mo mooo moo, mooo moooooo moo; moo mo

must be very sad; for look! he's left his tambourine behind;--I found
mooo mo mooo moo; moo mooo! mo'm mooo moo mooooooooo mooooo;--M moooo

it. Rig-a-dig, dig, dig! Now, Queequeg, die; and I'll beat ye your dying
mo. Moo-m-moo, moo, moo! Moo, Mooooooo, moo; moo M'mo mooo mo mooo moooo

march."
moooo."




"I have heard," murmured Starbuck, gazing down the scuttle, "that in
"M mooo moooo," mooooooo Mooooooo, mooooo mooo moo moooooo, "mooo mo

violent fevers, men, all ignorance, have talked in ancient tongues;
moooooo mooooo, moo, moo moooooooo, mooo mooooo mo moooooo moooooo;

and that when the mystery is probed, it turns out always that in their
moo mooo mooo moo moooooo mo mooooo, mo moooo moo mooooo mooo mo moooo

wholly forgotten childhood those ancient tongues had been really spoken
mooooo moooooooo moooooooo moooo moooooo moooooo moo mooo mooooo mooooo

in their hearing by some lofty scholars. So, to my fond faith, poor Pip,
mo moooo moooooo mo mooo moooo mooooooo. Mo, mo mo mooo moooo, mooo Moo,

in this strange sweetness of his lunacy, brings heavenly vouchers of all
mo mooo moooooo moooooooo mo moo mooooo, mooooo mooooooo mooooooo mo moo

our heavenly homes. Where learned he that, but there?--Hark! he speaks
moo mooooooo moooo. Moooo moooooo mo mooo, moo moooo?--Mooo! mo mooooo

again: but more wildly now."
moooo: moo mooo mooooo moo."




"Form two and two! Let's make a General of him! Ho, where's his harpoon?
"Mooo moo moo moo! Moo'm mooo m Moooooo mo moo! Mo, moooo'm moo moooooo?

Lay it across here.--Rig-a-dig, dig, dig! huzza! Oh for a game cock
Moo mo mooooo mooo.--Moo-m-moo, moo, moo! moooo! Mo moo m mooo mooo

now to sit upon his head and crow! Queequeg dies game!--mind ye that;
moo mo moo mooo moo mooo moo mooo! Mooooooo mooo mooo!--mooo mo mooo;

Queequeg dies game!--take ye good heed of that; Queequeg dies game! I
Mooooooo mooo mooo!--mooo mo mooo mooo mo mooo; Mooooooo mooo mooo! M

say; game, game, game! but base little Pip, he died a coward; died all
moo; mooo, mooo, mooo! moo mooo mooooo Moo, mo mooo m mooooo; mooo moo

a'shiver;--out upon Pip! Hark ye; if ye find Pip, tell all the Antilles
m'mooooo;--moo mooo Moo! Mooo mo; mo mo mooo Moo, mooo moo moo Mooooooo

he's a runaway; a coward, a coward, a coward! Tell them he jumped from
mo'm m moooooo; m mooooo, m mooooo, m mooooo! Mooo mooo mo mooooo mooo

a whale-boat! I'd never beat my tambourine over base Pip, and hail
m moooo-mooo! M'm moooo mooo mo mooooooooo mooo mooo Moo, moo mooo

him General, if he were once more dying here. No, no! shame upon all
moo Moooooo, mo mo mooo mooo mooo moooo mooo. Mo, mo! moooo mooo moo

cowards--shame upon them! Let 'em go drown like Pip, that jumped from a
moooooo--moooo mooo mooo! Moo 'mo mo moooo mooo Moo, mooo mooooo mooo m

whale-boat. Shame! shame!"
moooo-mooo. Moooo! moooo!"




During all this, Queequeg lay with closed eyes, as if in a dream. Pip
Mooooo moo mooo, Mooooooo moo mooo mooooo mooo, mo mo mo m moooo. Moo

was led away, and the sick man was replaced in his hammock.
moo moo mooo, moo moo mooo moo moo mooooooo mo moo moooooo.




But now that he had apparently made every preparation for death; now
Moo moo mooo mo moo mooooooooo mooo moooo moooooooooo moo moooo; moo

that his coffin was proved a good fit, Queequeg suddenly rallied; soon
mooo moo mooooo moo mooooo m mooo moo, Mooooooo mooooooo moooooo; mooo

there seemed no need of the carpenter's box: and thereupon, when some
moooo mooooo mo mooo mo moo moooooooo'm moo: moo moooooooo, mooo mooo

expressed their delighted surprise, he, in substance, said, that the
moooooooo moooo moooooooo mooooooo, mo, mo moooooooo, mooo, mooo moo

cause of his sudden convalescence was this;--at a critical moment, he
moooo mo moo mooooo moooooooooooo moo mooo;--mo m mooooooo mooooo, mo

had just recalled a little duty ashore, which he was leaving undone;
moo mooo mooooooo m mooooo mooo mooooo, moooo mo moo moooooo mooooo;

and therefore had changed his mind about dying: he could not die yet,
moo moooooooo moo moooooo moo mooo moooo moooo: mo moooo moo moo moo,

he averred. They asked him, then, whether to live or die was a matter of
mo moooooo. Mooo moooo moo, mooo, moooooo mo mooo mo moo moo m mooooo mo

his own sovereign will and pleasure. He answered, certainly. In a word,
moo moo moooooooo mooo moo mooooooo. Mo mooooooo, moooooooo. Mo m mooo,

it was Queequeg's conceit, that if a man made up his mind to live, mere
mo moo Mooooooo'm moooooo, mooo mo m moo mooo mo moo mooo mo mooo, mooo

sickness could not kill him: nothing but a whale, or a gale, or some
mooooooo moooo moo mooo moo: moooooo moo m moooo, mo m mooo, mo mooo

violent, ungovernable, unintelligent destroyer of that sort.
moooooo, mooooooooooo, moooooooooooo moooooooo mo mooo mooo.




Now, there is this noteworthy difference between savage and civilized;
Moo, moooo mo mooo mooooooooo mooooooooo moooooo mooooo moo moooooooo;

that while a sick, civilized man may be six months convalescing,
mooo moooo m mooo, moooooooo moo moo mo moo mooooo mooooooooooo,

generally speaking, a sick savage is almost half-well again in a day.
moooooooo mooooooo, m mooo mooooo mo mooooo mooo-mooo moooo mo m moo.

So, in good time my Queequeg gained strength; and at length after
Mo, mo mooo mooo mo Mooooooo mooooo mooooooo; moo mo mooooo moooo

sitting on the windlass for a few indolent days (but eating with a
moooooo mo moo mooooooo moo m moo mooooooo mooo (moo mooooo mooo m

vigorous appetite) he suddenly leaped to his feet, threw out his arms
mooooooo mooooooo) mo mooooooo mooooo mo moo mooo, moooo moo moo mooo

and legs, gave himself a good stretching, yawned a little bit, and then
moo mooo, mooo moooooo m mooo mooooooooo, mooooo m mooooo moo, moo mooo

springing into the head of his hoisted boat, and poising a harpoon,
moooooooo mooo moo mooo mo moo moooooo mooo, moo moooooo m moooooo,

pronounced himself fit for a fight.
mooooooooo moooooo moo moo m moooo.




With a wild whimsiness, he now used his coffin for a sea-chest; and
Mooo m mooo mooooooooo, mo moo mooo moo mooooo moo m moo-moooo; moo

emptying into it his canvas bag of clothes, set them in order there.
mooooooo mooo mo moo mooooo moo mo moooooo, moo mooo mo moooo moooo.

Many spare hours he spent, in carving the lid with all manner of
Mooo moooo moooo mo moooo, mo moooooo moo moo mooo moo mooooo mo

grotesque figures and drawings; and it seemed that hereby he was
moooooooo moooooo moo mooooooo; moo mo mooooo mooo mooooo mo moo

striving, in his rude way, to copy parts of the twisted tattooing on
mooooooo, mo moo mooo moo, mo mooo moooo mo moo moooooo moooooooo mo

his body. And this tattooing had been the work of a departed prophet and
moo mooo. Moo mooo moooooooo moo mooo moo mooo mo m mooooooo moooooo moo

seer of his island, who, by those hieroglyphic marks, had written out on
mooo mo moo mooooo, moo, mo moooo mooooooooooo moooo, moo moooooo moo mo

his body a complete theory of the heavens and the earth, and a mystical
moo mooo m mooooooo mooooo mo moo moooooo moo moo moooo, moo m mooooooo

treatise on the art of attaining truth; so that Queequeg in his own
mooooooo mo moo moo mo moooooooo moooo; mo mooo Mooooooo mo moo moo

proper person was a riddle to unfold; a wondrous work in one volume; but
mooooo mooooo moo m mooooo mo mooooo; m mooooooo mooo mo moo mooooo; moo

whose mysteries not even himself could read, though his own live heart
moooo moooooooo moo mooo moooooo moooo mooo, mooooo moo moo mooo moooo

beat against them; and these mysteries were therefore destined in
mooo moooooo mooo; moo moooo moooooooo mooo moooooooo mooooooo mo

the end to moulder away with the living parchment whereon they were
moo moo mo moooooo mooo mooo moo mooooo moooooooo moooooo mooo mooo

inscribed, and so be unsolved to the last. And this thought it must
moooooooo, moo mo mo mooooooo mo moo mooo. Moo mooo moooooo mo mooo

have been which suggested to Ahab that wild exclamation of his, when
mooo mooo moooo moooooooo mo Mooo mooo mooo moooooooooo mo moo, mooo

one morning turning away from surveying poor Queequeg--"Oh, devilish
moo moooooo moooooo mooo mooo moooooooo mooo Mooooooo--"Mo, mooooooo

tantalization of the gods!"
moooooooooooo mo moo mooo!"










CHAPTER 111. The Pacific.
MOOOOOO moo. Moo Moooooo.







When gliding by the Bashee isles we emerged at last upon the great South
Mooo moooooo mo moo Mooooo moooo mo moooooo mo mooo mooo moo moooo Moooo

Sea; were it not for other things, I could have greeted my dear Pacific
Moo; mooo mo moo moo moooo mooooo, M moooo mooo moooooo mo mooo Moooooo

with uncounted thanks, for now the long supplication of my youth was
mooo moooooooo mooooo, moo moo moo mooo mooooooooooo mo mo moooo moo

answered; that serene ocean rolled eastwards from me a thousand leagues
mooooooo; mooo mooooo moooo mooooo moooooooo mooo mo m mooooooo moooooo

of blue.
mo mooo.




There is, one knows not what sweet mystery about this sea, whose gently
Moooo mo, moo moooo moo mooo moooo moooooo moooo mooo moo, moooo mooooo

awful stirrings seem to speak of some hidden soul beneath; like those
moooo moooooooo mooo mo moooo mo mooo mooooo mooo moooooo; mooo moooo

fabled undulations of the Ephesian sod over the buried Evangelist St.
mooooo moooooooooo mo moo Mooooooo moo mooo moo mooooo Mooooooooo Mo.

John. And meet it is, that over these sea-pastures, wide-rolling watery
Mooo. Moo mooo mo mo, mooo mooo moooo moo-mooooooo, mooo-moooooo mooooo

prairies and Potters' Fields of all four continents, the waves should
mooooooo moo Moooooo' Mooooo mo moo mooo mooooooooo, moo moooo mooooo

rise and fall, and ebb and flow unceasingly; for here, millions of mixed
mooo moo mooo, moo moo moo mooo moooooooooo; moo mooo, mooooooo mo moooo

shades and shadows, drowned dreams, somnambulisms, reveries; all that
mooooo moo moooooo, moooooo mooooo, moooooooooooo, mooooooo; moo mooo

we call lives and souls, lie dreaming, dreaming, still; tossing like
mo mooo moooo moo moooo, moo mooooooo, mooooooo, moooo; moooooo mooo

slumberers in their beds; the ever-rolling waves but made so by their
mooooooooo mo moooo mooo; moo mooo-moooooo moooo moo mooo mo mo moooo

restlessness.
mooooooooooo.




To any meditative Magian rover, this serene Pacific, once beheld, must
Mo moo mooooooooo Mooooo moooo, mooo mooooo Moooooo, mooo mooooo, mooo

ever after be the sea of his adoption. It rolls the midmost waters of
mooo moooo mo moo moo mo moo mooooooo. Mo moooo moo moooooo mooooo mo

the world, the Indian ocean and Atlantic being but its arms. The same
moo moooo, moo Mooooo moooo moo Mooooooo moooo moo moo mooo. Moo mooo

waves wash the moles of the new-built Californian towns, but yesterday
moooo mooo moo moooo mo moo moo-moooo Moooooooooo moooo, moo moooooooo

planted by the recentest race of men, and lave the faded but still
moooooo mo moo moooooooo mooo mo moo, moo mooo moo moooo moo moooo

gorgeous skirts of Asiatic lands, older than Abraham; while all between
mooooooo mooooo mo Moooooo moooo, moooo mooo Moooooo; moooo moo moooooo

float milky-ways of coral isles, and low-lying, endless, unknown
moooo moooo-mooo mo moooo moooo, moo moo-moooo, moooooo, moooooo

Archipelagoes, and impenetrable Japans. Thus this mysterious, divine
Moooooooooooo, moo mooooooooooo Mooooo. Mooo mooo mooooooooo, mooooo

Pacific zones the world's whole bulk about; makes all coasts one bay
Moooooo moooo moo moooo'm moooo mooo moooo; moooo moo mooooo moo moo

to it; seems the tide-beating heart of earth. Lifted by those eternal
mo mo; moooo moo mooo-moooooo moooo mo moooo. Mooooo mo moooo moooooo

swells, you needs must own the seductive god, bowing your head to Pan.
mooooo, moo moooo mooo moo moo moooooooo moo, mooooo mooo mooo mo Moo.




But few thoughts of Pan stirred Ahab's brain, as standing like an
Moo moo mooooooo mo Moo moooooo Mooo'm moooo, mo mooooooo mooo mo

iron statue at his accustomed place beside the mizen rigging, with one
mooo mooooo mo moo mooooooooo moooo mooooo moo moooo moooooo, mooo moo

nostril he unthinkingly snuffed the sugary musk from the Bashee isles
moooooo mo mooooooooooo moooooo moo mooooo mooo mooo moo Mooooo moooo

(in whose sweet woods mild lovers must be walking), and with the other
(mo moooo moooo moooo mooo mooooo mooo mo moooooo), moo mooo moo moooo

consciously inhaled the salt breath of the new found sea; that sea in
moooooooooo moooooo moo mooo mooooo mo moo moo moooo moo; mooo moo mo

which the hated White Whale must even then be swimming. Launched at
moooo moo moooo Moooo Moooo mooo mooo mooo mo mooooooo. Mooooooo mo

length upon these almost final waters, and gliding towards the Japanese
mooooo mooo moooo mooooo moooo mooooo, moo moooooo moooooo moo Mooooooo

cruising-ground, the old man's purpose intensified itself. His firm lips
mooooooo-mooooo, moo moo moo'm moooooo moooooooooo mooooo. Moo mooo mooo

met like the lips of a vice; the Delta of his forehead's veins swelled
moo mooo moo mooo mo m mooo; moo Moooo mo moo mooooooo'm moooo moooooo

like overladen brooks; in his very sleep, his ringing cry ran through
mooo moooooooo mooooo; mo moo mooo moooo, moo moooooo moo moo moooooo

the vaulted hull, "Stern all! the White Whale spouts thick blood!"
moo moooooo mooo, "Moooo moo! moo Moooo Moooo mooooo moooo moooo!"










CHAPTER 112. The Blacksmith.
MOOOOOO moo. Moo Mooooooooo.







Availing himself of the mild, summer-cool weather that now reigned in
Mooooooo moooooo mo moo mooo, mooooo-mooo moooooo mooo moo moooooo mo

these latitudes, and in preparation for the peculiarly active
moooo moooooooo, moo mo moooooooooo moo moo mooooooooo mooooo

pursuits shortly to be anticipated, Perth, the begrimed, blistered old
mooooooo moooooo mo mo moooooooooo, Moooo, moo mooooooo, moooooooo moo

blacksmith, had not removed his portable forge to the hold again, after
mooooooooo, moo moo moooooo moo mooooooo moooo mo moo mooo moooo, moooo

concluding his contributory work for Ahab's leg, but still retained
mooooooooo moo mooooooooooo mooo moo Mooo'm moo, moo moooo mooooooo

it on deck, fast lashed to ringbolts by the foremast; being now almost
mo mo mooo, mooo mooooo mo moooooooo mo moo mooooooo; moooo moo mooooo

incessantly invoked by the headsmen, and harpooneers, and bowsmen to do
moooooooooo moooooo mo moo mooooooo, moo moooooooooo, moo moooooo mo mo

some little job for them; altering, or repairing, or new shaping their
mooo mooooo moo moo mooo; mooooooo, mo moooooooo, mo moo moooooo moooo

various weapons and boat furniture. Often he would be surrounded by an
moooooo moooooo moo mooo moooooooo. Moooo mo moooo mo mooooooooo mo mo

eager circle, all waiting to be served; holding boat-spades, pike-heads,
moooo mooooo, moo moooooo mo mo mooooo; moooooo mooo-mooooo, mooo-moooo,

harpoons, and lances, and jealously watching his every sooty movement,
mooooooo, moo mooooo, moo moooooooo mooooooo moo moooo moooo mooooooo,

as he toiled. Nevertheless, this old man's was a patient hammer wielded
mo mo mooooo. Mooooooooooo, mooo moo moo'm moo m moooooo mooooo moooooo

by a patient arm. No murmur, no impatience, no petulance did come from
mo m moooooo moo. Mo mooooo, mo mooooooooo, mo moooooooo moo mooo mooo

him. Silent, slow, and solemn; bowing over still further his chronically
moo. Mooooo, mooo, moo mooooo; mooooo mooo moooo moooooo moo moooooooooo

broken back, he toiled away, as if toil were life itself, and the
mooooo mooo, mo mooooo mooo, mo mo mooo mooo mooo mooooo, moo moo

heavy beating of his hammer the heavy beating of his heart. And so it
moooo moooooo mo moo mooooo moo moooo moooooo mo moo moooo. Moo mo mo

was.--Most miserable!
moo.--Mooo moooooooo!




A peculiar walk in this old man, a certain slight but painful appearing
M mooooooo mooo mo mooo moo moo, m moooooo mooooo moo moooooo moooooooo

yawing in his gait, had at an early period of the voyage excited the
mooooo mo moo mooo, moo mo mo moooo mooooo mo moo mooooo moooooo moo

curiosity of the mariners. And to the importunity of their persisted
moooooooo mo moo mooooooo. Moo mo moo moooooooooo mo moooo moooooooo

questionings he had finally given in; and so it came to pass that every
mooooooooooo mo moo moooooo moooo mo; moo mo mo mooo mo mooo mooo moooo

one now knew the shameful story of his wretched fate.
moo moo mooo moo mooooooo moooo mo moo mooooooo mooo.




Belated, and not innocently, one bitter winter's midnight, on the road
Moooooo, moo moo mooooooooo, moo mooooo mooooo'm mooooooo, mo moo mooo

running between two country towns, the blacksmith half-stupidly felt
moooooo moooooo moo moooooo moooo, moo mooooooooo mooo-mooooooo mooo

the deadly numbness stealing over him, and sought refuge in a leaning,
moo mooooo mooooooo mooooooo mooo moo, moo mooooo mooooo mo m moooooo,

dilapidated barn. The issue was, the loss of the extremities of both
moooooooooo mooo. Moo moooo moo, moo mooo mo moo moooooooooo mo mooo

feet. Out of this revelation, part by part, at last came out the four
mooo. Moo mo mooo mooooooooo, mooo mo mooo, mo mooo mooo moo moo mooo

acts of the gladness, and the one long, and as yet uncatastrophied fifth
mooo mo moo mooooooo, moo moo moo mooo, moo mo moo moooooooooooooo moooo

act of the grief of his life's drama.
moo mo moo moooo mo moo mooo'm moooo.




He was an old man, who, at the age of nearly sixty, had postponedly
Mo moo mo moo moo, moo, mo moo moo mo mooooo moooo, moo moooooooooo

encountered that thing in sorrow's technicals called ruin. He had been
moooooooooo mooo moooo mo mooooo'm mooooooooo mooooo mooo. Mo moo mooo

an artisan of famed excellence, and with plenty to do; owned a house
mo moooooo mo moooo mooooooooo, moo mooo mooooo mo mo; moooo m moooo

and garden; embraced a youthful, daughter-like, loving wife, and three
moo mooooo; mooooooo m mooooooo, mooooooo-mooo, mooooo mooo, moo moooo

blithe, ruddy children; every Sunday went to a cheerful-looking church,
mooooo, moooo mooooooo; moooo Mooooo mooo mo m mooooooo-moooooo mooooo,

planted in a grove. But one night, under cover of darkness, and further
moooooo mo m moooo. Moo moo moooo, moooo moooo mo mooooooo, moo moooooo

concealed in a most cunning disguisement, a desperate burglar slid into
moooooooo mo m mooo moooooo mooooooooooo, m moooooooo moooooo mooo mooo

his happy home, and robbed them all of everything. And darker yet to
moo moooo mooo, moo mooooo mooo moo mo mooooooooo. Moo mooooo moo mo

tell, the blacksmith himself did ignorantly conduct this burglar into
mooo, moo mooooooooo moooooo moo mooooooooo moooooo mooo moooooo mooo

his family's heart. It was the Bottle Conjuror! Upon the opening of that
moo mooooo'm moooo. Mo moo moo Mooooo Mooooooo! Mooo moo moooooo mo mooo

fatal cork, forth flew the fiend, and shrivelled up his home. Now, for
moooo mooo, moooo mooo moo moooo, moo mooooooooo mo moo mooo. Moo, moo

prudent, most wise, and economic reasons, the blacksmith's shop was in
moooooo, mooo mooo, moo mooooooo moooooo, moo mooooooooo'm mooo moo mo

the basement of his dwelling, but with a separate entrance to it; so
moo mooooooo mo moo mooooooo, moo mooo m mooooooo mooooooo mo mo; mo

that always had the young and loving healthy wife listened with no
mooo mooooo moo moo moooo moo mooooo moooooo mooo mooooooo mooo mo

unhappy nervousness, but with vigorous pleasure, to the stout ringing of
moooooo moooooooooo, moo mooo mooooooo mooooooo, mo moo moooo moooooo mo

her young-armed old husband's hammer; whose reverberations, muffled by
moo moooo-moooo moo moooooo'm mooooo; moooo mooooooooooooo, moooooo mo

passing through the floors and walls, came up to her, not unsweetly,
moooooo moooooo moo mooooo moo moooo, mooo mo mo moo, moo moooooooo,

in her nursery; and so, to stout Labor's iron lullaby, the blacksmith's
mo moo moooooo; moo mo, mo moooo Moooo'm mooo moooooo, moo mooooooooo'm

infants were rocked to slumber.
moooooo mooo mooooo mo moooooo.




Oh, woe on woe! Oh, Death, why canst thou not sometimes be timely? Hadst
Mo, moo mo moo! Mo, Moooo, moo moooo mooo moo moooooooo mo mooooo? Moooo

thou taken this old blacksmith to thyself ere his full ruin came upon
mooo moooo mooo moo mooooooooo mo moooooo moo moo mooo mooo mooo mooo

him, then had the young widow had a delicious grief, and her orphans a
moo, mooo moo moo moooo moooo moo m moooooooo moooo, moo moo moooooo m

truly venerable, legendary sire to dream of in their after years; and
moooo moooooooo, moooooooo mooo mo moooo mo mo moooo moooo moooo; moo

all of them a care-killing competency. But Death plucked down some
moo mo mooo m mooo-moooooo mooooooooo. Moo Moooo moooooo mooo mooo

virtuous elder brother, on whose whistling daily toil solely hung the
mooooooo moooo moooooo, mo moooo moooooooo moooo mooo mooooo mooo moo

responsibilities of some other family, and left the worse than useless
mooooooooooooooo mo mooo moooo mooooo, moo mooo moo moooo mooo moooooo

old man standing, till the hideous rot of life should make him easier to
moo moo mooooooo, mooo moo moooooo moo mo mooo mooooo mooo moo mooooo mo

harvest.
moooooo.




Why tell the whole? The blows of the basement hammer every day grew more
Moo mooo moo moooo? Moo moooo mo moo mooooooo mooooo moooo moo mooo mooo

and more between; and each blow every day grew fainter than the last;
moo mooo moooooo; moo mooo mooo moooo moo mooo moooooo mooo moo mooo;

the wife sat frozen at the window, with tearless eyes, glitteringly
moo mooo moo mooooo mo moo mooooo, mooo mooooooo mooo, mooooooooooo

gazing into the weeping faces of her children; the bellows fell; the
mooooo mooo moo moooooo moooo mo moo mooooooo; moo moooooo mooo; moo

forge choked up with cinders; the house was sold; the mother dived
moooo mooooo mo mooo moooooo; moo moooo moo mooo; moo mooooo moooo

down into the long church-yard grass; her children twice followed her
mooo mooo moo mooo mooooo-mooo moooo; moo mooooooo moooo mooooooo moo

thither; and the houseless, familyless old man staggered off a vagabond
moooooo; moo moo moooooooo, mooooooooo moo moo moooooooo moo m mooooooo

in crape; his every woe unreverenced; his grey head a scorn to flaxen
mo moooo; moo moooo moo mooooooooooo; moo mooo mooo m moooo mo mooooo

curls!
moooo!




Death seems the only desirable sequel for a career like this; but Death
Moooo moooo moo mooo moooooooo mooooo moo m mooooo mooo mooo; moo Moooo

is only a launching into the region of the strange Untried; it is but
mo mooo m moooooooo mooo moo mooooo mo moo moooooo Moooooo; mo mo moo

the first salutation to the possibilities of the immense Remote, the
moo moooo mooooooooo mo moo moooooooooooo mo moo moooooo Mooooo, moo

Wild, the Watery, the Unshored; therefore, to the death-longing eyes of
Mooo, moo Mooooo, moo Mooooooo; moooooooo, mo moo moooo-moooooo mooo mo

such men, who still have left in them some interior compunctions against
mooo moo, moo moooo mooo mooo mo mooo mooo mooooooo mooooooooooo moooooo

suicide, does the all-contributed and all-receptive ocean alluringly
moooooo, mooo moo moo-moooooooooo moo moo-moooooooo moooo mooooooooo

spread forth his whole plain of unimaginable, taking terrors, and
mooooo moooo moo moooo moooo mo mooooooooooo, mooooo moooooo, moo

wonderful, new-life adventures; and from the hearts of infinite
moooooooo, moo-mooo mooooooooo; moo mooo moo mooooo mo mooooooo

Pacifics, the thousand mermaids sing to them--"Come hither,
Mooooooo, moo mooooooo mooooooo mooo mo mooo--"Mooo mooooo,

broken-hearted; here is another life without the guilt of intermediate
mooooo-moooooo; mooo mo moooooo mooo moooooo moo moooo mo mooooooooooo

death; here are wonders supernatural, without dying for them. Come
moooo; mooo moo moooooo mooooooooooo, moooooo moooo moo mooo. Mooo

hither! bury thyself in a life which, to your now equally abhorred and
mooooo! mooo moooooo mo m mooo moooo, mo mooo moo moooooo mooooooo moo

abhorring, landed world, is more oblivious than death. Come hither! put
moooooooo, mooooo moooo, mo mooo moooooooo mooo moooo. Mooo mooooo! moo

up THY gravestone, too, within the churchyard, and come hither, till we
mo MOO mooooooooo, moo, mooooo moo mooooooooo, moo mooo mooooo, mooo mo

marry thee!"
moooo mooo!"




Hearkening to these voices, East and West, by early sunrise, and by fall
Mooooooooo mo moooo mooooo, Mooo moo Mooo, mo moooo moooooo, moo mo mooo

of eve, the blacksmith's soul responded, Aye, I come! And so Perth went
mo moo, moo mooooooooo'm mooo moooooooo, Moo, M mooo! Moo mo Moooo mooo

a-whaling.
m-moooooo.










CHAPTER 113. The Forge.
MOOOOOO moo. Moo Moooo.







With matted beard, and swathed in a bristling shark-skin apron, about
Mooo mooooo moooo, moo moooooo mo m moooooooo moooo-mooo moooo, moooo

mid-day, Perth was standing between his forge and anvil, the latter
moo-moo, Moooo moo mooooooo moooooo moo moooo moo moooo, moo mooooo

placed upon an iron-wood log, with one hand holding a pike-head in the
mooooo mooo mo mooo-mooo moo, mooo moo mooo moooooo m mooo-mooo mo moo

coals, and with the other at his forge's lungs, when Captain Ahab came
moooo, moo mooo moo moooo mo moo moooo'm moooo, mooo Moooooo Mooo mooo

along, carrying in his hand a small rusty-looking leathern bag. While
moooo, mooooooo mo moo mooo m moooo moooo-moooooo mooooooo moo. Moooo

yet a little distance from the forge, moody Ahab paused; till at last,
moo m mooooo mooooooo mooo moo moooo, moooo Mooo mooooo; mooo mo mooo,

Perth, withdrawing his iron from the fire, began hammering it upon the
Moooo, moooooooooo moo mooo mooo moo mooo, moooo moooooooo mo mooo moo

anvil--the red mass sending off the sparks in thick hovering flights,
moooo--moo moo mooo moooooo moo moo mooooo mo moooo mooooooo moooooo,

some of which flew close to Ahab.
mooo mo moooo mooo moooo mo Mooo.




"Are these thy Mother Carey's chickens, Perth? they are always flying
"Moo moooo moo Mooooo Moooo'm mooooooo, Moooo? mooo moo mooooo mooooo

in thy wake; birds of good omen, too, but not to all;--look here, they
mo moo mooo; moooo mo mooo mooo, moo, moo moo mo moo;--mooo mooo, mooo

burn; but thou--thou liv'st among them without a scorch."
mooo; moo mooo--mooo moo'mo moooo mooo moooooo m mooooo."




"Because I am scorched all over, Captain Ahab," answered Perth, resting
"Moooooo M mo mooooooo moo mooo, Moooooo Mooo," mooooooo Moooo, moooooo

for a moment on his hammer; "I am past scorching; not easily can'st thou
moo m mooooo mo moo mooooo; "M mo mooo moooooooo; moo mooooo moo'mo mooo

scorch a scar."
mooooo m mooo."




"Well, well; no more. Thy shrunk voice sounds too calmly, sanely woeful
"Mooo, mooo; mo mooo. Moo mooooo moooo mooooo moo mooooo, mooooo mooooo

to me. In no Paradise myself, I am impatient of all misery in others
mo mo. Mo mo Mooooooo mooooo, M mo moooooooo mo moo mooooo mo mooooo

that is not mad. Thou should'st go mad, blacksmith; say, why dost thou
mooo mo moo moo. Mooo mooooo'mo mo moo, mooooooooo; moo, moo mooo mooo

not go mad? How can'st thou endure without being mad? Do the heavens yet
moo mo moo? Moo moo'mo mooo mooooo moooooo moooo moo? Mo moo moooooo moo

hate thee, that thou can'st not go mad?--What wert thou making there?"
mooo mooo, mooo mooo moo'mo moo mo moo?--Mooo mooo mooo mooooo moooo?"




"Welding an old pike-head, sir; there were seams and dents in it."
"Moooooo mo moo mooo-mooo, moo; moooo mooo moooo moo moooo mo mo."




"And can'st thou make it all smooth again, blacksmith, after such hard
"Moo moo'mo mooo mooo mo moo mooooo moooo, mooooooooo, moooo mooo mooo

usage as it had?"
moooo mo mo moo?"




"I think so, sir."
"M moooo mo, moo."




"And I suppose thou can'st smoothe almost any seams and dents; never
"Moo M moooooo mooo moo'mo moooooo mooooo moo moooo moo moooo; moooo

mind how hard the metal, blacksmith?"
mooo moo mooo moo moooo, mooooooooo?"




"Aye, sir, I think I can; all seams and dents but one."
"Moo, moo, M moooo M moo; moo moooo moo moooo moo moo."




"Look ye here, then," cried Ahab, passionately advancing, and leaning
"Mooo mo mooo, mooo," moooo Mooo, mooooooooooo moooooooo, moo moooooo

with both hands on Perth's shoulders; "look ye here--HERE--can ye
mooo mooo moooo mo Moooo'm moooooooo; "mooo mo mooo--MOOO--moo mo

smoothe out a seam like this, blacksmith," sweeping one hand across his
moooooo moo m mooo mooo mooo, mooooooooo," mooooooo moo mooo mooooo moo

ribbed brow; "if thou could'st, blacksmith, glad enough would I lay
mooooo mooo; "mo mooo moooo'mo, mooooooooo, mooo mooooo moooo M moo

my head upon thy anvil, and feel thy heaviest hammer between my eyes.
mo mooo mooo moo moooo, moo mooo moo mooooooo mooooo moooooo mo mooo.

Answer! Can'st thou smoothe this seam?"
Mooooo! Moo'mo mooo moooooo mooo mooo?"




"Oh! that is the one, sir! Said I not all seams and dents but one?"
"Mo! mooo mo moo moo, moo! Mooo M moo moo moooo moo moooo moo moo?"




"Aye, blacksmith, it is the one; aye, man, it is unsmoothable; for
"Moo, mooooooooo, mo mo moo moo; moo, moo, mo mo mooooooooooo; moo

though thou only see'st it here in my flesh, it has worked down into the
mooooo mooo mooo moo'mo mo mooo mo mo moooo, mo moo mooooo mooo mooo moo

bone of my skull--THAT is all wrinkles! But, away with child's play; no
mooo mo mo moooo--MOOO mo moo mooooooo! Moo, mooo mooo moooo'm mooo; mo

more gaffs and pikes to-day. Look ye here!" jingling the leathern bag,
mooo moooo moo moooo mo-moo. Mooo mo mooo!" mooooooo moo mooooooo moo,

as if it were full of gold coins. "I, too, want a harpoon made; one that
mo mo mo mooo mooo mo mooo moooo. "M, moo, mooo m moooooo mooo; moo mooo

a thousand yoke of fiends could not part, Perth; something that will
m mooooooo mooo mo mooooo moooo moo mooo, Moooo; moooooooo mooo mooo

stick in a whale like his own fin-bone. There's the stuff," flinging
moooo mo m moooo mooo moo moo moo-mooo. Moooo'm moo moooo," mooooooo

the pouch upon the anvil. "Look ye, blacksmith, these are the gathered
moo moooo mooo moo moooo. "Mooo mo, mooooooooo, moooo moo moo mooooooo

nail-stubbs of the steel shoes of racing horses."
mooo-mooooo mo moo moooo moooo mo mooooo mooooo."




"Horse-shoe stubbs, sir? Why, Captain Ahab, thou hast here, then, the
"Moooo-mooo mooooo, moo? Moo, Moooooo Mooo, mooo mooo mooo, mooo, moo

best and stubbornest stuff we blacksmiths ever work."
mooo moo moooooooooo moooo mo moooooooooo mooo mooo."




"I know it, old man; these stubbs will weld together like glue from the
"M mooo mo, moo moo; moooo mooooo mooo mooo mooooooo mooo mooo mooo moo

melted bones of murderers. Quick! forge me the harpoon. And forge me
mooooo moooo mo moooooooo. Moooo! moooo mo moo moooooo. Moo moooo mo

first, twelve rods for its shank; then wind, and twist, and hammer these
moooo, mooooo mooo moo moo moooo; mooo mooo, moo moooo, moo mooooo moooo

twelve together like the yarns and strands of a tow-line. Quick! I'll
mooooo mooooooo mooo moo moooo moo moooooo mo m moo-mooo. Moooo! M'mo

blow the fire."
mooo moo mooo."




When at last the twelve rods were made, Ahab tried them, one by one, by
Mooo mo mooo moo mooooo mooo mooo mooo, Mooo moooo mooo, moo mo moo, mo

spiralling them, with his own hand, round a long, heavy iron bolt. "A
mooooooooo mooo, mooo moo moo mooo, moooo m mooo, moooo mooo mooo. "M

flaw!" rejecting the last one. "Work that over again, Perth."
mooo!" moooooooo moo mooo moo. "Mooo mooo mooo moooo, Moooo."




This done, Perth was about to begin welding the twelve into one, when
Mooo mooo, Moooo moo moooo mo moooo moooooo moo mooooo mooo moo, mooo

Ahab stayed his hand, and said he would weld his own iron. As, then,
Mooo mooooo moo mooo, moo mooo mo moooo mooo moo moo mooo. Mo, mooo,

with regular, gasping hems, he hammered on the anvil, Perth passing to
mooo moooooo, moooooo mooo, mo mooooooo mo moo moooo, Moooo moooooo mo

him the glowing rods, one after the other, and the hard pressed forge
moo moo moooooo mooo, moo moooo moo moooo, moo moo mooo moooooo moooo

shooting up its intense straight flame, the Parsee passed silently, and
mooooooo mo moo moooooo mooooooo moooo, moo Mooooo mooooo mooooooo, moo

bowing over his head towards the fire, seemed invoking some curse or
mooooo mooo moo mooo moooooo moo mooo, mooooo mooooooo mooo moooo mo

some blessing on the toil. But, as Ahab looked up, he slid aside.
mooo mooooooo mo moo mooo. Moo, mo Mooo mooooo mo, mo mooo moooo.




"What's that bunch of lucifers dodging about there for?" muttered Stubb,
"Mooo'm mooo moooo mo mooooooo moooooo moooo moooo moo?" mooooooo Moooo,

looking on from the forecastle. "That Parsee smells fire like a fusee;
moooooo mo mooo moo mooooooooo. "Mooo Mooooo mooooo mooo mooo m moooo;

and smells of it himself, like a hot musket's powder-pan."
moo mooooo mo mo moooooo, mooo m moo mooooo'm mooooo-moo."




At last the shank, in one complete rod, received its final heat; and as
Mo mooo moo moooo, mo moo mooooooo moo, mooooooo moo moooo mooo; moo mo

Perth, to temper it, plunged it all hissing into the cask of water near
Moooo, mo mooooo mo, moooooo mo moo moooooo mooo moo mooo mo moooo mooo

by, the scalding steam shot up into Ahab's bent face.
mo, moo mooooooo moooo mooo mo mooo Mooo'm mooo mooo.




"Would'st thou brand me, Perth?" wincing for a moment with the pain;
"Moooo'mo mooo moooo mo, Moooo?" moooooo moo m mooooo mooo moo mooo;

"have I been but forging my own branding-iron, then?"
"mooo M mooo moo moooooo mo moo mooooooo-mooo, mooo?"




"Pray God, not that; yet I fear something, Captain Ahab. Is not this
"Mooo Moo, moo mooo; moo M mooo moooooooo, Moooooo Mooo. Mo moo mooo

harpoon for the White Whale?"
moooooo moo moo Moooo Moooo?"




"For the white fiend! But now for the barbs; thou must make them
"Moo moo moooo moooo! Moo moo moo moo moooo; mooo mooo mooo mooo

thyself, man. Here are my razors--the best of steel; here, and make the
moooooo, moo. Mooo moo mo mooooo--moo mooo mo moooo; mooo, moo mooo moo

barbs sharp as the needle-sleet of the Icy Sea."
moooo moooo mo moo mooooo-moooo mo moo Moo Moo."




For a moment, the old blacksmith eyed the razors as though he would fain
Moo m mooooo, moo moo mooooooooo mooo moo mooooo mo mooooo mo moooo mooo

not use them.
moo moo mooo.




"Take them, man, I have no need for them; for I now neither shave, sup,
"Mooo mooo, moo, M mooo mo mooo moo mooo; moo M moo moooooo moooo, moo,

nor pray till--but here--to work!"
moo mooo mooo--moo mooo--mo mooo!"




Fashioned at last into an arrowy shape, and welded by Perth to the
Moooooooo mo mooo mooo mo mooooo moooo, moo mooooo mo Moooo mo moo

shank, the steel soon pointed the end of the iron; and as the blacksmith
moooo, moo moooo mooo moooooo moo moo mo moo mooo; moo mo moo mooooooooo

was about giving the barbs their final heat, prior to tempering them, he
moo moooo mooooo moo moooo moooo moooo mooo, moooo mo moooooooo mooo, mo

cried to Ahab to place the water-cask near.
moooo mo Mooo mo moooo moo moooo-mooo mooo.




"No, no--no water for that; I want it of the true death-temper. Ahoy,
"Mo, mo--mo moooo moo mooo; M mooo mo mo moo mooo moooo-mooooo. Mooo,

there! Tashtego, Queequeg, Daggoo! What say ye, pagans! Will ye give me
moooo! Mooooooo, Mooooooo, Mooooo! Mooo moo mo, mooooo! Mooo mo mooo mo

as much blood as will cover this barb?" holding it high up. A cluster of
mo mooo moooo mo mooo moooo mooo mooo?" moooooo mo mooo mo. M moooooo mo

dark nods replied, Yes. Three punctures were made in the heathen flesh,
mooo mooo moooooo, Moo. Moooo moooooooo mooo mooo mo moo moooooo moooo,

and the White Whale's barbs were then tempered.
moo moo Moooo Moooo'm moooo mooo mooo mooooooo.




"Ego non baptizo te in nomine patris, sed in nomine diaboli!"
"Moo moo moooooo mo mo mooooo mooooo, moo mo mooooo moooooo!"

deliriously howled Ahab, as the malignant iron scorchingly devoured the
moooooooooo mooooo Mooo, mo moo moooooooo mooo moooooooooo mooooooo moo

baptismal blood.
moooooooo moooo.




Now, mustering the spare poles from below, and selecting one of hickory,
Moo, moooooooo moo moooo moooo mooo moooo, moo moooooooo moo mo moooooo,

with the bark still investing it, Ahab fitted the end to the socket of
mooo moo mooo moooo moooooooo mo, Mooo mooooo moo moo mo moo mooooo mo

the iron. A coil of new tow-line was then unwound, and some fathoms of
moo mooo. M mooo mo moo moo-mooo moo mooo moooooo, moo mooo moooooo mo

it taken to the windlass, and stretched to a great tension. Pressing
mo moooo mo moo mooooooo, moo moooooooo mo m moooo moooooo. Mooooooo

his foot upon it, till the rope hummed like a harp-string, then eagerly
moo mooo mooo mo, mooo moo mooo mooooo mooo m mooo-mooooo, mooo moooooo

bending over it, and seeing no strandings, Ahab exclaimed, "Good! and
moooooo mooo mo, moo mooooo mo mooooooooo, Mooo moooooooo, "Mooo! moo

now for the seizings."
moo moo moo mooooooo."




At one extremity the rope was unstranded, and the separate spread yarns
Mo moo moooooooo moo mooo moo mooooooooo, moo moo mooooooo mooooo moooo

were all braided and woven round the socket of the harpoon; the pole
mooo moo moooooo moo moooo moooo moo mooooo mo moo moooooo; moo mooo

was then driven hard up into the socket; from the lower end the rope
moo mooo mooooo mooo mo mooo moo mooooo; mooo moo moooo moo moo mooo

was traced half-way along the pole's length, and firmly secured so, with
moo mooooo mooo-moo moooo moo mooo'm mooooo, moo mooooo moooooo mo, mooo

intertwistings of twine. This done, pole, iron, and rope--like the Three
mooooooooooooo mo moooo. Mooo mooo, mooo, mooo, moo mooo--mooo moo Moooo

Fates--remained inseparable, and Ahab moodily stalked away with the
Moooo--mooooooo moooooooooo, moo Mooo moooooo moooooo mooo mooo moo

weapon; the sound of his ivory leg, and the sound of the hickory pole,
mooooo; moo moooo mo moo moooo moo, moo moo moooo mo moo moooooo mooo,

both hollowly ringing along every plank. But ere he entered his cabin,
mooo mooooooo moooooo moooo moooo moooo. Moo moo mo moooooo moo moooo,

light, unnatural, half-bantering, yet most piteous sound was heard. Oh,
moooo, moooooooo, mooo-moooooooo, moo mooo moooooo moooo moo moooo. Mo,

Pip! thy wretched laugh, thy idle but unresting eye; all thy strange
Moo! moo mooooooo moooo, moo mooo moo moooooooo moo; moo moo moooooo

mummeries not unmeaningly blended with the black tragedy of the
moooooooo moo moooooooooo moooooo mooo moo moooo moooooo mo moo

melancholy ship, and mocked it!
mooooooooo mooo, moo mooooo mo!










CHAPTER 114. The Gilder.
MOOOOOO moo. Moo Mooooo.







Penetrating further and further into the heart of the Japanese cruising
Moooooooooo moooooo moo moooooo mooo moo moooo mo moo Mooooooo mooooooo

ground, the Pequod was soon all astir in the fishery. Often, in mild,
mooooo, moo Mooooo moo mooo moo moooo mo moo moooooo. Moooo, mo mooo,

pleasant weather, for twelve, fifteen, eighteen, and twenty hours on the
mooooooo moooooo, moo mooooo, moooooo, mooooooo, moo mooooo moooo mo moo

stretch, they were engaged in the boats, steadily pulling, or sailing,
moooooo, mooo mooo moooooo mo moo moooo, mooooooo moooooo, mo moooooo,

or paddling after the whales, or for an interlude of sixty or seventy
mo mooooooo moooo moo mooooo, mo moo mo moooooooo mo moooo mo moooooo

minutes calmly awaiting their uprising; though with but small success
moooooo mooooo mooooooo moooo mooooooo; mooooo mooo moo moooo moooooo

for their pains.
moo moooo moooo.




At such times, under an abated sun; afloat all day upon smooth, slow
Mo mooo moooo, moooo mo mooooo moo; mooooo moo moo mooo mooooo, mooo

heaving swells; seated in his boat, light as a birch canoe; and so
moooooo mooooo; mooooo mo moo mooo, moooo mo m moooo moooo; moo mo

sociably mixing with the soft waves themselves, that like hearth-stone
mooooooo mooooo mooo moo mooo moooo mooooooooo, mooo mooo mooooo-moooo

cats they purr against the gunwale; these are the times of dreamy
mooo mooo mooo moooooo moo moooooo; moooo moo moo moooo mo mooooo

quietude, when beholding the tranquil beauty and brilliancy of the
mooooooo, mooo moooooooo moo mooooooo mooooo moo mooooooooo mo moo

ocean's skin, one forgets the tiger heart that pants beneath it; and
moooo'm mooo, moo moooooo moo moooo moooo mooo moooo moooooo mo; moo

would not willingly remember, that this velvet paw but conceals a
moooo moo moooooooo mooooooo, mooo mooo mooooo moo moo mooooooo m

remorseless fang.
moooooooooo mooo.




These are the times, when in his whale-boat the rover softly feels a
Moooo moo moo moooo, mooo mo moo moooo-mooo moo moooo mooooo moooo m

certain filial, confident, land-like feeling towards the sea; that he
moooooo mooooo, moooooooo, mooo-mooo moooooo moooooo moo moo; mooo mo

regards it as so much flowery earth; and the distant ship revealing
moooooo mo mo mo mooo moooooo moooo; moo moo moooooo mooo moooooooo

only the tops of her masts, seems struggling forward, not through high
mooo moo mooo mo moo moooo, moooo mooooooooo moooooo, moo moooooo mooo

rolling waves, but through the tall grass of a rolling prairie: as when
moooooo moooo, moo moooooo moo mooo moooo mo m moooooo moooooo: mo mooo

the western emigrants' horses only show their erected ears, while their
moo moooooo moooooooo' mooooo mooo mooo moooo moooooo mooo, moooo moooo

hidden bodies widely wade through the amazing verdure.
mooooo mooooo mooooo mooo moooooo moo moooooo moooooo.




The long-drawn virgin vales; the mild blue hill-sides; as over these
Moo mooo-moooo mooooo moooo; moo mooo mooo mooo-moooo; mo mooo moooo

there steals the hush, the hum; you almost swear that play-wearied
moooo mooooo moo mooo, moo moo; moo mooooo moooo mooo mooo-moooooo

children lie sleeping in these solitudes, in some glad May-time, when
mooooooo moo mooooooo mo moooo moooooooo, mo mooo mooo Moo-mooo, mooo

the flowers of the woods are plucked. And all this mixes with your most
moo moooooo mo moo moooo moo moooooo. Moo moo mooo moooo mooo mooo mooo

mystic mood; so that fact and fancy, half-way meeting, interpenetrate,
mooooo mooo; mo mooo mooo moo moooo, mooo-moo moooooo, mooooooooooooo,

and form one seamless whole.
moo mooo moo mooooooo moooo.




Nor did such soothing scenes, however temporary, fail of at least as
Moo moo mooo mooooooo mooooo, moooooo moooooooo, mooo mo mo moooo mo

temporary an effect on Ahab. But if these secret golden keys did seem
moooooooo mo mooooo mo Mooo. Moo mo moooo mooooo mooooo mooo moo mooo

to open in him his own secret golden treasuries, yet did his breath upon
mo mooo mo moo moo moo mooooo mooooo mooooooooo, moo moo moo mooooo mooo

them prove but tarnishing.
mooo moooo moo mooooooooo.




Oh, grassy glades! oh, ever vernal endless landscapes in the soul; in
Mo, mooooo mooooo! mo, mooo mooooo moooooo mooooooooo mo moo mooo; mo

ye,--though long parched by the dead drought of the earthy life,--in ye,
mo,--mooooo mooo moooooo mo moo mooo moooooo mo moo mooooo mooo,--mo mo,

men yet may roll, like young horses in new morning clover; and for some
moo moo moo mooo, mooo moooo mooooo mo moo moooooo mooooo; moo moo mooo

few fleeting moments, feel the cool dew of the life immortal on them.
moo mooooooo moooooo, mooo moo mooo moo mo moo mooo mooooooo mo mooo.

Would to God these blessed calms would last. But the mingled, mingling
Moooo mo Moo moooo moooooo moooo moooo mooo. Moo moo moooooo, mooooooo

threads of life are woven by warp and woof: calms crossed by storms, a
moooooo mo mooo moo moooo mo mooo moo mooo: moooo moooooo mo mooooo, m

storm for every calm. There is no steady unretracing progress in this
moooo moo moooo mooo. Moooo mo mo mooooo moooooooooo mooooooo mo mooo

life; we do not advance through fixed gradations, and at the last one
mooo; mo mo moo moooooo moooooo moooo mooooooooo, moo mo moo mooo moo

pause:--through infancy's unconscious spell, boyhood's thoughtless
moooo:--moooooo moooooo'm moooooooooo moooo, moooooo'm moooooooooo

faith, adolescence' doubt (the common doom), then scepticism, then
moooo, moooooooooo' moooo (moo mooooo mooo), mooo mooooooooo, mooo

disbelief, resting at last in manhood's pondering repose of If. But once
moooooooo, moooooo mo mooo mo moooooo'm moooooooo mooooo mo Mo. Moo mooo

gone through, we trace the round again; and are infants, boys, and men,
mooo moooooo, mo moooo moo moooo moooo; moo moo moooooo, mooo, moo moo,

and Ifs eternally. Where lies the final harbor, whence we unmoor no
moo Moo moooooooo. Moooo mooo moo moooo mooooo, mooooo mo mooooo mo

more? In what rapt ether sails the world, of which the weariest will
mooo? Mo mooo mooo moooo moooo moo moooo, mo moooo moo mooooooo mooo

never weary? Where is the foundling's father hidden? Our souls are like
moooo moooo? Moooo mo moo moooooooo'm mooooo mooooo? Moo moooo moo mooo

those orphans whose unwedded mothers die in bearing them: the secret of
moooo moooooo moooo mooooooo moooooo moo mo moooooo mooo: moo mooooo mo

our paternity lies in their grave, and we must there to learn it.
moo moooooooo mooo mo moooo moooo, moo mo mooo moooo mo moooo mo.




And that same day, too, gazing far down from his boat's side into that
Moo mooo mooo moo, moo, mooooo moo mooo mooo moo mooo'm mooo mooo mooo

same golden sea, Starbuck lowly murmured:--
mooo mooooo moo, Mooooooo moooo mooooooo:--




"Loveliness unfathomable, as ever lover saw in his young bride's
"Mooooooooo mooooooooooo, mo mooo moooo moo mo moo moooo moooo'm

eye!--Tell me not of thy teeth-tiered sharks, and thy kidnapping
moo!--Mooo mo moo mo moo moooo-mooooo mooooo, moo moo mooooooooo

cannibal ways. Let faith oust fact; let fancy oust memory; I look deep
mooooooo mooo. Moo moooo mooo mooo; moo moooo mooo mooooo; M mooo mooo

down and do believe."
mooo moo mo moooooo."




And Stubb, fish-like, with sparkling scales, leaped up in that same
Moo Moooo, mooo-mooo, mooo moooooooo mooooo, mooooo mo mo mooo mooo

golden light:--
mooooo moooo:--




"I am Stubb, and Stubb has his history; but here Stubb takes oaths that
"M mo Moooo, moo Moooo moo moo moooooo; moo mooo Moooo moooo moooo mooo

he has always been jolly!"
mo moo mooooo mooo moooo!"










CHAPTER 115. The Pequod Meets The Bachelor.
MOOOOOO moo. Moo Mooooo Moooo Moo Mooooooo.







And jolly enough were the sights and the sounds that came bearing down
Moo moooo mooooo mooo moo mooooo moo moo mooooo mooo mooo moooooo mooo

before the wind, some few weeks after Ahab's harpoon had been welded.
mooooo moo mooo, mooo moo moooo moooo Mooo'm moooooo moo mooo mooooo.




It was a Nantucket ship, the Bachelor, which had just wedged in her
Mo moo m Moooooooo mooo, moo Mooooooo, moooo moo mooo mooooo mo moo

last cask of oil, and bolted down her bursting hatches; and now, in glad
mooo mooo mo moo, moo mooooo mooo moo mooooooo moooooo; moo moo, mo mooo

holiday apparel, was joyously, though somewhat vain-gloriously, sailing
moooooo moooooo, moo mooooooo, mooooo mooooooo mooo-mooooooooo, moooooo

round among the widely-separated ships on the ground, previous to
moooo moooo moo mooooo-moooooooo moooo mo moo mooooo, mooooooo mo

pointing her prow for home.
mooooooo moo mooo moo mooo.




The three men at her mast-head wore long streamers of narrow red bunting
Moo moooo moo mo moo mooo-mooo mooo mooo moooooooo mo mooooo moo moooooo

at their hats; from the stern, a whale-boat was suspended, bottom down;
mo moooo mooo; mooo moo moooo, m moooo-mooo moo moooooooo, mooooo mooo;

and hanging captive from the bowsprit was seen the long lower jaw of the
moo moooooo moooooo mooo moo mooooooo moo mooo moo mooo moooo moo mo moo

last whale they had slain. Signals, ensigns, and jacks of all colours
mooo moooo mooo moo moooo. Moooooo, moooooo, moo moooo mo moo moooooo

were flying from her rigging, on every side. Sideways lashed in each of
mooo mooooo mooo moo moooooo, mo moooo mooo. Mooooooo mooooo mo mooo mo

her three basketed tops were two barrels of sperm; above which, in her
moo moooo mooooooo mooo mooo moo moooooo mo moooo; moooo moooo, mo moo

top-mast cross-trees, you saw slender breakers of the same precious
moo-mooo moooo-moooo, moo moo moooooo mooooooo mo moo mooo mooooooo

fluid; and nailed to her main truck was a brazen lamp.
moooo; moo mooooo mo moo mooo moooo moo m mooooo mooo.




As was afterwards learned, the Bachelor had met with the most surprising
Mo moo mooooooooo moooooo, moo Mooooooo moo moo mooo moo mooo mooooooooo

success; all the more wonderful, for that while cruising in the same
moooooo; moo moo mooo moooooooo, moo mooo moooo mooooooo mo moo mooo

seas numerous other vessels had gone entire months without securing a
mooo mooooooo moooo moooooo moo mooo mooooo mooooo moooooo mooooooo m

single fish. Not only had barrels of beef and bread been given away to
mooooo mooo. Moo mooo moo moooooo mo mooo moo moooo mooo moooo mooo mo

make room for the far more valuable sperm, but additional supplemental
mooo mooo moo moo moo mooo mooooooo moooo, moo mooooooooo mooooooooooo

casks had been bartered for, from the ships she had met; and these were
moooo moo mooo mooooooo moo, mooo moo moooo moo moo moo; moo moooo mooo

stowed along the deck, and in the captain's and officers' state-rooms.
mooooo moooo moo mooo, moo mo moo moooooo'm moo mooooooo' moooo-moooo.

Even the cabin table itself had been knocked into kindling-wood; and the
Mooo moo moooo moooo mooooo moo mooo moooooo mooo mooooooo-mooo; moo moo

cabin mess dined off the broad head of an oil-butt, lashed down to the
moooo mooo moooo moo moo moooo mooo mo mo moo-mooo, mooooo mooo mo moo

floor for a centrepiece. In the forecastle, the sailors had actually
moooo moo m moooooooooo. Mo moo mooooooooo, moo moooooo moo mooooooo

caulked and pitched their chests, and filled them; it was humorously
moooooo moo moooooo moooo mooooo, moo mooooo mooo; mo moo mooooooooo

added, that the cook had clapped a head on his largest boiler, and
moooo, mooo moo mooo moo moooooo m mooo mo moo moooooo mooooo, moo

filled it; that the steward had plugged his spare coffee-pot and filled
mooooo mo; mooo moo moooooo moo moooooo moo moooo mooooo-moo moo mooooo

it; that the harpooneers had headed the sockets of their irons and
mo; mooo moo moooooooooo moo mooooo moo moooooo mo moooo moooo moo

filled them; that indeed everything was filled with sperm, except the
mooooo mooo; mooo mooooo mooooooooo moo mooooo mooo moooo, mooooo moo

captain's pantaloons pockets, and those he reserved to thrust his hands
moooooo'm mooooooooo moooooo, moo moooo mo mooooooo mo mooooo moo moooo

into, in self-complacent testimony of his entire satisfaction.
mooo, mo mooo-mooooooooo moooooooo mo moo mooooo mooooooooooo.




As this glad ship of good luck bore down upon the moody Pequod, the
Mo mooo mooo mooo mo mooo mooo mooo mooo mooo moo moooo Mooooo, moo

barbarian sound of enormous drums came from her forecastle; and drawing
moooooooo moooo mo mooooooo moooo mooo mooo moo mooooooooo; moo moooooo

still nearer, a crowd of her men were seen standing round her huge
moooo mooooo, m moooo mo moo moo mooo mooo mooooooo moooo moo mooo

try-pots, which, covered with the parchment-like POKE or stomach skin of
moo-mooo, moooo, moooooo mooo moo moooooooo-mooo MOOO mo moooooo mooo mo

the black fish, gave forth a loud roar to every stroke of the clenched
moo moooo mooo, mooo moooo m mooo mooo mo moooo mooooo mo moo mooooooo

hands of the crew. On the quarter-deck, the mates and harpooneers were
moooo mo moo mooo. Mo moo moooooo-mooo, moo moooo moo moooooooooo mooo

dancing with the olive-hued girls who had eloped with them from the
moooooo mooo moo moooo-mooo moooo moo moo mooooo mooo mooo mooo moo

Polynesian Isles; while suspended in an ornamented boat, firmly secured
Mooooooooo Moooo; moooo moooooooo mo mo mooooooooo mooo, mooooo moooooo

aloft between the foremast and mainmast, three Long Island negroes, with
moooo moooooo moo mooooooo moo mooooooo, moooo Mooo Mooooo moooooo, mooo

glittering fiddle-bows of whale ivory, were presiding over the hilarious
mooooooooo mooooo-mooo mo moooo moooo, mooo moooooooo mooo moo moooooooo

jig. Meanwhile, others of the ship's company were tumultuously busy at
moo. Moooooooo, mooooo mo moo mooo'm moooooo mooo mooooooooooo mooo mo

the masonry of the try-works, from which the huge pots had been
moo moooooo mo moo moo-moooo, mooo moooo moo mooo mooo moo mooo

removed. You would have almost thought they were pulling down the cursed
moooooo. Moo moooo mooo mooooo moooooo mooo mooo moooooo mooo moo mooooo

Bastille, such wild cries they raised, as the now useless brick and
Mooooooo, mooo mooo moooo mooo mooooo, mo moo moo moooooo moooo moo

mortar were being hurled into the sea.
mooooo mooo moooo mooooo mooo moo moo.




Lord and master over all this scene, the captain stood erect on the
Mooo moo mooooo mooo moo mooo moooo, moo moooooo moooo moooo mo moo

ship's elevated quarter-deck, so that the whole rejoicing drama was
mooo'm mooooooo moooooo-mooo, mo mooo moo moooo moooooooo moooo moo

full before him, and seemed merely contrived for his own individual
mooo mooooo moo, moo mooooo mooooo moooooooo moo moo moo mooooooooo

diversion.
moooooooo.




And Ahab, he too was standing on his quarter-deck, shaggy and black,
Moo Mooo, mo moo moo mooooooo mo moo moooooo-mooo, mooooo moo moooo,

with a stubborn gloom; and as the two ships crossed each other's
mooo m mooooooo moooo; moo mo moo moo moooo moooooo mooo moooo'm

wakes--one all jubilations for things passed, the other all forebodings
moooo--moo moo moooooooooo moo mooooo mooooo, moo moooo moo moooooooooo

as to things to come--their two captains in themselves impersonated the
mo mo mooooo mo mooo--moooo moo mooooooo mo mooooooooo mooooooooooo moo

whole striking contrast of the scene.
moooo mooooooo mooooooo mo moo moooo.




"Come aboard, come aboard!" cried the gay Bachelor's commander, lifting
"Mooo mooooo, mooo mooooo!" moooo moo moo Mooooooo'm moooooooo, moooooo

a glass and a bottle in the air.
m moooo moo m mooooo mo moo moo.




"Hast seen the White Whale?" gritted Ahab in reply.
"Mooo mooo moo Moooo Moooo?" moooooo Mooo mo moooo.




"No; only heard of him; but don't believe in him at all," said the other
"Mo; mooo moooo mo moo; moo moo'm moooooo mo moo mo moo," mooo moo moooo

good-humoredly. "Come aboard!"
mooo-moooooooo. "Mooo mooooo!"




"Thou art too damned jolly. Sail on. Hast lost any men?"
"Mooo moo moo mooooo moooo. Mooo mo. Mooo mooo moo moo?"




"Not enough to speak of--two islanders, that's all;--but come aboard,
"Moo mooooo mo moooo mo--moo moooooooo, mooo'm moo;--moo mooo mooooo,

old hearty, come along. I'll soon take that black from your brow. Come
moo mooooo, mooo moooo. M'mo mooo mooo mooo moooo mooo mooo mooo. Mooo

along, will ye (merry's the play); a full ship and homeward-bound."
moooo, mooo mo (moooo'm moo mooo); m mooo mooo moo mooooooo-moooo."




"How wondrous familiar is a fool!" muttered Ahab; then aloud, "Thou art
"Moo mooooooo mooooooo mo m mooo!" mooooooo Mooo; mooo moooo, "Mooo moo

a full ship and homeward bound, thou sayst; well, then, call me an empty
m mooo mooo moo mooooooo moooo, mooo moooo; mooo, mooo, mooo mo mo moooo

ship, and outward-bound. So go thy ways, and I will mine. Forward there!
mooo, moo moooooo-moooo. Mo mo moo mooo, moo M mooo mooo. Moooooo moooo!

Set all sail, and keep her to the wind!"
Moo moo mooo, moo mooo moo mo moo mooo!"




And thus, while the one ship went cheerily before the breeze, the other
Moo mooo, moooo moo moo mooo mooo mooooooo mooooo moo mooooo, moo moooo

stubbornly fought against it; and so the two vessels parted; the crew
mooooooooo mooooo moooooo mo; moo mo moo moo moooooo mooooo; moo mooo

of the Pequod looking with grave, lingering glances towards the receding
mo moo Mooooo moooooo mooo moooo, moooooooo moooooo moooooo moo mooooooo

Bachelor; but the Bachelor's men never heeding their gaze for the lively
Mooooooo; moo moo Mooooooo'm moo moooo moooooo moooo mooo moo moo mooooo

revelry they were in. And as Ahab, leaning over the taffrail, eyed the
moooooo mooo mooo mo. Moo mo Mooo, moooooo mooo moo mooooooo, mooo moo

homewardbound craft, he took from his pocket a small vial of sand, and
moooooooooooo moooo, mo mooo mooo moo mooooo m moooo mooo mo mooo, moo

then looking from the ship to the vial, seemed thereby bringing two
mooo moooooo mooo moo mooo mo moo mooo, mooooo moooooo mooooooo moo

remote associations together, for that vial was filled with Nantucket
mooooo mooooooooooo mooooooo, moo mooo mooo moo mooooo mooo Moooooooo

soundings.
moooooooo.










CHAPTER 116. The Dying Whale.
MOOOOOO moo. Moo Moooo Moooo.







Not seldom in this life, when, on the right side, fortune's favourites
Moo mooooo mo mooo mooo, mooo, mo moo moooo mooo, moooooo'm mooooooooo

sail close by us, we, though all adroop before, catch somewhat of the
mooo moooo mo mo, mo, mooooo moo mooooo mooooo, moooo mooooooo mo moo

rushing breeze, and joyfully feel our bagging sails fill out. So seemed
moooooo mooooo, moo mooooooo mooo moo moooooo moooo mooo moo. Mo mooooo

it with the Pequod. For next day after encountering the gay Bachelor,
mo mooo moo Mooooo. Moo mooo moo moooo mooooooooooo moo moo Mooooooo,

whales were seen and four were slain; and one of them by Ahab.
mooooo mooo mooo moo mooo mooo moooo; moo moo mo mooo mo Mooo.




It was far down the afternoon; and when all the spearings of the crimson
Mo moo moo mooo moo moooooooo; moo mooo moo moo moooooooo mo moo moooooo

fight were done: and floating in the lovely sunset sea and sky, sun
moooo mooo mooo: moo mooooooo mo moo mooooo mooooo moo moo moo, moo

and whale both stilly died together; then, such a sweetness and such
moo moooo mooo mooooo mooo mooooooo; mooo, mooo m moooooooo moo mooo

plaintiveness, such inwreathing orisons curled up in that rosy air, that
moooooooooooo, mooo moooooooooo moooooo mooooo mo mo mooo mooo moo, mooo

it almost seemed as if far over from the deep green convent valleys of
mo mooooo mooooo mo mo moo mooo mooo moo mooo moooo moooooo moooooo mo

the Manilla isles, the Spanish land-breeze, wantonly turned sailor, had
moo Moooooo moooo, moo Moooooo mooo-mooooo, mooooooo mooooo mooooo, moo

gone to sea, freighted with these vesper hymns.
mooo mo moo, moooooooo mooo moooo mooooo moooo.




Soothed again, but only soothed to deeper gloom, Ahab, who had sterned
Moooooo moooo, moo mooo moooooo mo mooooo moooo, Mooo, moo moo moooooo

off from the whale, sat intently watching his final wanings from the now
moo mooo moo moooo, moo mooooooo mooooooo moo moooo moooooo mooo moo moo

tranquil boat. For that strange spectacle observable in all sperm whales
mooooooo mooo. Moo mooo moooooo moooooooo mooooooooo mo moo moooo mooooo

dying--the turning sunwards of the head, and so expiring--that strange
moooo--moo moooooo mooooooo mo moo mooo, moo mo mooooooo--mooo moooooo

spectacle, beheld of such a placid evening, somehow to Ahab conveyed a
moooooooo, mooooo mo mooo m mooooo moooooo, moooooo mo Mooo mooooooo m

wondrousness unknown before.
mooooooooooo moooooo mooooo.




"He turns and turns him to it,--how slowly, but how steadfastly, his
"Mo moooo moo moooo moo mo mo,--moo mooooo, moo moo moooooooooo, moo

homage-rendering and invoking brow, with his last dying motions. He too
mooooo-moooooooo moo mooooooo mooo, mooo moo mooo moooo moooooo. Mo moo

worships fire; most faithful, broad, baronial vassal of the sun!--Oh
mooooooo mooo; mooo mooooooo, moooo, mooooooo mooooo mo moo moo!--Mo

that these too-favouring eyes should see these too-favouring sights.
mooo moooo moo-moooooooo mooo mooooo moo moooo moo-moooooooo mooooo.

Look! here, far water-locked; beyond all hum of human weal or woe;
Mooo! mooo, moo moooo-mooooo; mooooo moo moo mo moooo mooo mo moo;

in these most candid and impartial seas; where to traditions no rocks
mo moooo mooo mooooo moo moooooooo mooo; moooo mo mooooooooo mo moooo

furnish tablets; where for long Chinese ages, the billows have still
moooooo moooooo; moooo moo mooo Moooooo mooo, moo moooooo mooo moooo

rolled on speechless and unspoken to, as stars that shine upon the
mooooo mo mooooooooo moo mooooooo mo, mo moooo mooo moooo mooo moo

Niger's unknown source; here, too, life dies sunwards full of faith; but
Moooo'm moooooo mooooo; mooo, moo, mooo mooo mooooooo mooo mo moooo; moo

see! no sooner dead, than death whirls round the corpse, and it heads
moo! mo mooooo mooo, mooo moooo mooooo moooo moo mooooo, moo mo moooo

some other way.
mooo moooo moo.




"Oh, thou dark Hindoo half of nature, who of drowned bones hast builded
"Mo, mooo mooo Mooooo mooo mo mooooo, moo mo moooooo moooo mooo moooooo

thy separate throne somewhere in the heart of these unverdured seas;
moo mooooooo mooooo moooooooo mo moo moooo mo moooo mooooooooo mooo;

thou art an infidel, thou queen, and too truly speakest to me in the
mooo moo mo moooooo, mooo moooo, moo moo moooo mooooooo mo mo mo moo

wide-slaughtering Typhoon, and the hushed burial of its after calm. Nor
mooo-mooooooooooo Moooooo, moo moo mooooo mooooo mo moo moooo mooo. Moo

has this thy whale sunwards turned his dying head, and then gone round
moo mooo moo moooo mooooooo mooooo moo moooo mooo, moo mooo mooo moooo

again, without a lesson to me.
moooo, moooooo m mooooo mo mo.




"Oh, trebly hooped and welded hip of power! Oh, high aspiring, rainbowed
"Mo, mooooo mooooo moo mooooo moo mo moooo! Mo, mooo mooooooo, moooooooo

jet!--that one strivest, this one jettest all in vain! In vain, oh
moo!--mooo moo mooooooo, mooo moo moooooo moo mo mooo! Mo mooo, mo

whale, dost thou seek intercedings with yon all-quickening sun, that
moooo, mooo mooo mooo mooooooooooo mooo moo moo-mooooooooo moo, mooo

only calls forth life, but gives it not again. Yet dost thou, darker
mooo moooo moooo mooo, moo moooo mo moo moooo. Moo mooo mooo, mooooo

half, rock me with a prouder, if a darker faith. All thy unnamable
mooo, mooo mo mooo m moooooo, mo m mooooo moooo. Moo moo moooooooo

imminglings float beneath me here; I am buoyed by breaths of once living
moooooooooo moooo moooooo mo mooo; M mo mooooo mo moooooo mo mooo mooooo

things, exhaled as air, but water now.
mooooo, moooooo mo moo, moo moooo moo.




"Then hail, for ever hail, O sea, in whose eternal tossings the wild
"Mooo mooo, moo mooo mooo, M moo, mo moooo moooooo mooooooo moo mooo

fowl finds his only rest. Born of earth, yet suckled by the sea; though
mooo moooo moo mooo mooo. Mooo mo moooo, moo moooooo mo moo moo; mooooo

hill and valley mothered me, ye billows are my foster-brothers!"
mooo moo mooooo mooooooo mo, mo moooooo moo mo mooooo-mooooooo!"










CHAPTER 117. The Whale Watch.
MOOOOOO moo. Moo Moooo Moooo.







The four whales slain that evening had died wide apart; one, far to
Moo mooo mooooo moooo mooo moooooo moo mooo mooo moooo; moo, moo mo

windward; one, less distant, to leeward; one ahead; one astern. These
mooooooo; moo, mooo moooooo, mo moooooo; moo moooo; moo mooooo. Moooo

last three were brought alongside ere nightfall; but the windward one
mooo moooo mooo moooooo moooooooo moo moooooooo; moo moo mooooooo moo

could not be reached till morning; and the boat that had killed it lay
moooo moo mo moooooo mooo moooooo; moo moo mooo mooo moo mooooo mo moo

by its side all night; and that boat was Ahab's.
mo moo mooo moo moooo; moo mooo mooo moo Mooo'm.




The waif-pole was thrust upright into the dead whale's spout-hole; and
Moo mooo-mooo moo mooooo moooooo mooo moo mooo moooo'm moooo-mooo; moo

the lantern hanging from its top, cast a troubled flickering glare
moo moooooo moooooo mooo moo moo, mooo m mooooooo mooooooooo moooo

upon the black, glossy back, and far out upon the midnight waves, which
mooo moo moooo, mooooo mooo, moo moo moo mooo moo mooooooo moooo, moooo

gently chafed the whale's broad flank, like soft surf upon a beach.
mooooo mooooo moo moooo'm moooo moooo, mooo mooo mooo mooo m moooo.




Ahab and all his boat's crew seemed asleep but the Parsee; who crouching
Mooo moo moo moo mooo'm mooo mooooo mooooo moo moo Mooooo; moo moooooooo

in the bow, sat watching the sharks, that spectrally played round the
mo moo moo, moo mooooooo moo mooooo, mooo mooooooooo mooooo moooo moo

whale, and tapped the light cedar planks with their tails. A sound
moooo, moo mooooo moo moooo moooo mooooo mooo moooo moooo. M moooo

like the moaning in squadrons over Asphaltites of unforgiven ghosts of
mooo moo moooooo mo moooooooo mooo Moooooooooo mo mooooooooo mooooo mo

Gomorrah, ran shuddering through the air.
Mooooooo, moo mooooooooo moooooo moo moo.




Started from his slumbers, Ahab, face to face, saw the Parsee; and
Moooooo mooo moo mooooooo, Mooo, mooo mo mooo, moo moo Mooooo; moo

hooped round by the gloom of the night they seemed the last men in a
mooooo moooo mo moo moooo mo moo moooo mooo mooooo moo mooo moo mo m

flooded world. "I have dreamed it again," said he.
moooooo moooo. "M mooo moooooo mo moooo," mooo mo.




"Of the hearses? Have I not said, old man, that neither hearse nor
"Mo moo moooooo? Mooo M moo mooo, moo moo, mooo moooooo mooooo moo

coffin can be thine?"
mooooo moo mo moooo?"




"And who are hearsed that die on the sea?"
"Moo moo moo moooooo mooo moo mo moo moo?"




"But I said, old man, that ere thou couldst die on this voyage, two
"Moo M mooo, moo moo, mooo moo mooo moooooo moo mo mooo mooooo, moo

hearses must verily be seen by thee on the sea; the first not made by
moooooo mooo mooooo mo mooo mo mooo mo moo moo; moo moooo moo mooo mo

mortal hands; and the visible wood of the last one must be grown in
mooooo moooo; moo moo moooooo mooo mo moo mooo moo mooo mo moooo mo

America."
Moooooo."




"Aye, aye! a strange sight that, Parsee:--a hearse and its plumes
"Moo, moo! m moooooo moooo mooo, Mooooo:--m mooooo moo moo mooooo

floating over the ocean with the waves for the pall-bearers. Ha! Such a
mooooooo mooo moo moooo mooo moo moooo moo moo mooo-moooooo. Mo! Mooo m

sight we shall not soon see."
moooo mo moooo moo mooo moo."




"Believe it or not, thou canst not die till it be seen, old man."
"Moooooo mo mo moo, mooo moooo moo moo mooo mo mo mooo, moo moo."




"And what was that saying about thyself?"
"Moo mooo moo mooo mooooo moooo moooooo?"




"Though it come to the last, I shall still go before thee thy pilot."
"Mooooo mo mooo mo moo mooo, M moooo moooo mo mooooo mooo moo moooo."




"And when thou art so gone before--if that ever befall--then ere I can
"Moo mooo mooo moo mo mooo mooooo--mo mooo mooo mooooo--mooo moo M moo

follow, thou must still appear to me, to pilot me still?--Was it not
mooooo, mooo mooo moooo mooooo mo mo, mo moooo mo moooo?--Moo mo moo

so? Well, then, did I believe all ye say, oh my pilot! I have here two
mo? Mooo, mooo, moo M moooooo moo mo moo, mo mo moooo! M mooo mooo moo

pledges that I shall yet slay Moby Dick and survive it."
moooooo mooo M moooo moo mooo Mooo Mooo moo moooooo mo."




"Take another pledge, old man," said the Parsee, as his eyes lighted up
"Mooo moooooo mooooo, moo moo," mooo moo Mooooo, mo moo mooo moooooo mo

like fire-flies in the gloom--"Hemp only can kill thee."
mooo mooo-moooo mo moo moooo--"Mooo mooo moo mooo mooo."




"The gallows, ye mean.--I am immortal then, on land and on sea," cried
"Moo moooooo, mo mooo.--M mo mooooooo mooo, mo mooo moo mo moo," moooo

Ahab, with a laugh of derision;--"Immortal on land and on sea!"
Mooo, mooo m moooo mo mooooooo;--"Mooooooo mo mooo moo mo moo!"




Both were silent again, as one man. The grey dawn came on, and the
Mooo mooo mooooo moooo, mo moo moo. Moo mooo mooo mooo mo, moo moo

slumbering crew arose from the boat's bottom, and ere noon the dead
mooooooooo mooo moooo mooo moo mooo'm mooooo, moo moo mooo moo mooo

whale was brought to the ship.
moooo moo moooooo mo moo mooo.










CHAPTER 118. The Quadrant.
MOOOOOO moo. Moo Mooooooo.







The season for the Line at length drew near; and every day when Ahab,
Moo mooooo moo moo Mooo mo mooooo mooo mooo; moo moooo moo mooo Mooo,

coming from his cabin, cast his eyes aloft, the vigilant helmsman would
mooooo mooo moo moooo, mooo moo mooo moooo, moo mooooooo mooooooo moooo

ostentatiously handle his spokes, and the eager mariners quickly run to
mooooooooooooo mooooo moo mooooo, moo moo moooo mooooooo moooooo moo mo

the braces, and would stand there with all their eyes centrally fixed
moo mooooo, moo moooo moooo moooo mooo moo moooo mooo moooooooo moooo

on the nailed doubloon; impatient for the order to point the ship's
mo moo mooooo mooooooo; moooooooo moo moo moooo mo moooo moo mooo'm

prow for the equator. In good time the order came. It was hard upon high
mooo moo moo moooooo. Mo mooo mooo moo moooo mooo. Mo moo mooo mooo mooo

noon; and Ahab, seated in the bows of his high-hoisted boat, was
mooo; moo Mooo, mooooo mo moo mooo mo moo mooo-moooooo mooo, moo

about taking his wonted daily observation of the sun to determine his
moooo mooooo moo mooooo moooo moooooooooo mo moo moo mo moooooooo moo

latitude.
mooooooo.




Now, in that Japanese sea, the days in summer are as freshets of
Moo, mo mooo Mooooooo moo, moo mooo mo mooooo moo mo mooooooo mo

effulgences. That unblinkingly vivid Japanese sun seems the blazing
moooooooooo. Mooo mooooooooooo moooo Mooooooo moo moooo moo moooooo

focus of the glassy ocean's immeasurable burning-glass. The sky looks
moooo mo moo mooooo moooo'm mooooooooooo moooooo-moooo. Moo moo moooo

lacquered; clouds there are none; the horizon floats; and this nakedness
moooooooo; mooooo moooo moo mooo; moo moooooo mooooo; moo mooo moooooooo

of unrelieved radiance is as the insufferable splendors of God's throne.
mo mooooooooo mooooooo mo mo moo mooooooooooo moooooooo mo Moo'm mooooo.

Well that Ahab's quadrant was furnished with coloured glasses, through
Mooo mooo Mooo'm mooooooo moo moooooooo mooo mooooooo moooooo, moooooo

which to take sight of that solar fire. So, swinging his seated form
moooo mo mooo moooo mo mooo moooo mooo. Mo, mooooooo moo mooooo mooo

to the roll of the ship, and with his astrological-looking instrument
mo moo mooo mo moo mooo, moo mooo moo mooooooooooo-moooooo mooooooooo

placed to his eye, he remained in that posture for some moments to
mooooo mo moo moo, mo mooooooo mo mooo moooooo moo mooo moooooo mo

catch the precise instant when the sun should gain its precise meridian.
moooo moo moooooo moooooo mooo moo moo mooooo mooo moo moooooo mooooooo.

Meantime while his whole attention was absorbed, the Parsee was kneeling
Mooooooo moooo moo moooo moooooooo moo mooooooo, moo Mooooo moo mooooooo

beneath him on the ship's deck, and with face thrown up like Ahab's,
moooooo moo mo moo mooo'm mooo, moo mooo mooo mooooo mo mooo Mooo'm,

was eyeing the same sun with him; only the lids of his eyes half hooded
moo mooooo moo mooo moo mooo moo; mooo moo mooo mo moo mooo mooo mooooo

their orbs, and his wild face was subdued to an earthly passionlessness.
moooo mooo, moo moo mooo mooo moo moooooo mo mo moooooo moooooooooooooo.

At length the desired observation was taken; and with his pencil upon
Mo mooooo moo moooooo moooooooooo moo moooo; moo mooo moo mooooo mooo

his ivory leg, Ahab soon calculated what his latitude must be at that
moo moooo moo, Mooo mooo mooooooooo mooo moo mooooooo mooo mo mo mooo

precise instant. Then falling into a moment's revery, he again looked up
moooooo moooooo. Mooo moooooo mooo m mooooo'm mooooo, mo moooo mooooo mo

towards the sun and murmured to himself: "Thou sea-mark! thou high and
moooooo moo moo moo mooooooo mo moooooo: "Mooo moo-mooo! mooo mooo moo

mighty Pilot! thou tellest me truly where I AM--but canst thou cast the
mooooo Moooo! mooo moooooo mo moooo moooo M MO--moo moooo mooo mooo moo

least hint where I SHALL be? Or canst thou tell where some other thing
moooo mooo moooo M MOOOO mo? Mo moooo mooo mooo moooo mooo moooo moooo

besides me is this moment living? Where is Moby Dick? This instant thou
moooooo mo mo mooo mooooo mooooo? Moooo mo Mooo Mooo? Mooo moooooo mooo

must be eyeing him. These eyes of mine look into the very eye that is
mooo mo mooooo moo. Moooo mooo mo mooo mooo mooo moo mooo moo mooo mo

even now beholding him; aye, and into the eye that is even now equally
mooo moo moooooooo moo; moo, moo mooo moo moo mooo mo mooo moo moooooo

beholding the objects on the unknown, thither side of thee, thou sun!"
moooooooo moo moooooo mo moo moooooo, moooooo mooo mo mooo, mooo moo!"




Then gazing at his quadrant, and handling, one after the other, its
Mooo mooooo mo moo mooooooo, moo mooooooo, moo moooo moo moooo, moo

numerous cabalistical contrivances, he pondered again, and muttered:
mooooooo mooooooooooo mooooooooooo, mo mooooooo moooo, moo mooooooo:

"Foolish toy! babies' plaything of haughty Admirals, and Commodores, and
"Moooooo moo! mooooo' moooooooo mo moooooo Mooooooo, moo Mooooooooo, moo

Captains; the world brags of thee, of thy cunning and might; but what
Mooooooo; moo moooo moooo mo mooo, mo moo moooooo moo moooo; moo mooo

after all canst thou do, but tell the poor, pitiful point, where thou
moooo moo moooo mooo mo, moo mooo moo mooo, moooooo moooo, moooo mooo

thyself happenest to be on this wide planet, and the hand that holds
moooooo moooooooo mo mo mo mooo mooo mooooo, moo moo mooo mooo moooo

thee: no! not one jot more! Thou canst not tell where one drop of water
mooo: mo! moo moo moo mooo! Mooo moooo moo mooo moooo moo mooo mo moooo

or one grain of sand will be to-morrow noon; and yet with thy impotence
mo moo moooo mo mooo mooo mo mo-mooooo mooo; moo moo mooo moo moooooooo

thou insultest the sun! Science! Curse thee, thou vain toy; and cursed
mooo moooooooo moo moo! Moooooo! Moooo mooo, mooo mooo moo; moo mooooo

be all the things that cast man's eyes aloft to that heaven, whose live
mo moo moo mooooo mooo mooo moo'm mooo moooo mo mooo mooooo, moooo mooo

vividness but scorches him, as these old eyes are even now scorched
moooooooo moo mooooooo moo, mo moooo moo mooo moo mooo moo mooooooo

with thy light, O sun! Level by nature to this earth's horizon are the
mooo moo moooo, M moo! Moooo mo mooooo mo mooo moooo'm moooooo moo moo

glances of man's eyes; not shot from the crown of his head, as if God
moooooo mo moo'm mooo; moo mooo mooo moo moooo mo moo mooo, mo mo Moo

had meant him to gaze on his firmament. Curse thee, thou quadrant!"
moo moooo moo mo mooo mo moo moooooooo. Moooo mooo, mooo mooooooo!"

dashing it to the deck, "no longer will I guide my earthly way by thee;
moooooo mo mo moo mooo, "mo mooooo mooo M moooo mo moooooo moo mo mooo;

the level ship's compass, and the level deadreckoning, by log and by
moo moooo mooo'm moooooo, moo moo moooo moooooooooooo, mo moo moo mo

line; THESE shall conduct me, and show me my place on the sea. Aye,"
mooo; MOOOO moooo moooooo mo, moo mooo mo mo moooo mo moo moo. Moo,"

lighting from the boat to the deck, "thus I trample on thee, thou paltry
mooooooo mooo moo mooo mo moo mooo, "mooo M moooooo mo mooo, mooo mooooo

thing that feebly pointest on high; thus I split and destroy thee!"
moooo mooo mooooo mooooooo mo mooo; mooo M moooo moo moooooo mooo!"




As the frantic old man thus spoke and thus trampled with his live
Mo moo moooooo moo moo mooo moooo moo mooo mooooooo mooo moo mooo

and dead feet, a sneering triumph that seemed meant for Ahab, and a
moo mooo mooo, m mooooooo moooooo mooo mooooo moooo moo Mooo, moo m

fatalistic despair that seemed meant for himself--these passed over
mooooooooo moooooo mooo mooooo moooo moo moooooo--moooo mooooo mooo

the mute, motionless Parsee's face. Unobserved he rose and glided away;
moo mooo, mooooooooo Mooooo'm mooo. Mooooooooo mo mooo moo mooooo mooo;

while, awestruck by the aspect of their commander, the seamen clustered
moooo, moooooooo mo moo mooooo mo moooo moooooooo, moo mooooo moooooooo

together on the forecastle, till Ahab, troubledly pacing the deck,
mooooooo mo moo mooooooooo, mooo Mooo, mooooooooo mooooo moo mooo,

shouted out--"To the braces! Up helm!--square in!"
moooooo moo--"Mo moo mooooo! Mo mooo!--mooooo mo!"




In an instant the yards swung round; and as the ship half-wheeled upon
Mo mo moooooo moo moooo moooo moooo; moo mo moo mooo mooo-moooooo mooo

her heel, her three firm-seated graceful masts erectly poised upon
moo mooo, moo moooo mooo-mooooo mooooooo moooo moooooo mooooo mooo

her long, ribbed hull, seemed as the three Horatii pirouetting on one
moo mooo, mooooo mooo, mooooo mo moo moooo Moooooo moooooooooo mo moo

sufficient steed.
mooooooooo moooo.




Standing between the knight-heads, Starbuck watched the Pequod's
Mooooooo moooooo moo mooooo-moooo, Mooooooo moooooo moo Mooooo'm

tumultuous way, and Ahab's also, as he went lurching along the deck.
mooooooooo moo, moo Mooo'm mooo, mo mo mooo mooooooo moooo moo mooo.




"I have sat before the dense coal fire and watched it all aglow, full of
"M mooo moo mooooo moo moooo mooo mooo moo moooooo mo moo moooo, mooo mo

its tormented flaming life; and I have seen it wane at last, down, down,
moo moooooooo moooooo mooo; moo M mooo mooo mo mooo mo mooo, mooo, mooo,

to dumbest dust. Old man of oceans! of all this fiery life of thine,
mo moooooo mooo. Moo moo mo mooooo! mo moo mooo moooo mooo mo moooo,

what will at length remain but one little heap of ashes!"
mooo mooo mo mooooo mooooo moo moo mooooo mooo mo moooo!"




"Aye," cried Stubb, "but sea-coal ashes--mind ye that, Mr.
"Moo," moooo Moooo, "moo moo-mooo moooo--mooo mo mooo, Mo.

Starbuck--sea-coal, not your common charcoal. Well, well; I heard Ahab
Mooooooo--moo-mooo, moo mooo mooooo mooooooo. Mooo, mooo; M moooo Mooo

mutter, 'Here some one thrusts these cards into these old hands of mine;
mooooo, 'Mooo mooo moo moooooo moooo moooo mooo moooo moo moooo mo mooo;

swears that I must play them, and no others.' And damn me, Ahab, but
mooooo mooo M mooo mooo mooo, moo mo mooooo.' Moo mooo mo, Mooo, moo

thou actest right; live in the game, and die in it!"
mooo mooooo moooo; mooo mo moo mooo, moo moo mo mo!"










CHAPTER 119. The Candles.
MOOOOOO moo. Moo Moooooo.







Warmest climes but nurse the cruellest fangs: the tiger of Bengal
Moooooo mooooo moo moooo moo moooooooo moooo: moo moooo mo Mooooo

crouches in spiced groves of ceaseless verdure. Skies the most effulgent
mooooooo mo mooooo mooooo mo moooooooo moooooo. Moooo moo mooo moooooooo

but basket the deadliest thunders: gorgeous Cuba knows tornadoes
moo mooooo moo moooooooo mooooooo: mooooooo Mooo moooo moooooooo

that never swept tame northern lands. So, too, it is, that in these
mooo moooo moooo mooo mooooooo moooo. Mo, moo, mo mo, mooo mo moooo

resplendent Japanese seas the mariner encounters the direst of all
moooooooooo Mooooooo mooo moo moooooo mooooooooo moo mooooo mo moo

storms, the Typhoon. It will sometimes burst from out that cloudless
mooooo, moo Moooooo. Mo mooo moooooooo moooo mooo moo mooo moooooooo

sky, like an exploding bomb upon a dazed and sleepy town.
moo, mooo mo moooooooo mooo mooo m moooo moo mooooo mooo.




Towards evening of that day, the Pequod was torn of her canvas, and
Moooooo moooooo mo mooo moo, moo Mooooo moo mooo mo moo mooooo, moo

bare-poled was left to fight a Typhoon which had struck her directly
mooo-moooo moo mooo mo moooo m Moooooo moooo moo mooooo moo mooooooo

ahead. When darkness came on, sky and sea roared and split with the
moooo. Mooo mooooooo mooo mo, moo moo moo mooooo moo moooo mooo moo

thunder, and blazed with the lightning, that showed the disabled masts
moooooo, moo mooooo mooo moo moooooooo, mooo mooooo moo mooooooo moooo

fluttering here and there with the rags which the first fury of the
mooooooooo mooo moo moooo mooo moo mooo moooo moo moooo mooo mo moo

tempest had left for its after sport.
moooooo moo mooo moo moo moooo moooo.




Holding by a shroud, Starbuck was standing on the quarter-deck; at every
Moooooo mo m mooooo, Mooooooo moo mooooooo mo moo moooooo-mooo; mo moooo

flash of the lightning glancing aloft, to see what additional disaster
moooo mo moo moooooooo mooooooo moooo, mo moo mooo mooooooooo mooooooo

might have befallen the intricate hamper there; while Stubb and Flask
moooo mooo mooooooo moo moooooooo mooooo moooo; moooo Moooo moo Moooo

were directing the men in the higher hoisting and firmer lashing of the
mooo moooooooo moo moo mo moo mooooo mooooooo moo mooooo moooooo mo moo

boats. But all their pains seemed naught. Though lifted to the very
moooo. Moo moo moooo moooo mooooo mooooo. Mooooo mooooo mo moo mooo

top of the cranes, the windward quarter boat (Ahab's) did not escape.
moo mo moo mooooo, moo mooooooo moooooo mooo (Mooo'm) moo moo mooooo.

A great rolling sea, dashing high up against the reeling ship's high
M moooo moooooo moo, moooooo mooo mo moooooo moo moooooo mooo'm mooo

teetering side, stove in the boat's bottom at the stern, and left it
moooooooo mooo, moooo mo moo mooo'm mooooo mo moo moooo, moo mooo mo

again, all dripping through like a sieve.
moooo, moo mooooooo moooooo mooo m moooo.




"Bad work, bad work! Mr. Starbuck," said Stubb, regarding the wreck,
"Moo mooo, moo mooo! Mo. Mooooooo," mooo Moooo, moooooooo moo moooo,

"but the sea will have its way. Stubb, for one, can't fight it. You see,
"moo moo moo mooo mooo moo moo. Moooo, moo moo, moo'm moooo mo. Moo moo,

Mr. Starbuck, a wave has such a great long start before it leaps, all
Mo. Mooooooo, m mooo moo mooo m moooo mooo moooo mooooo mo moooo, moo

round the world it runs, and then comes the spring! But as for me, all
moooo moo moooo mo mooo, moo mooo moooo moo mooooo! Moo mo moo mo, moo

the start I have to meet it, is just across the deck here. But never
moo moooo M mooo mo mooo mo, mo mooo mooooo moo mooo mooo. Moo moooo

mind; it's all in fun: so the old song says;"--(SINGS.)
mooo; mo'm moo mo moo: mo moo moo mooo mooo;"--(MOOOO.)




  Oh! jolly is the gale,
  Mo! moooo mo moo mooo,

  And a joker is the whale,
  Moo m moooo mo moo moooo,

  A' flourishin' his tail,--
  M' mooooooooo' moo mooo,--

  Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, is the Ocean, oh!
  Mooo m moooo, mooooo, mooo, moooo, mooo, mooo-mooo moo, mo moo Moooo, mo!




  The scud all a flyin',
  Moo mooo moo m moooo',

  That's his flip only foamin';
  Mooo'm moo mooo mooo mooooo';

  When he stirs in the spicin',--
  Mooo mo moooo mo moo mooooo',--

  Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, is the Ocean, oh!
  Mooo m moooo, mooooo, mooo, moooo, mooo, mooo-mooo moo, mo moo Moooo, mo!




  Thunder splits the ships,
  Moooooo mooooo moo moooo,

  But he only smacks his lips,
  Moo mo mooo mooooo moo mooo,

  A tastin' of this flip,--
  M mooooo' mo mooo mooo,--

  Such a funny, sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, is the Ocean, oh!
  Mooo m moooo, mooooo, mooo, moooo, mooo, mooo-mooo moo, mo moo Moooo, mo!







"Avast Stubb," cried Starbuck, "let the Typhoon sing, and strike his
"Moooo Moooo," moooo Mooooooo, "moo moo Moooooo mooo, moo mooooo moo

harp here in our rigging; but if thou art a brave man thou wilt hold thy
mooo mooo mo moo moooooo; moo mo mooo moo m moooo moo mooo mooo mooo moo

peace."
moooo."




"But I am not a brave man; never said I was a brave man; I am a coward;
"Moo M mo moo m moooo moo; moooo mooo M moo m moooo moo; M mo m mooooo;

and I sing to keep up my spirits. And I tell you what it is, Mr.
moo M mooo mo mooo mo mo moooooo. Moo M mooo moo mooo mo mo, Mo.

Starbuck, there's no way to stop my singing in this world but to cut my
Mooooooo, moooo'm mo moo mo mooo mo moooooo mo mooo moooo moo mo moo mo

throat. And when that's done, ten to one I sing ye the doxology for a
mooooo. Moo mooo mooo'm mooo, moo mo moo M mooo mo moo mooooooo moo m

wind-up."
mooo-mo."




"Madman! look through my eyes if thou hast none of thine own."
"Mooooo! mooo moooooo mo mooo mo mooo mooo mooo mo moooo moo."




"What! how can you see better of a dark night than anybody else, never
"Mooo! moo moo moo moo mooooo mo m mooo moooo mooo moooooo mooo, moooo

mind how foolish?"
mooo moo moooooo?"




"Here!" cried Starbuck, seizing Stubb by the shoulder, and pointing his
"Mooo!" moooo Mooooooo, moooooo Moooo mo moo mooooooo, moo mooooooo moo

hand towards the weather bow, "markest thou not that the gale comes from
mooo moooooo moo moooooo moo, "moooooo mooo moo mooo moo mooo moooo mooo

the eastward, the very course Ahab is to run for Moby Dick? the very
moo mooooooo, moo mooo mooooo Mooo mo mo moo moo Mooo Mooo? moo mooo

course he swung to this day noon? now mark his boat there; where is
mooooo mo moooo mo mooo moo mooo? moo mooo moo mooo moooo; moooo mo

that stove? In the stern-sheets, man; where he is wont to stand--his
mooo moooo? Mo moo moooo-mooooo, moo; moooo mo mo mooo mo moooo--moo

stand-point is stove, man! Now jump overboard, and sing away, if thou
moooo-moooo mo moooo, moo! Moo mooo moooooooo, moo mooo mooo, mo mooo

must!
mooo!




"I don't half understand ye: what's in the wind?"
"M moo'm mooo mooooooooo mo: mooo'm mo moo mooo?"




"Yes, yes, round the Cape of Good Hope is the shortest way to
"Moo, moo, moooo moo Mooo mo Mooo Mooo mo moo mooooooo moo mo

Nantucket," soliloquized Starbuck suddenly, heedless of Stubb's
Moooooooo," mooooooooooo Mooooooo mooooooo, mooooooo mo Moooo'm

question. "The gale that now hammers at us to stave us, we can turn it
mooooooo. "Moo mooo mooo moo moooooo mo mo mo moooo mo, mo moo mooo mo

into a fair wind that will drive us towards home. Yonder, to windward,
mooo m mooo mooo mooo mooo moooo mo moooooo mooo. Mooooo, mo mooooooo,

all is blackness of doom; but to leeward, homeward--I see it lightens up
moo mo moooooooo mo mooo; moo mo moooooo, mooooooo--M moo mo mooooooo mo

there; but not with the lightning."
moooo; moo moo mooo moo moooooooo."




At that moment in one of the intervals of profound darkness, following
Mo mooo mooooo mo moo mo moo moooooooo mo mooooooo mooooooo, moooooooo

the flashes, a voice was heard at his side; and almost at the same
moo moooooo, m moooo moo moooo mo moo mooo; moo mooooo mo moo mooo

instant a volley of thunder peals rolled overhead.
moooooo m mooooo mo moooooo moooo mooooo mooooooo.




"Who's there?"
"Moo'm moooo?"




"Old Thunder!" said Ahab, groping his way along the bulwarks to his
"Moo Moooooo!" mooo Mooo, moooooo moo moo moooo moo mooooooo mo moo

pivot-hole; but suddenly finding his path made plain to him by elbowed
moooo-mooo; moo mooooooo moooooo moo mooo mooo moooo mo moo mo moooooo

lances of fire.
mooooo mo mooo.




Now, as the lightning rod to a spire on shore is intended to carry off
Moo, mo moo moooooooo moo mo m moooo mo moooo mo mooooooo mo moooo moo

the perilous fluid into the soil; so the kindred rod which at sea some
moo mooooooo moooo mooo moo mooo; mo moo moooooo moo moooo mo moo mooo

ships carry to each mast, is intended to conduct it into the water. But
moooo moooo mo mooo mooo, mo mooooooo mo moooooo mo mooo moo moooo. Moo

as this conductor must descend to considerable depth, that its end may
mo mooo moooooooo mooo moooooo mo mooooooooooo moooo, mooo moo moo moo

avoid all contact with the hull; and as moreover, if kept constantly
moooo moo moooooo mooo moo mooo; moo mo mooooooo, mo mooo mooooooooo

towing there, it would be liable to many mishaps, besides interfering
mooooo moooo, mo moooo mo mooooo mo mooo moooooo, moooooo moooooooooo

not a little with some of the rigging, and more or less impeding the
moo m mooooo mooo mooo mo moo moooooo, moo mooo mo mooo mooooooo moo

vessel's way in the water; because of all this, the lower parts of a
mooooo'm moo mo moo moooo; moooooo mo moo mooo, moo moooo moooo mo m

ship's lightning-rods are not always overboard; but are generally made
mooo'm moooooooo-mooo moo moo mooooo moooooooo; moo moo moooooooo mooo

in long slender links, so as to be the more readily hauled up into the
mo mooo moooooo moooo, mo mo mo mo moo mooo moooooo mooooo mo mooo moo

chains outside, or thrown down into the sea, as occasion may require.
mooooo moooooo, mo mooooo mooo mooo moo moo, mo mooooooo moo moooooo.




"The rods! the rods!" cried Starbuck to the crew, suddenly admonished to
"Moo mooo! moo mooo!" moooo Mooooooo mo moo mooo, mooooooo mooooooooo mo

vigilance by the vivid lightning that had just been darting flambeaux,
moooooooo mo moo moooo moooooooo mooo moo mooo mooo moooooo moooooooo,

to light Ahab to his post. "Are they overboard? drop them over, fore and
mo moooo Mooo mo moo mooo. "Moo mooo moooooooo? mooo mooo mooo, mooo moo

aft. Quick!"
moo. Moooo!"




"Avast!" cried Ahab; "let's have fair play here, though we be the weaker
"Moooo!" moooo Mooo; "moo'm mooo mooo mooo mooo, mooooo mo mo moo mooooo

side. Yet I'll contribute to raise rods on the Himmalehs and Andes, that
mooo. Moo M'mo mooooooooo mo moooo mooo mo moo Moooooooo moo Moooo, mooo

all the world may be secured; but out on privileges! Let them be, sir."
moo moo moooo moo mo moooooo; moo moo mo mooooooooo! Moo mooo mo, moo."




"Look aloft!" cried Starbuck. "The corpusants! the corpusants!"
"Mooo moooo!" moooo Mooooooo. "Moo mooooooooo! moo mooooooooo!"




All the yard-arms were tipped with a pallid fire; and touched at each
Moo moo mooo-mooo mooo mooooo mooo m mooooo mooo; moo moooooo mo mooo

tri-pointed lightning-rod-end with three tapering white flames, each of
moo-moooooo moooooooo-moo-moo mooo moooo mooooooo moooo mooooo, mooo mo

the three tall masts was silently burning in that sulphurous air, like
moo moooo mooo moooo moo mooooooo moooooo mo mooo mooooooooo moo, mooo

three gigantic wax tapers before an altar.
moooo mooooooo moo mooooo mooooo mo moooo.




"Blast the boat! let it go!" cried Stubb at this instant, as a swashing
"Moooo moo mooo! moo mo mo!" moooo Moooo mo mooo moooooo, mo m mooooooo

sea heaved up under his own little craft, so that its gunwale violently
moo mooooo mo moooo moo moo mooooo moooo, mo mooo moo moooooo moooooooo

jammed his hand, as he was passing a lashing. "Blast it!"--but
mooooo moo mooo, mo mo moo moooooo m moooooo. "Moooo mo!"--moo

slipping backward on the deck, his uplifted eyes caught the flames; and
mooooooo mooooooo mo moo mooo, moo mooooooo mooo mooooo moo mooooo; moo

immediately shifting his tone he cried--"The corpusants have mercy on us
moooooooooo mooooooo moo mooo mo moooo--"Moo mooooooooo mooo moooo mo mo

all!"
moo!"




To sailors, oaths are household words; they will swear in the trance of
Mo moooooo, moooo moo moooooooo moooo; mooo mooo moooo mo moo mooooo mo

the calm, and in the teeth of the tempest; they will imprecate curses
moo mooo, moo mo moo moooo mo moo moooooo; mooo mooo moooooooo mooooo

from the topsail-yard-arms, when most they teeter over to a seething
mooo moo moooooo-mooo-mooo, mooo mooo mooo mooooo mooo mo m mooooooo

sea; but in all my voyagings, seldom have I heard a common oath when
moo; moo mo moo mo moooooooo, mooooo mooo M moooo m mooooo mooo mooo

God's burning finger has been laid on the ship; when His "Mene, Mene,
Moo'm moooooo mooooo moo mooo mooo mo moo mooo; mooo Moo "Mooo, Mooo,

Tekel Upharsin" has been woven into the shrouds and the cordage.
Moooo Mooooooo" moo mooo moooo mooo moo moooooo moo moo moooooo.




While this pallidness was burning aloft, few words were heard from the
Moooo mooo mooooooooo moo moooooo moooo, moo moooo mooo moooo mooo moo

enchanted crew; who in one thick cluster stood on the forecastle,
moooooooo mooo; moo mo moo moooo moooooo moooo mo moo mooooooooo,

all their eyes gleaming in that pale phosphorescence, like a far away
moo moooo mooo mooooooo mo mooo mooo moooooooooooooo, mooo m moo mooo

constellation of stars. Relieved against the ghostly light, the gigantic
moooooooooooo mo moooo. Mooooooo moooooo moo moooooo moooo, moo mooooooo

jet negro, Daggoo, loomed up to thrice his real stature, and seemed
moo moooo, Mooooo, mooooo mo mo mooooo moo mooo moooooo, moo mooooo

the black cloud from which the thunder had come. The parted mouth of
moo moooo moooo mooo moooo moo moooooo moo mooo. Moo mooooo moooo mo

Tashtego revealed his shark-white teeth, which strangely gleamed as
Mooooooo mooooooo moo moooo-moooo moooo, moooo moooooooo moooooo mo

if they too had been tipped by corpusants; while lit up by the
mo mooo moo moo mooo mooooo mo mooooooooo; moooo moo mo mo moo

preternatural light, Queequeg's tattooing burned like Satanic blue
moooooooooooo moooo, Mooooooo'm moooooooo mooooo mooo Moooooo mooo

flames on his body.
mooooo mo moo mooo.




The tableau all waned at last with the pallidness aloft; and once more
Moo moooooo moo moooo mo mooo mooo moo mooooooooo moooo; moo mooo mooo

the Pequod and every soul on her decks were wrapped in a pall. A moment
moo Mooooo moo moooo mooo mo moo moooo mooo moooooo mo m mooo. M mooooo

or two passed, when Starbuck, going forward, pushed against some one. It
mo moo mooooo, mooo Mooooooo, moooo moooooo, mooooo moooooo mooo moo. Mo

was Stubb. "What thinkest thou now, man; I heard thy cry; it was not the
moo Moooo. "Mooo mooooooo mooo moo, moo; M moooo moo moo; mo moo moo moo

same in the song."
mooo mo moo mooo."




"No, no, it wasn't; I said the corpusants have mercy on us all; and I
"Mo, mo, mo mooo'm; M mooo moo mooooooooo mooo moooo mo mo moo; moo M

hope they will, still. But do they only have mercy on long faces?--have
mooo mooo mooo, moooo. Moo mo mooo mooo mooo moooo mo mooo moooo?--mooo

they no bowels for a laugh? And look ye, Mr. Starbuck--but it's too dark
mooo mo mooooo moo m moooo? Moo mooo mo, Mo. Mooooooo--moo mo'm moo mooo

to look. Hear me, then: I take that mast-head flame we saw for a sign
mo mooo. Mooo mo, mooo: M mooo mooo mooo-mooo moooo mo moo moo m mooo

of good luck; for those masts are rooted in a hold that is going to be
mo mooo mooo; moo moooo moooo moo mooooo mo m mooo mooo mo moooo mo mo

chock a' block with sperm-oil, d'ye see; and so, all that sperm will
moooo m' moooo mooo moooo-moo, m'mo moo; moo mo, moo mooo moooo mooo

work up into the masts, like sap in a tree. Yes, our three masts will
mooo mo mooo moo moooo, mooo moo mo m mooo. Moo, moo moooo moooo mooo

yet be as three spermaceti candles--that's the good promise we saw."
moo mo mo moooo mooooooooo moooooo--mooo'm moo mooo moooooo mo moo."




At that moment Starbuck caught sight of Stubb's face slowly beginning
Mo mooo mooooo Mooooooo mooooo moooo mo Moooo'm mooo mooooo moooooooo

to glimmer into sight. Glancing upwards, he cried: "See! see!" and once
mo moooooo mooo moooo. Mooooooo moooooo, mo moooo: "Moo! moo!" moo mooo

more the high tapering flames were beheld with what seemed redoubled
mooo moo mooo mooooooo mooooo mooo mooooo mooo mooo mooooo moooooooo

supernaturalness in their pallor.
mooooooooooooooo mo moooo mooooo.




"The corpusants have mercy on us all," cried Stubb, again.
"Moo mooooooooo mooo moooo mo mo moo," moooo Moooo, moooo.




At the base of the mainmast, full beneath the doubloon and the flame,
Mo moo mooo mo moo mooooooo, mooo moooooo moo mooooooo moo moo moooo,

the Parsee was kneeling in Ahab's front, but with his head bowed away
moo Mooooo moo mooooooo mo Mooo'm moooo, moo mooo moo mooo moooo mooo

from him; while near by, from the arched and overhanging rigging, where
mooo moo; moooo mooo mo, mooo moo mooooo moo moooooooooo moooooo, moooo

they had just been engaged securing a spar, a number of the seamen,
mooo moo mooo mooo moooooo mooooooo m mooo, m mooooo mo moo mooooo,

arrested by the glare, now cohered together, and hung pendulous, like a
mooooooo mo moo moooo, moo moooooo mooooooo, moo mooo moooooooo, mooo m

knot of numbed wasps from a drooping, orchard twig. In various enchanted
mooo mo mooooo moooo mooo m mooooooo, moooooo mooo. Mo moooooo moooooooo

attitudes, like the standing, or stepping, or running skeletons in
moooooooo, mooo moo mooooooo, mo mooooooo, mo moooooo moooooooo mo

Herculaneum, others remained rooted to the deck; but all their eyes
Moooooooooo, mooooo mooooooo mooooo mo moo mooo; moo moo moooo mooo

upcast.
mooooo.




"Aye, aye, men!" cried Ahab. "Look up at it; mark it well; the white
"Moo, moo, moo!" moooo Mooo. "Mooo mo mo mo; mooo mo mooo; moo moooo

flame but lights the way to the White Whale! Hand me those mainmast
moooo moo mooooo moo moo mo moo Moooo Moooo! Mooo mo moooo mooooooo

links there; I would fain feel this pulse, and let mine beat against it;
moooo moooo; M moooo mooo mooo mooo moooo, moo moo mooo mooo moooooo mo;

blood against fire! So."
moooo moooooo mooo! Mo."




Then turning--the last link held fast in his left hand, he put his foot
Mooo moooooo--moo mooo mooo mooo mooo mo moo mooo mooo, mo moo moo mooo

upon the Parsee; and with fixed upward eye, and high-flung right arm, he
mooo moo Mooooo; moo mooo moooo mooooo moo, moo mooo-moooo moooo moo, mo

stood erect before the lofty tri-pointed trinity of flames.
moooo moooo mooooo moo moooo moo-moooooo moooooo mo mooooo.




"Oh! thou clear spirit of clear fire, whom on these seas I as Persian
"Mo! mooo moooo mooooo mo moooo mooo, mooo mo moooo mooo M mo Moooooo

once did worship, till in the sacramental act so burned by thee, that to
mooo moo moooooo, mooo mo moo moooooooooo moo mo mooooo mo mooo, mooo mo

this hour I bear the scar; I now know thee, thou clear spirit, and I now
mooo mooo M mooo moo mooo; M moo mooo mooo, mooo moooo mooooo, moo M moo

know that thy right worship is defiance. To neither love nor reverence
mooo mooo moo moooo moooooo mo mooooooo. Mo moooooo mooo moo moooooooo

wilt thou be kind; and e'en for hate thou canst but kill; and all
mooo mooo mo mooo; moo m'mo moo mooo mooo moooo moo mooo; moo moo

are killed. No fearless fool now fronts thee. I own thy speechless,
moo mooooo. Mo mooooooo mooo moo mooooo mooo. M moo moo mooooooooo,

placeless power; but to the last gasp of my earthquake life will
moooooooo moooo; moo mo moo mooo mooo mo mo mooooooooo mooo mooo

dispute its unconditional, unintegral mastery in me. In the midst of the
moooooo moo moooooooooooo, mooooooooo moooooo mo mo. Mo moo moooo mo moo

personified impersonal, a personality stands here. Though but a point at
moooooooooo mooooooooo, m moooooooooo mooooo mooo. Mooooo moo m moooo mo

best; whencesoe'er I came; wheresoe'er I go; yet while I earthly live,
mooo; moooooooo'mo M mooo; mooooooo'mo M mo; moo moooo M moooooo mooo,

the queenly personality lives in me, and feels her royal rights. But war
moo moooooo moooooooooo moooo mo mo, moo moooo moo moooo mooooo. Moo moo

is pain, and hate is woe. Come in thy lowest form of love, and I will
mo mooo, moo mooo mo moo. Mooo mo moo mooooo mooo mo mooo, moo M mooo

kneel and kiss thee; but at thy highest, come as mere supernal power;
moooo moo mooo mooo; moo mo moo moooooo, mooo mo mooo mooooooo moooo;

and though thou launchest navies of full-freighted worlds, there's that
moo mooooo mooo moooooooo mooooo mo mooo-moooooooo mooooo, moooo'm mooo

in here that still remains indifferent. Oh, thou clear spirit, of thy
mo mooo mooo moooo moooooo moooooooooo. Mo, mooo moooo mooooo, mo moo

fire thou madest me, and like a true child of fire, I breathe it back to
mooo mooo mooooo mo, moo mooo m mooo moooo mo mooo, M moooooo mo mooo mo

thee."
mooo."




[SUDDEN, REPEATED FLASHES OF LIGHTNING; THE NINE FLAMES LEAP LENGTHWISE
[MOOOOO, MOOOOOOO MOOOOOO MO MOOOOOOOO; MOO MOOO MOOOOO MOOO MOOOOOOOOO

TO THRICE THEIR PREVIOUS HEIGHT; AHAB, WITH THE REST, CLOSES HIS EYES,
MO MOOOOO MOOOO MOOOOOOO MOOOOO; MOOO, MOOO MOO MOOO, MOOOOO MOO MOOO,

HIS RIGHT HAND PRESSED HARD UPON THEM.]
MOO MOOOO MOOO MOOOOOO MOOO MOOO MOOO.]




"I own thy speechless, placeless power; said I not so? Nor was it wrung
"M moo moo mooooooooo, moooooooo moooo; mooo M moo mo? Moo moo mo moooo

from me; nor do I now drop these links. Thou canst blind; but I can then
mooo mo; moo mo M moo mooo moooo moooo. Mooo moooo moooo; moo M moo mooo

grope. Thou canst consume; but I can then be ashes. Take the homage of
moooo. Mooo moooo moooooo; moo M moo mooo mo moooo. Mooo moo mooooo mo

these poor eyes, and shutter-hands. I would not take it. The lightning
moooo mooo mooo, moo moooooo-moooo. M moooo moo mooo mo. Moo moooooooo

flashes through my skull; mine eye-balls ache and ache; my whole beaten
moooooo moooooo mo moooo; mooo moo-moooo mooo moo mooo; mo moooo mooooo

brain seems as beheaded, and rolling on some stunning ground. Oh, oh!
moooo moooo mo mooooooo, moo moooooo mo mooo mooooooo mooooo. Mo, mo!

Yet blindfold, yet will I talk to thee. Light though thou be, thou
Moo moooooooo, moo mooo M mooo mo mooo. Moooo mooooo mooo mo, mooo

leapest out of darkness; but I am darkness leaping out of light, leaping
moooooo moo mo mooooooo; moo M mo mooooooo moooooo moo mo moooo, moooooo

out of thee! The javelins cease; open eyes; see, or not? There burn the
moo mo mooo! Moo mooooooo moooo; mooo mooo; moo, mo moo? Moooo mooo moo

flames! Oh, thou magnanimous! now I do glory in my genealogy. But thou
mooooo! Mo, mooo moooooooooo! moo M mo moooo mo mo moooooooo. Moo mooo

art but my fiery father; my sweet mother, I know not. Oh, cruel! what
moo moo mo moooo mooooo; mo moooo mooooo, M mooo moo. Mo, moooo! mooo

hast thou done with her? There lies my puzzle; but thine is greater.
mooo mooo mooo mooo moo? Moooo mooo mo mooooo; moo moooo mo moooooo.

Thou knowest not how came ye, hence callest thyself unbegotten;
Mooo moooooo moo moo mooo mo, moooo moooooo moooooo mooooooooo;

certainly knowest not thy beginning, hence callest thyself unbegun. I
moooooooo moooooo moo moo moooooooo, moooo moooooo moooooo moooooo. M

know that of me, which thou knowest not of thyself, oh, thou omnipotent.
mooo mooo mo mo, moooo mooo moooooo moo mo moooooo, mo, mooo mooooooooo.

There is some unsuffusing thing beyond thee, thou clear spirit, to whom
Moooo mo mooo moooooooooo moooo mooooo mooo, mooo moooo mooooo, mo mooo

all thy eternity is but time, all thy creativeness mechanical. Through
moo moo mooooooo mo moo mooo, moo moo mooooooooooo mooooooooo. Moooooo

thee, thy flaming self, my scorched eyes do dimly see it. Oh, thou
mooo, moo moooooo mooo, mo mooooooo mooo mo moooo moo mo. Mo, mooo

foundling fire, thou hermit immemorial, thou too hast thy incommunicable
moooooooo mooo, mooo mooooo mooooooooo, mooo moo mooo moo mooooooooooooo

riddle, thy unparticipated grief. Here again with haughty agony, I read
mooooo, moo mooooooooooooo moooo. Mooo moooo mooo moooooo moooo, M mooo

my sire. Leap! leap up, and lick the sky! I leap with thee; I burn with
mo mooo. Mooo! mooo mo, moo mooo moo moo! M mooo mooo mooo; M mooo mooo

thee; would fain be welded with thee; defyingly I worship thee!"
mooo; moooo mooo mo mooooo mooo mooo; moooooooo M moooooo mooo!"




"The boat! the boat!" cried Starbuck, "look at thy boat, old man!"
"Moo mooo! moo mooo!" moooo Mooooooo, "mooo mo moo mooo, moo moo!"




Ahab's harpoon, the one forged at Perth's fire, remained firmly lashed
Mooo'm moooooo, moo moo mooooo mo Moooo'm mooo, mooooooo mooooo mooooo

in its conspicuous crotch, so that it projected beyond his whale-boat's
mo moo moooooooooo mooooo, mo mooo mo moooooooo mooooo moo moooo-mooo'm

bow; but the sea that had stove its bottom had caused the loose leather
moo; moo moo moo mooo moo moooo moo mooooo moo mooooo moo moooo moooooo

sheath to drop off; and from the keen steel barb there now came a
mooooo mo mooo moo; moo mooo moo mooo moooo mooo moooo moo mooo m

levelled flame of pale, forked fire. As the silent harpoon burned there
mooooooo moooo mo mooo, mooooo mooo. Mo moo mooooo moooooo mooooo moooo

like a serpent's tongue, Starbuck grasped Ahab by the arm--"God, God
mooo m moooooo'm mooooo, Mooooooo moooooo Mooo mo moo moo--"Moo, Moo

is against thee, old man; forbear! 'tis an ill voyage! ill begun, ill
mo moooooo mooo, moo moo; moooooo! 'moo mo moo mooooo! moo moooo, moo

continued; let me square the yards, while we may, old man, and make a
moooooooo; moo mo mooooo moo moooo, moooo mo moo, moo moo, moo mooo m

fair wind of it homewards, to go on a better voyage than this."
mooo mooo mo mo moooooooo, mo mo mo m mooooo mooooo mooo mooo."




Overhearing Starbuck, the panic-stricken crew instantly ran to the
Moooooooooo Mooooooo, moo moooo-mooooooo mooo moooooooo moo mo moo

braces--though not a sail was left aloft. For the moment all the aghast
mooooo--mooooo moo m mooo moo mooo moooo. Moo moo mooooo moo moo mooooo

mate's thoughts seemed theirs; they raised a half mutinous cry. But
mooo'm mooooooo mooooo mooooo; mooo mooooo m mooo mooooooo moo. Moo

dashing the rattling lightning links to the deck, and snatching the
moooooo moo mooooooo moooooooo moooo mo moo mooo, moo moooooooo moo

burning harpoon, Ahab waved it like a torch among them; swearing to
moooooo moooooo, Mooo moooo mo mooo m moooo moooo mooo; mooooooo mo

transfix with it the first sailor that but cast loose a rope's end.
mooooooo mooo mo moo moooo mooooo mooo moo mooo moooo m mooo'm moo.

Petrified by his aspect, and still more shrinking from the fiery dart
Moooooooo mo moo mooooo, moo moooo mooo moooooooo mooo moo moooo mooo

that he held, the men fell back in dismay, and Ahab again spoke:--
mooo mo mooo, moo moo mooo mooo mo mooooo, moo Mooo moooo moooo:--




"All your oaths to hunt the White Whale are as binding as mine; and
"Moo mooo moooo mo mooo moo Moooo Moooo moo mo moooooo mo mooo; moo

heart, soul, and body, lungs and life, old Ahab is bound. And that ye
moooo, mooo, moo mooo, moooo moo mooo, moo Mooo mo moooo. Moo mooo mo

may know to what tune this heart beats; look ye here; thus I blow out
moo mooo mo mooo mooo mooo moooo moooo; mooo mo mooo; mooo M mooo moo

the last fear!" And with one blast of his breath he extinguished the
moo mooo mooo!" Moo mooo moo moooo mo moo mooooo mo mooooooooooo moo

flame.
moooo.




As in the hurricane that sweeps the plain, men fly the neighborhood of
Mo mo moo moooooooo mooo mooooo moo moooo, moo moo moo mooooooooooo mo

some lone, gigantic elm, whose very height and strength but render it so
mooo mooo, mooooooo moo, moooo mooo mooooo moo mooooooo moo mooooo mo mo

much the more unsafe, because so much the more a mark for thunderbolts;
mooo moo mooo mooooo, moooooo mo mooo moo mooo m mooo moo mooooooooooo;

so at those last words of Ahab's many of the mariners did run from him
mo mo moooo mooo moooo mo Mooo'm mooo mo moo mooooooo moo moo mooo moo

in a terror of dismay.
mo m mooooo mo mooooo.










CHAPTER 120. The Deck Towards the End of the First Night Watch.
MOOOOOO moo. Moo Mooo Moooooo moo Moo mo moo Moooo Moooo Moooo.




AHAB STANDING BY THE HELM. STARBUCK APPROACHING HIM.
MOOO MOOOOOOO MO MOO MOOO. MOOOOOOO MOOOOOOOOOO MOO.







"We must send down the main-top-sail yard, sir. The band is working loose
"Mo mooo mooo mooo moo mooo-moo-mooo mooo, moo. Moo mooo mo moooooo moooo

and the lee lift is half-stranded. Shall I strike it, sir?"
moo moo moo mooo mo mooo-mooooooo. Moooo M mooooo mo, moo?"




"Strike nothing; lash it. If I had sky-sail poles, I'd sway them up
"Mooooo moooooo; mooo mo. Mo M moo moo-mooo moooo, M'm mooo mooo mo

now."
moo."




"Sir!--in God's name!--sir?"
"Moo!--mo Moo'm mooo!--moo?"




"Well."
"Mooo."




"The anchors are working, sir. Shall I get them inboard?"
"Moo moooooo moo moooooo, moo. Moooo M moo mooo moooooo?"




"Strike nothing, and stir nothing, but lash everything. The wind rises,
"Mooooo moooooo, moo mooo moooooo, moo mooo mooooooooo. Moo mooo moooo,

but it has not got up to my table-lands yet. Quick, and see to it.--By
moo mo moo moo moo mo mo mo moooo-moooo moo. Moooo, moo moo mo mo.--Mo

masts and keels! he takes me for the hunch-backed skipper of some
moooo moo moooo! mo moooo mo moo moo moooo-mooooo moooooo mo mooo

coasting smack. Send down my main-top-sail yard! Ho, gluepots! Loftiest
mooooooo moooo. Mooo mooo mo mooo-moo-mooo mooo! Mo, mooooooo! Mooooooo

trucks were made for wildest winds, and this brain-truck of mine now
mooooo mooo mooo moo moooooo moooo, moo mooo moooo-moooo mo mooo moo

sails amid the cloud-scud. Shall I strike that? Oh, none but cowards
moooo mooo moo moooo-mooo. Moooo M mooooo mooo? Mo, mooo moo moooooo

send down their brain-trucks in tempest time. What a hooroosh aloft
mooo mooo moooo moooo-mooooo mo moooooo mooo. Mooo m mooooooo moooo

there! I would e'en take it for sublime, did I not know that the colic
moooo! M moooo m'mo mooo mo moo moooooo, moo M moo mooo mooo moo moooo

is a noisy malady. Oh, take medicine, take medicine!"
mo m moooo mooooo. Mo, mooo mooooooo, mooo mooooooo!"










CHAPTER 121. Midnight.--The Forecastle Bulwarks.
MOOOOOO moo. Mooooooo.--Moo Mooooooooo Mooooooo.







STUBB AND FLASK MOUNTED ON THEM, AND PASSING ADDITIONAL LASHINGS OVER
MOOOO MOO MOOOO MOOOOOO MO MOOO, MOO MOOOOOO MOOOOOOOOO MOOOOOOO MOOO

THE ANCHORS THERE HANGING.
MOO MOOOOOO MOOOO MOOOOOO.







"No, Stubb; you may pound that knot there as much as you please, but you
"Mo, Moooo; moo moo moooo mooo mooo moooo mo mooo mo moo mooooo, moo moo

will never pound into me what you were just now saying. And how long
mooo moooo moooo mooo mo mooo moo mooo mooo moo mooooo. Moo moo mooo

ago is it since you said the very contrary? Didn't you once say that
moo mo mo moooo moo mooo moo mooo mooooooo? Mooo'm moo mooo moo mooo

whatever ship Ahab sails in, that ship should pay something extra on its
mooooooo mooo Mooo moooo mo, mooo mooo mooooo moo moooooooo moooo mo moo

insurance policy, just as though it were loaded with powder barrels aft
moooooooo mooooo, mooo mo mooooo mo mooo mooooo mooo mooooo moooooo moo

and boxes of lucifers forward? Stop, now; didn't you say so?"
moo moooo mo mooooooo moooooo? Mooo, moo; mooo'm moo moo mo?"




"Well, suppose I did? What then? I've part changed my flesh since that
"Mooo, moooooo M moo? Mooo mooo? M'mo mooo moooooo mo moooo moooo mooo

time, why not my mind? Besides, supposing we ARE loaded with powder
mooo, moo moo mo mooo? Moooooo, moooooooo mo MOO mooooo mooo mooooo

barrels aft and lucifers forward; how the devil could the lucifers get
moooooo moo moo mooooooo moooooo; moo moo moooo moooo moo mooooooo moo

afire in this drenching spray here? Why, my little man, you have
moooo mo mooo moooooooo moooo mooo? Moo, mo mooooo moo, moo mooo

pretty red hair, but you couldn't get afire now. Shake yourself; you're
mooooo moo mooo, moo moo mooooo'm moo moooo moo. Moooo mooooooo; moo'mo

Aquarius, or the water-bearer, Flask; might fill pitchers at your coat
Mooooooo, mo moo moooo-mooooo, Moooo; moooo mooo mooooooo mo mooo mooo

collar. Don't you see, then, that for these extra risks the Marine
mooooo. Moo'm moo moo, mooo, mooo moo moooo moooo moooo moo Mooooo

Insurance companies have extra guarantees? Here are hydrants, Flask. But
Moooooooo moooooooo mooo moooo mooooooooo? Mooo moo mooooooo, Moooo. Moo

hark, again, and I'll answer ye the other thing. First take your leg off
mooo, moooo, moo M'mo mooooo mo moo moooo moooo. Moooo mooo mooo moo moo

from the crown of the anchor here, though, so I can pass the rope;
mooo moo moooo mo moo mooooo mooo, mooooo, mo M moo mooo moo mooo;

now listen. What's the mighty difference between holding a mast's
moo mooooo. Mooo'm moo mooooo mooooooooo moooooo moooooo m mooo'm

lightning-rod in the storm, and standing close by a mast that hasn't
moooooooo-moo mo moo moooo, moo mooooooo moooo mo m mooo mooo mooo'm

got any lightning-rod at all in a storm? Don't you see, you timber-head,
moo moo moooooooo-moo mo moo mo m moooo? Moo'm moo moo, moo mooooo-mooo,

that no harm can come to the holder of the rod, unless the mast is first
mooo mo mooo moo mooo mo moo mooooo mo moo moo, mooooo moo mooo mo moooo

struck? What are you talking about, then? Not one ship in a hundred
mooooo? Mooo moo moo moooooo moooo, mooo? Moo moo mooo mo m moooooo

carries rods, and Ahab,--aye, man, and all of us,--were in no more
moooooo mooo, moo Mooo,--moo, moo, moo moo mo mo,--mooo mo mo mooo

danger then, in my poor opinion, than all the crews in ten thousand
mooooo mooo, mo mo mooo moooooo, mooo moo moo moooo mo moo mooooooo

ships now sailing the seas. Why, you King-Post, you, I suppose you would
moooo moo moooooo moo mooo. Moo, moo Mooo-Mooo, moo, M moooooo moo moooo

have every man in the world go about with a small lightning-rod running
mooo moooo moo mo moo moooo mo moooo mooo m moooo moooooooo-moo moooooo

up the corner of his hat, like a militia officer's skewered feather,
mo moo mooooo mo moo moo, mooo m moooooo moooooo'm mooooooo moooooo,

and trailing behind like his sash. Why don't ye be sensible, Flask? it's
moo mooooooo mooooo mooo moo mooo. Moo moo'm mo mo mooooooo, Moooo? mo'm

easy to be sensible; why don't ye, then? any man with half an eye can be
mooo mo mo mooooooo; moo moo'm mo, mooo? moo moo mooo mooo mo moo moo mo

sensible."
mooooooo."




"I don't know that, Stubb. You sometimes find it rather hard."
"M moo'm mooo mooo, Moooo. Moo moooooooo mooo mo mooooo mooo."




"Yes, when a fellow's soaked through, it's hard to be sensible, that's
"Moo, mooo m mooooo'm mooooo moooooo, mo'm mooo mo mo mooooooo, mooo'm

a fact. And I am about drenched with this spray. Never mind; catch the
m mooo. Moo M mo moooo mooooooo mooo mooo moooo. Moooo mooo; moooo moo

turn there, and pass it. Seems to me we are lashing down these anchors
mooo moooo, moo mooo mo. Moooo mo mo mo moo moooooo mooo moooo moooooo

now as if they were never going to be used again. Tying these two
moo mo mo mooo mooo moooo moooo mo mo mooo moooo. Moooo moooo moo

anchors here, Flask, seems like tying a man's hands behind him. And what
moooooo mooo, Moooo, moooo mooo moooo m moo'm moooo mooooo moo. Moo mooo

big generous hands they are, to be sure. These are your iron fists,
moo mooooooo moooo mooo moo, mo mo mooo. Moooo moo mooo mooo moooo,

hey? What a hold they have, too! I wonder, Flask, whether the world is
moo? Mooo m mooo mooo mooo, moo! M mooooo, Moooo, moooooo moo moooo mo

anchored anywhere; if she is, she swings with an uncommon long cable,
mooooooo mooooooo; mo moo mo, moo mooooo mooo mo mooooooo mooo moooo,

though. There, hammer that knot down, and we've done. So; next to
mooooo. Moooo, mooooo mooo mooo mooo, moo mo'mo mooo. Mo; mooo mo

touching land, lighting on deck is the most satisfactory. I say, just
mooooooo mooo, mooooooo mo mooo mo moo mooo mooooooooooo. M moo, mooo

wring out my jacket skirts, will ye? Thank ye. They laugh at long-togs
moooo moo mo mooooo mooooo, mooo mo? Moooo mo. Mooo moooo mo mooo-mooo

so, Flask; but seems to me, a Long tailed coat ought always to be worn
mo, Moooo; moo moooo mo mo, m Mooo mooooo mooo moooo mooooo mo mo mooo

in all storms afloat. The tails tapering down that way, serve to carry
mo moo mooooo mooooo. Moo moooo mooooooo mooo mooo moo, moooo mo moooo

off the water, d'ye see. Same with cocked hats; the cocks form gable-end
moo moo moooo, m'mo moo. Mooo mooo mooooo mooo; moo moooo mooo moooo-moo

eave-troughs, Flask. No more monkey-jackets and tarpaulins for me; I
mooo-moooooo, Moooo. Mo mooo mooooo-moooooo moo mooooooooo moo mo; M

must mount a swallow-tail, and drive down a beaver; so. Halloa! whew!
mooo moooo m moooooo-mooo, moo moooo mooo m mooooo; mo. Mooooo! mooo!

there goes my tarpaulin overboard; Lord, Lord, that the winds that come
moooo mooo mo moooooooo moooooooo; Mooo, Mooo, mooo moo moooo mooo mooo

from heaven should be so unmannerly! This is a nasty night, lad."
mooo mooooo mooooo mo mo mooooooooo! Mooo mo m moooo moooo, moo."










CHAPTER 122. Midnight Aloft.--Thunder and Lightning.
MOOOOOO moo. Mooooooo Moooo.--Moooooo moo Moooooooo.







THE MAIN-TOP-SAIL YARD.--TASHTEGO PASSING NEW LASHINGS AROUND IT.
MOO MOOO-MOO-MOOO MOOO.--MOOOOOOO MOOOOOO MOO MOOOOOOO MOOOOO MO.







"Um, um, um. Stop that thunder! Plenty too much thunder up here. What's
"Mo, mo, mo. Mooo mooo moooooo! Mooooo moo mooo moooooo mo mooo. Mooo'm

the use of thunder? Um, um, um. We don't want thunder; we want rum; give
moo moo mo moooooo? Mo, mo, mo. Mo moo'm mooo moooooo; mo mooo moo; mooo

us a glass of rum. Um, um, um!"
mo m moooo mo moo. Mo, mo, mo!"










CHAPTER 123. The Musket.
MOOOOOO moo. Moo Mooooo.







During the most violent shocks of the Typhoon, the man at the Pequod's
Mooooo moo mooo moooooo mooooo mo moo Moooooo, moo moo mo moo Mooooo'm

jaw-bone tiller had several times been reelingly hurled to the deck by
moo-mooo mooooo moo moooooo moooo mooo moooooooo mooooo mo moo mooo mo

its spasmodic motions, even though preventer tackles had been attached
moo moooooooo moooooo, mooo mooooo moooooooo moooooo moo mooo mooooooo

to it--for they were slack--because some play to the tiller was
mo mo--moo mooo mooo moooo--moooooo mooo mooo mo moo mooooo moo

indispensable.
moooooooooooo.




In a severe gale like this, while the ship is but a tossed shuttlecock
Mo m mooooo mooo mooo mooo, moooo moo mooo mo moo m mooooo moooooooooo

to the blast, it is by no means uncommon to see the needles in the
mo moo moooo, mo mo mo mo moooo mooooooo mo moo moo moooooo mo moo

compasses, at intervals, go round and round. It was thus with the
moooooooo, mo moooooooo, mo moooo moo moooo. Mo moo mooo mooo moo

Pequod's; at almost every shock the helmsman had not failed to notice
Mooooo'm; mo mooooo moooo moooo moo mooooooo moo moo mooooo mo mooooo

the whirling velocity with which they revolved upon the cards; it is
moo mooooooo mooooooo mooo moooo mooo mooooooo mooo moo moooo; mo mo

a sight that hardly anyone can behold without some sort of unwonted
m moooo mooo mooooo mooooo moo mooooo moooooo mooo mooo mo mooooooo

emotion.
moooooo.




Some hours after midnight, the Typhoon abated so much, that through the
Mooo moooo moooo mooooooo, moo Moooooo mooooo mo mooo, mooo moooooo moo

strenuous exertions of Starbuck and Stubb--one engaged forward and the
moooooooo moooooooo mo Mooooooo moo Moooo--moo moooooo moooooo moo moo

other aft--the shivered remnants of the jib and fore and main-top-sails
moooo moo--moo mooooooo mooooooo mo moo moo moo mooo moo mooo-moo-moooo

were cut adrift from the spars, and went eddying away to leeward, like
mooo moo mooooo mooo moo moooo, moo mooo moooooo mooo mo moooooo, mooo

the feathers of an albatross, which sometimes are cast to the winds when
moo mooooooo mo mo moooooooo, moooo moooooooo moo mooo mo moo moooo mooo

that storm-tossed bird is on the wing.
mooo moooo-mooooo mooo mo mo moo mooo.




The three corresponding new sails were now bent and reefed, and a
Moo moooo moooooooooooo moo moooo mooo moo mooo moo mooooo, moo m

storm-trysail was set further aft; so that the ship soon went through
moooo-moooooo moo moo moooooo moo; mo mooo moo mooo mooo mooo moooooo

the water with some precision again; and the course--for the present,
moo moooo mooo mooo moooooooo moooo; moo moo mooooo--moo moo moooooo,

East-south-east--which he was to steer, if practicable, was once more
Mooo-moooo-mooo--moooo mo moo mo moooo, mo moooooooooo, moo mooo mooo

given to the helmsman. For during the violence of the gale, he had only
moooo mo moo mooooooo. Moo mooooo moo mooooooo mo moo mooo, mo moo mooo

steered according to its vicissitudes. But as he was now bringing the
moooooo moooooooo mo moo mooooooooooo. Moo mo mo moo moo mooooooo moo

ship as near her course as possible, watching the compass meanwhile, lo!
mooo mo mooo moo mooooo mo mooooooo, mooooooo moo moooooo moooooooo, mo!

a good sign! the wind seemed coming round astern; aye, the foul breeze
m mooo mooo! moo mooo mooooo mooooo moooo mooooo; moo, moo mooo mooooo

became fair!
mooooo mooo!




Instantly the yards were squared, to the lively song of "HO! THE
Moooooooo moo moooo mooo moooooo, mo moo mooooo mooo mo "MO! MOO

FAIR WIND! OH-YE-HO, CHEERLY MEN!" the crew singing for joy, that so
MOOO MOOO! MO-MO-MO, MOOOOOO MOO!" moo mooo moooooo moo moo, mooo mo

promising an event should so soon have falsified the evil portents
moooooooo mo moooo mooooo mo mooo mooo moooooooo moo mooo mooooooo

preceding it.
moooooooo mo.




In compliance with the standing order of his commander--to report
Mo mooooooooo mooo moo mooooooo moooo mo moo moooooooo--mo mooooo

immediately, and at any one of the twenty-four hours, any decided change
moooooooooo, moo mo moo moo mo moo mooooo-mooo moooo, moo moooooo mooooo

in the affairs of the deck,--Starbuck had no sooner trimmed the yards to
mo moo moooooo mo moo mooo,--Mooooooo moo mo mooooo moooooo moo moooo mo

the breeze--however reluctantly and gloomily,--than he mechanically went
moo mooooo--moooooo moooooooooo moo mooooooo,--mooo mo mooooooooooo mooo

below to apprise Captain Ahab of the circumstance.
moooo mo moooooo Moooooo Mooo mo moo mooooooooooo.




Ere knocking at his state-room, he involuntarily paused before it
Moo mooooooo mo moo moooo-mooo, mo moooooooooooo mooooo mooooo mo

a moment. The cabin lamp--taking long swings this way and that--was
m mooooo. Moo moooo mooo--mooooo mooo mooooo mooo moo moo mooo--moo

burning fitfully, and casting fitful shadows upon the old man's bolted
moooooo mooooooo, moo moooooo mooooo moooooo mooo moo moo moo'm mooooo

door,--a thin one, with fixed blinds inserted, in place of upper panels.
mooo,--m mooo moo, mooo moooo mooooo mooooooo, mo moooo mo moooo mooooo.

The isolated subterraneousness of the cabin made a certain humming
Moo mooooooo moooooooooooooooo mo moo moooo mooo m moooooo moooooo

silence to reign there, though it was hooped round by all the roar of
moooooo mo moooo moooo, mooooo mo moo mooooo moooo mo moo moo mooo mo

the elements. The loaded muskets in the rack were shiningly revealed, as
moo mooooooo. Moo mooooo moooooo mo moo mooo mooo moooooooo mooooooo, mo

they stood upright against the forward bulkhead. Starbuck was an honest,
mooo moooo moooooo moooooo moo moooooo mooooooo. Mooooooo moo mo mooooo,

upright man; but out of Starbuck's heart, at that instant when he saw
moooooo moo; moo moo mo Mooooooo'm moooo, mo mooo moooooo mooo mo moo

the muskets, there strangely evolved an evil thought; but so blent with
moo moooooo, moooo moooooooo moooooo mo mooo moooooo; moo mo moooo mooo

its neutral or good accompaniments that for the instant he hardly knew
moo moooooo mo mooo mooooooooooooo mooo moo moo moooooo mo mooooo mooo

it for itself.
mo moo mooooo.




"He would have shot me once," he murmured, "yes, there's the very musket
"Mo moooo mooo mooo mo mooo," mo mooooooo, "moo, moooo'm moo mooo mooooo

that he pointed at me;--that one with the studded stock; let me touch
mooo mo moooooo mo mo;--mooo moo mooo moo moooooo moooo; moo mo moooo

it--lift it. Strange, that I, who have handled so many deadly lances,
mo--mooo mo. Moooooo, mooo M, moo mooo moooooo mo mooo mooooo mooooo,

strange, that I should shake so now. Loaded? I must see. Aye, aye; and
moooooo, mooo M mooooo moooo mo moo. Mooooo? M mooo moo. Moo, moo; moo

powder in the pan;--that's not good. Best spill it?--wait. I'll cure
mooooo mo moo moo;--mooo'm moo mooo. Mooo moooo mo?--mooo. M'mo mooo

myself of this. I'll hold the musket boldly while I think.--I come
mooooo mo mooo. M'mo mooo moo mooooo mooooo moooo M moooo.--M mooo

to report a fair wind to him. But how fair? Fair for death and
mo mooooo m mooo mooo mo moo. Moo moo mooo? Mooo moo moooo moo

doom,--THAT'S fair for Moby Dick. It's a fair wind that's only fair for
mooo,--MOOO'M mooo moo Mooo Mooo. Mo'm m mooo mooo mooo'm mooo mooo moo

that accursed fish.--The very tube he pointed at me!--the very one;
mooo mooooooo mooo.--Moo mooo mooo mo moooooo mo mo!--moo mooo moo;

THIS one--I hold it here; he would have killed me with the very thing I
MOOO moo--M mooo mo mooo; mo moooo mooo mooooo mo mooo moo mooo moooo M

handle now.--Aye and he would fain kill all his crew. Does he not say
mooooo moo.--Moo moo mo moooo mooo mooo moo moo mooo. Mooo mo moo moo

he will not strike his spars to any gale? Has he not dashed his heavenly
mo mooo moo mooooo moo moooo mo moo mooo? Moo mo moo mooooo moo mooooooo

quadrant? and in these same perilous seas, gropes he not his way by mere
mooooooo? moo mo moooo mooo mooooooo mooo, mooooo mo moo moo moo mo mooo

dead reckoning of the error-abounding log? and in this very Typhoon, did
mooo moooooooo mo moo moooo-moooooooo moo? moo mo mooo mooo Moooooo, moo

he not swear that he would have no lightning-rods? But shall this crazed
mo moo moooo mooo mo moooo mooo mo moooooooo-mooo? Moo moooo mooo mooooo

old man be tamely suffered to drag a whole ship's company down to doom
moo moo mo mooooo mooooooo mo mooo m moooo mooo'm moooooo mooo mo mooo

with him?--Yes, it would make him the wilful murderer of thirty men and
mooo moo?--Moo, mo moooo mooo moo moo mooooo mooooooo mo mooooo moo moo

more, if this ship come to any deadly harm; and come to deadly harm, my
mooo, mo mooo mooo mooo mo moo mooooo mooo; moo mooo mo mooooo mooo, mo

soul swears this ship will, if Ahab have his way. If, then, he were this
mooo mooooo mooo mooo mooo, mo Mooo mooo moo moo. Mo, mooo, mo mooo mooo

instant--put aside, that crime would not be his. Ha! is he muttering in
moooooo--moo moooo, mooo moooo moooo moo mo moo. Mo! mo mo moooooooo mo

his sleep? Yes, just there,--in there, he's sleeping. Sleeping? aye,
moo moooo? Moo, mooo moooo,--mo moooo, mo'm mooooooo. Mooooooo? moo,

but still alive, and soon awake again. I can't withstand thee, then, old
moo moooo moooo, moo mooo moooo moooo. M moo'm moooooooo mooo, mooo, moo

man. Not reasoning; not remonstrance; not entreaty wilt thou hearken to;
moo. Moo moooooooo; moo mooooooooooo; moo mooooooo mooo mooo moooooo mo;

all this thou scornest. Flat obedience to thy own flat commands, this is
moo mooo mooo mooooooo. Mooo moooooooo mo moo moo mooo mooooooo, mooo mo

all thou breathest. Aye, and say'st the men have vow'd thy vow; say'st
moo mooo moooooooo. Moo, moo moo'mo moo moo mooo moo'm moo moo; moo'mo

all of us are Ahabs. Great God forbid!--But is there no other way? no
moo mo mo moo Moooo. Moooo Moo mooooo!--Moo mo moooo mo moooo moo? mo

lawful way?--Make him a prisoner to be taken home? What! hope to wrest
mooooo moo?--Mooo moo m mooooooo mo mo moooo mooo? Mooo! mooo mo moooo

this old man's living power from his own living hands? Only a fool
mooo moo moo'm mooooo moooo mooo moo moo mooooo moooo? Mooo m mooo

would try it. Say he were pinioned even; knotted all over with ropes
moooo moo mo. Moo mo mooo mooooooo mooo; moooooo moo mooo mooo moooo

and hawsers; chained down to ring-bolts on this cabin floor; he would
moo moooooo; moooooo mooo mo mooo-moooo mo mooo moooo moooo; mo moooo

be more hideous than a caged tiger, then. I could not endure the
mo mooo moooooo mooo m moooo moooo, mooo. M moooo moo mooooo moo

sight; could not possibly fly his howlings; all comfort, sleep itself,
moooo; moooo moo mooooooo moo moo mooooooo; moo moooooo, moooo mooooo,

inestimable reason would leave me on the long intolerable voyage. What,
moooooooooo mooooo moooo moooo mo mo moo mooo moooooooooo mooooo. Mooo,

then, remains? The land is hundreds of leagues away, and locked Japan
mooo, moooooo? Moo mooo mo mooooooo mo moooooo mooo, moo mooooo Moooo

the nearest. I stand alone here upon an open sea, with two oceans and
moo moooooo. M moooo moooo mooo mooo mo mooo moo, mooo moo mooooo moo

a whole continent between me and law.--Aye, aye, 'tis so.--Is heaven
m moooo moooooooo moooooo mo moo moo.--Moo, moo, 'moo mo.--Mo mooooo

a murderer when its lightning strikes a would-be murderer in his bed,
m mooooooo mooo moo moooooooo moooooo m moooo-mo mooooooo mo moo moo,

tindering sheets and skin together?--And would I be a murderer, then,
moooooooo mooooo moo mooo mooooooo?--Moo moooo M mo m mooooooo, mooo,

if"--and slowly, stealthily, and half sideways looking, he placed the
mo"--moo mooooo, mooooooooo, moo mooo mooooooo moooooo, mo mooooo moo

loaded musket's end against the door.
mooooo mooooo'm moo moooooo moo mooo.




"On this level, Ahab's hammock swings within; his head this way. A
"Mo mooo moooo, Mooo'm moooooo mooooo mooooo; moo mooo mooo moo. M

touch, and Starbuck may survive to hug his wife and child again.--Oh
moooo, moo Mooooooo moo moooooo mo moo moo mooo moo moooo moooo.--Mo

Mary! Mary!--boy! boy! boy!--But if I wake thee not to death, old man,
Mooo! Mooo!--moo! moo! moo!--Moo mo M mooo mooo moo mo moooo, moo moo,

who can tell to what unsounded deeps Starbuck's body this day week
moo moo mooo mo mooo moooooooo moooo Mooooooo'm mooo mooo moo mooo

may sink, with all the crew! Great God, where art Thou? Shall I? shall
moo mooo, mooo moo moo mooo! Moooo Moo, moooo moo Mooo? Moooo M? moooo

I?--The wind has gone down and shifted, sir; the fore and main topsails
M?--Moo mooo moo mooo mooo moo moooooo, moo; moo mooo moo mooo mooooooo

are reefed and set; she heads her course."
moo mooooo moo moo; moo moooo moo mooooo."




"Stern all! Oh Moby Dick, I clutch thy heart at last!"
"Moooo moo! Mo Mooo Mooo, M mooooo moo moooo mo mooo!"




Such were the sounds that now came hurtling from out the old man's
Mooo mooo moo mooooo mooo moo mooo mooooooo mooo moo moo moo moo'm

tormented sleep, as if Starbuck's voice had caused the long dumb dream
moooooooo moooo, mo mo Mooooooo'm moooo moo mooooo moo mooo mooo moooo

to speak.
mo moooo.




The yet levelled musket shook like a drunkard's arm against the panel;
Moo moo mooooooo mooooo moooo mooo m mooooooo'm moo moooooo moo moooo;

Starbuck seemed wrestling with an angel; but turning from the door, he
Mooooooo mooooo moooooooo mooo mo moooo; moo moooooo mooo moo mooo, mo

placed the death-tube in its rack, and left the place.
mooooo moo moooo-mooo mo moo mooo, moo mooo moo moooo.




"He's too sound asleep, Mr. Stubb; go thou down, and wake him, and tell
"Mo'm moo moooo mooooo, Mo. Moooo; mo mooo mooo, moo mooo moo, moo mooo

him. I must see to the deck here. Thou know'st what to say."
moo. M mooo moo mo moo mooo mooo. Mooo mooo'mo mooo mo moo."










CHAPTER 124. The Needle.
MOOOOOO moo. Moo Mooooo.







Next morning the not-yet-subsided sea rolled in long slow billows of
Mooo moooooo moo moo-moo-mooooooo moo mooooo mo mooo mooo moooooo mo

mighty bulk, and striving in the Pequod's gurgling track, pushed her on
mooooo mooo, moo mooooooo mo moo Mooooo'm mooooooo moooo, mooooo moo mo

like giants' palms outspread. The strong, unstaggering breeze abounded
mooo mooooo' moooo moooooooo. Moo mooooo, mooooooooooo mooooo mooooooo

so, that sky and air seemed vast outbellying sails; the whole world
mo, mooo moo moo moo mooooo mooo moooooooooo moooo; moo moooo moooo

boomed before the wind. Muffled in the full morning light, the invisible
mooooo mooooo moo mooo. Moooooo mo moo mooo moooooo moooo, moo moooooooo

sun was only known by the spread intensity of his place; where his
moo moo mooo moooo mo moo mooooo moooooooo mo moo moooo; moooo moo

bayonet rays moved on in stacks. Emblazonings, as of crowned Babylonian
moooooo mooo moooo mo mo mooooo. Mooooooooooo, mo mo moooooo Mooooooooo

kings and queens, reigned over everything. The sea was as a crucible of
moooo moo mooooo, moooooo mooo mooooooooo. Moo moo moo mo m mooooooo mo

molten gold, that bubblingly leaps with light and heat.
mooooo mooo, mooo mooooooooo moooo mooo moooo moo mooo.




Long maintaining an enchanted silence, Ahab stood apart; and every time
Mooo moooooooooo mo moooooooo moooooo, Mooo moooo moooo; moo moooo mooo

the tetering ship loweringly pitched down her bowsprit, he turned to eye
moo mooooooo mooo mooooooooo moooooo mooo moo mooooooo, mo mooooo mo moo

the bright sun's rays produced ahead; and when she profoundly settled by
moo mooooo moo'm mooo mooooooo moooo; moo mooo moo mooooooooo moooooo mo

the stern, he turned behind, and saw the sun's rearward place, and how
moo moooo, mo mooooo mooooo, moo moo moo moo'm mooooooo moooo, moo moo

the same yellow rays were blending with his undeviating wake.
moo mooo mooooo mooo mooo mooooooo mooo moo moooooooooo mooo.




"Ha, ha, my ship! thou mightest well be taken now for the sea-chariot of
"Mo, mo, mo mooo! mooo mooooooo mooo mo moooo moo moo moo moo-moooooo mo

the sun. Ho, ho! all ye nations before my prow, I bring the sun to ye!
moo moo. Mo, mo! moo mo moooooo mooooo mo mooo, M moooo moo moo mo mo!

Yoke on the further billows; hallo! a tandem, I drive the sea!"
Mooo mo moo moooooo moooooo; moooo! m mooooo, M moooo moo moo!"




But suddenly reined back by some counter thought, he hurried towards the
Moo mooooooo mooooo mooo mo mooo moooooo moooooo, mo moooooo moooooo moo

helm, huskily demanding how the ship was heading.
mooo, moooooo moooooooo moo moo mooo moo moooooo.




"East-sou-east, sir," said the frightened steersman.
"Mooo-moo-mooo, moo," mooo moo mooooooooo moooooooo.




"Thou liest!" smiting him with his clenched fist. "Heading East at this
"Mooo moooo!" moooooo moo mooo moo mooooooo mooo. "Moooooo Mooo mo mooo

hour in the morning, and the sun astern?"
mooo mo moo moooooo, moo moo moo mooooo?"




Upon this every soul was confounded; for the phenomenon just then
Mooo mooo moooo mooo moo mooooooooo; moo moo mooooooooo mooo mooo

observed by Ahab had unaccountably escaped every one else; but its very
mooooooo mo Mooo moo moooooooooooo moooooo moooo moo mooo; moo moo mooo

blinding palpableness must have been the cause.
mooooooo mooooooooooo mooo mooo mooo moo moooo.




Thrusting his head half way into the binnacle, Ahab caught one glimpse
Moooooooo moo mooo mooo moo mooo moo mooooooo, Mooo mooooo moo moooooo

of the compasses; his uplifted arm slowly fell; for a moment he almost
mo moo moooooooo; moo mooooooo moo mooooo mooo; moo m mooooo mo mooooo

seemed to stagger. Standing behind him Starbuck looked, and lo! the two
mooooo mo moooooo. Mooooooo mooooo moo Mooooooo mooooo, moo mo! moo moo

compasses pointed East, and the Pequod was as infallibly going West.
moooooooo moooooo Mooo, moo moo Mooooo moo mo mooooooooo moooo Mooo.




But ere the first wild alarm could get out abroad among the crew,
Moo moo moo moooo mooo moooo moooo moo moo mooooo moooo moo mooo,

the old man with a rigid laugh exclaimed, "I have it! It has happened
moo moo moo mooo m moooo moooo moooooooo, "M mooo mo! Mo moo mooooooo

before. Mr. Starbuck, last night's thunder turned our compasses--that's
mooooo. Mo. Mooooooo, mooo moooo'm moooooo mooooo moo moooooooo--mooo'm

all. Thou hast before now heard of such a thing, I take it."
moo. Mooo mooo mooooo moo moooo mo mooo m moooo, M mooo mo."




"Aye; but never before has it happened to me, sir," said the pale mate,
"Moo; moo moooo mooooo moo mo mooooooo mo mo, moo," mooo moo mooo mooo,

gloomily.
mooooooo.




Here, it must needs be said, that accidents like this have in more than
Mooo, mo mooo moooo mo mooo, mooo moooooooo mooo mooo mooo mo mooo mooo

one case occurred to ships in violent storms. The magnetic energy, as
moo mooo mooooooo mo moooo mo moooooo mooooo. Moo mooooooo mooooo, mo

developed in the mariner's needle, is, as all know, essentially one with
moooooooo mo moo moooooo'm mooooo, mo, mo moo mooo, moooooooooo moo mooo

the electricity beheld in heaven; hence it is not to be much marvelled
moo moooooooooo mooooo mo mooooo; moooo mo mo moo mo mo mooo moooooooo

at, that such things should be. Instances where the lightning has
mo, mooo mooo mooooo mooooo mo. Moooooooo moooo moo moooooooo moo

actually struck the vessel, so as to smite down some of the spars and
mooooooo mooooo moo mooooo, mo mo mo moooo mooo mooo mo moo moooo moo

rigging, the effect upon the needle has at times been still more fatal;
moooooo, moo mooooo mooo moo mooooo moo mo moooo mooo moooo mooo moooo;

all its loadstone virtue being annihilated, so that the before magnetic
moo moo moooooooo mooooo moooo moooooooooo, mo mooo moo mooooo mooooooo

steel was of no more use than an old wife's knitting needle. But in
moooo moo mo mo mooo moo mooo mo moo mooo'm mooooooo mooooo. Moo mo

either case, the needle never again, of itself, recovers the original
mooooo mooo, moo mooooo moooo moooo, mo mooooo, mooooooo moo mooooooo

virtue thus marred or lost; and if the binnacle compasses be affected,
mooooo mooo mooooo mo mooo; moo mo moo mooooooo moooooooo mo mooooooo,

the same fate reaches all the others that may be in the ship; even were
moo mooo mooo moooooo moo moo mooooo mooo moo mo mo moo mooo; mooo mooo

the lowermost one inserted into the kelson.
moo moooooooo moo mooooooo mooo moo mooooo.




Deliberately standing before the binnacle, and eyeing the transpointed
Mooooooooooo mooooooo mooooo moo mooooooo, moo mooooo moo mooooooooooo

compasses, the old man, with the sharp of his extended hand, now took
moooooooo, moo moo moo, mooo moo moooo mo moo mooooooo mooo, moo mooo

the precise bearing of the sun, and satisfied that the needles were
moo moooooo moooooo mo moo moo, moo moooooooo mooo moo moooooo mooo

exactly inverted, shouted out his orders for the ship's course to be
moooooo mooooooo, moooooo moo moo mooooo moo moo mooo'm mooooo mo mo

changed accordingly. The yards were hard up; and once more the Pequod
moooooo moooooooooo. Moo moooo mooo mooo mo; moo mooo mooo moo Mooooo

thrust her undaunted bows into the opposing wind, for the supposed fair
mooooo moo moooooooo mooo mooo moo mooooooo mooo, moo moo mooooooo mooo

one had only been juggling her.
moo moo mooo mooo mooooooo moo.




Meanwhile, whatever were his own secret thoughts, Starbuck said nothing,
Moooooooo, mooooooo mooo moo moo mooooo mooooooo, Mooooooo mooo moooooo,

but quietly he issued all requisite orders; while Stubb and Flask--who
moo moooooo mo mooooo moo moooooooo mooooo; moooo Moooo moo Moooo--moo

in some small degree seemed then to be sharing his feelings--likewise
mo mooo moooo mooooo mooooo mooo mo mo moooooo moo mooooooo--mooooooo

unmurmuringly acquiesced. As for the men, though some of them lowly
moooooooooooo mooooooooo. Mo moo moo moo, mooooo mooo mo mooo moooo

rumbled, their fear of Ahab was greater than their fear of Fate. But as
moooooo, moooo mooo mo Mooo moo moooooo mooo moooo mooo mo Mooo. Moo mo

ever before, the pagan harpooneers remained almost wholly unimpressed;
mooo mooooo, moo moooo moooooooooo mooooooo mooooo mooooo moooooooooo;

or if impressed, it was only with a certain magnetism shot into their
mo mo moooooooo, mo moo mooo mooo m moooooo moooooooo mooo mooo moooo

congenial hearts from inflexible Ahab's.
moooooooo mooooo mooo mooooooooo Mooo'm.




For a space the old man walked the deck in rolling reveries. But
Moo m moooo moo moo moo mooooo moo mooo mo moooooo mooooooo. Moo

chancing to slip with his ivory heel, he saw the crushed copper
mooooooo mo mooo mooo moo moooo mooo, mo moo moo moooooo mooooo

sight-tubes of the quadrant he had the day before dashed to the deck.
moooo-moooo mo moo mooooooo mo moo moo moo mooooo mooooo mo moo mooo.




"Thou poor, proud heaven-gazer and sun's pilot! yesterday I wrecked
"Mooo mooo, moooo mooooo-moooo moo moo'm moooo! moooooooo M moooooo

thee, and to-day the compasses would fain have wrecked me. So, so. But
mooo, moo mo-moo moo moooooooo moooo mooo mooo moooooo mo. Mo, mo. Moo

Ahab is lord over the level loadstone yet. Mr. Starbuck--a lance without
Mooo mo mooo mooo moo moooo moooooooo moo. Mo. Mooooooo--m moooo moooooo

a pole; a top-maul, and the smallest of the sail-maker's needles.
m mooo; m moo-mooo, moo moo mooooooo mo moo mooo-moooo'm moooooo.

Quick!"
Moooo!"




Accessory, perhaps, to the impulse dictating the thing he was now about
Moooooooo, moooooo, mo moo moooooo moooooooo moo moooo mo moo moo moooo

to do, were certain prudential motives, whose object might have been to
mo mo, mooo moooooo mooooooooo moooooo, moooo mooooo moooo mooo mooo mo

revive the spirits of his crew by a stroke of his subtile skill, in a
mooooo moo moooooo mo moo mooo mo m mooooo mo moo moooooo moooo, mo m

matter so wondrous as that of the inverted compasses. Besides, the old
mooooo mo mooooooo mo mooo mo moo mooooooo moooooooo. Moooooo, moo moo

man well knew that to steer by transpointed needles, though clumsily
moo mooo mooo mooo mo moooo mo mooooooooooo moooooo, mooooo mooooooo

practicable, was not a thing to be passed over by superstitious sailors,
moooooooooo, moo moo m moooo mo mo mooooo mooo mo moooooooooooo moooooo,

without some shudderings and evil portents.
moooooo mooo moooooooooo moo mooo mooooooo.




"Men," said he, steadily turning upon the crew, as the mate handed
"Moo," mooo mo, mooooooo moooooo mooo moo mooo, mo moo mooo mooooo

him the things he had demanded, "my men, the thunder turned old Ahab's
moo moo mooooo mo moo mooooooo, "mo moo, moo moooooo mooooo moo Mooo'm

needles; but out of this bit of steel Ahab can make one of his own, that
moooooo; moo moo mo mooo moo mo moooo Mooo moo mooo moo mo moo moo, mooo

will point as true as any."
mooo moooo mo mooo mo moo."




Abashed glances of servile wonder were exchanged by the sailors, as this
Moooooo moooooo mo moooooo mooooo mooo moooooooo mo moo moooooo, mo mooo

was said; and with fascinated eyes they awaited whatever magic might
moo mooo; moo mooo mooooooooo mooo mooo moooooo mooooooo moooo moooo

follow. But Starbuck looked away.
mooooo. Moo Mooooooo mooooo mooo.




With a blow from the top-maul Ahab knocked off the steel head of the
Mooo m mooo mooo moo moo-mooo Mooo moooooo moo moo moooo mooo mo moo

lance, and then handing to the mate the long iron rod remaining, bade
moooo, moo mooo moooooo mo moo mooo moo mooo mooo moo moooooooo, mooo

him hold it upright, without its touching the deck. Then, with the maul,
moo mooo mo moooooo, moooooo moo mooooooo moo mooo. Mooo, mooo moo mooo,

after repeatedly smiting the upper end of this iron rod, he placed the
moooo mooooooooo moooooo moo moooo moo mo mooo mooo moo, mo mooooo moo

blunted needle endwise on the top of it, and less strongly hammered
moooooo mooooo moooooo mo moo moo mo mo, moo mooo mooooooo mooooooo

that, several times, the mate still holding the rod as before. Then
mooo, moooooo moooo, moo mooo moooo moooooo moo moo mo mooooo. Mooo

going through some small strange motions with it--whether indispensable
moooo moooooo mooo moooo moooooo moooooo mooo mo--moooooo moooooooooooo

to the magnetizing of the steel, or merely intended to augment the awe
mo moo moooooooooo mo moo moooo, mo mooooo mooooooo mo moooooo moo moo

of the crew, is uncertain--he called for linen thread; and moving to the
mo moo mooo, mo moooooooo--mo mooooo moo moooo mooooo; moo mooooo mo moo

binnacle, slipped out the two reversed needles there, and horizontally
mooooooo, moooooo moo moo moo mooooooo moooooo moooo, moo mooooooooooo

suspended the sail-needle by its middle, over one of the compass-cards.
moooooooo moo mooo-mooooo mo moo mooooo, mooo moo mo moo moooooo-moooo.

At first, the steel went round and round, quivering and vibrating at
Mo moooo, moo moooo mooo moooo moo moooo, moooooooo moo moooooooo mo

either end; but at last it settled to its place, when Ahab, who had
mooooo moo; moo mo mooo mo moooooo mo moo moooo, mooo Mooo, moo moo

been intently watching for this result, stepped frankly back from the
mooo mooooooo mooooooo moo mooo mooooo, moooooo moooooo mooo mooo moo

binnacle, and pointing his stretched arm towards it, exclaimed,--"Look
mooooooo, moo mooooooo moo moooooooo moo moooooo mo, moooooooo,--"Mooo

ye, for yourselves, if Ahab be not lord of the level loadstone! The sun
mo, moo mooooooooo, mo Mooo mo moo mooo mo moo moooo moooooooo! Moo moo

is East, and that compass swears it!"
mo Mooo, moo mooo moooooo mooooo mo!"




One after another they peered in, for nothing but their own eyes could
Moo moooo moooooo mooo mooooo mo, moo moooooo moo moooo moo mooo moooo

persuade such ignorance as theirs, and one after another they slunk
mooooooo mooo moooooooo mo mooooo, moo moo moooo moooooo mooo moooo

away.
mooo.




In his fiery eyes of scorn and triumph, you then saw Ahab in all his
Mo moo moooo mooo mo moooo moo moooooo, moo mooo moo Mooo mo moo moo

fatal pride.
moooo moooo.










CHAPTER 125. The Log and Line.
MOOOOOO moo. Moo Moo moo Mooo.







While now the fated Pequod had been so long afloat this voyage, the log
Moooo moo moo moooo Mooooo moo mooo mo mooo mooooo mooo mooooo, moo moo

and line had but very seldom been in use. Owing to a confident reliance
moo mooo moo moo mooo mooooo mooo mo moo. Moooo mo m moooooooo mooooooo

upon other means of determining the vessel's place, some merchantmen,
mooo moooo moooo mo moooooooooo moo mooooo'm moooo, mooo moooooooooo,

and many whalemen, especially when cruising, wholly neglect to heave the
moo mooo mooooooo, mooooooooo mooo mooooooo, mooooo moooooo mo moooo moo

log; though at the same time, and frequently more for form's sake than
moo; mooooo mo moo mooo mooo, moo mooooooooo mooo moo mooo'm mooo mooo

anything else, regularly putting down upon the customary slate the
mooooooo mooo, moooooooo moooooo mooo mooo moo moooooooo moooo moo

course steered by the ship, as well as the presumed average rate of
mooooo moooooo mo moo mooo, mo mooo mo moo mooooooo moooooo mooo mo

progression every hour. It had been thus with the Pequod. The wooden
moooooooooo moooo mooo. Mo moo mooo mooo mooo moo Mooooo. Moo mooooo

reel and angular log attached hung, long untouched, just beneath the
mooo moo moooooo moo mooooooo mooo, mooo moooooooo, mooo moooooo moo

railing of the after bulwarks. Rains and spray had damped it; sun and
moooooo mo moo moooo mooooooo. Moooo moo moooo moo mooooo mo; moo moo

wind had warped it; all the elements had combined to rot a thing that
mooo moo mooooo mo; moo moo mooooooo moo mooooooo mo moo m moooo mooo

hung so idly. But heedless of all this, his mood seized Ahab, as he
mooo mo mooo. Moo mooooooo mo moo mooo, moo mooo mooooo Mooo, mo mo

happened to glance upon the reel, not many hours after the magnet scene,
mooooooo mo mooooo mooo moo mooo, moo mooo moooo moooo moo mooooo moooo,

and he remembered how his quadrant was no more, and recalled his frantic
moo mo mooooooooo moo moo mooooooo moo mo mooo, moo mooooooo moo moooooo

oath about the level log and line. The ship was sailing plungingly;
mooo moooo moo moooo moo moo mooo. Moo mooo moo moooooo mooooooooo;

astern the billows rolled in riots.
mooooo moo moooooo mooooo mo moooo.




"Forward, there! Heave the log!"
"Moooooo, moooo! Moooo moo moo!"




Two seamen came. The golden-hued Tahitian and the grizzly Manxman. "Take
Moo mooooo mooo. Moo mooooo-mooo Mooooooo moo moo moooooo Moooooo. "Mooo

the reel, one of ye, I'll heave."
moo mooo, moo mo mo, M'mo moooo."




They went towards the extreme stern, on the ship's lee side, where the
Mooo mooo moooooo moo moooooo moooo, mo moo mooo'm moo mooo, moooo moo

deck, with the oblique energy of the wind, was now almost dipping into
mooo, mooo moo moooooo mooooo mo moo mooo, moo moo mooooo moooooo mooo

the creamy, sidelong-rushing sea.
moo mooooo, mooooooo-moooooo moo.




The Manxman took the reel, and holding it high up, by the projecting
Moo Moooooo mooo moo mooo, moo moooooo mo mooo mo, mo moo mooooooooo

handle-ends of the spindle, round which the spool of line revolved, so
mooooo-mooo mo moo moooooo, moooo moooo moo moooo mo mooo mooooooo, mo

stood with the angular log hanging downwards, till Ahab advanced to him.
moooo mooo moo moooooo moo moooooo moooooooo, mooo Mooo mooooooo mo moo.




Ahab stood before him, and was lightly unwinding some thirty or forty
Mooo moooo mooooo moo, moo moo moooooo moooooooo mooo mooooo mo moooo

turns to form a preliminary hand-coil to toss overboard, when the old
moooo mo mooo m moooooooooo mooo-mooo mo mooo moooooooo, mooo moo moo

Manxman, who was intently eyeing both him and the line, made bold to
Moooooo, moo moo mooooooo mooooo mooo moo moo moo mooo, mooo mooo mo

speak.
moooo.




"Sir, I mistrust it; this line looks far gone, long heat and wet have
"Moo, M mooooooo mo; mooo mooo moooo moo mooo, mooo mooo moo moo mooo

spoiled it."
moooooo mo."




"'Twill hold, old gentleman. Long heat and wet, have they spoiled thee?
"'Moooo mooo, moo moooooooo. Mooo mooo moo moo, mooo mooo moooooo mooo?

Thou seem'st to hold. Or, truer perhaps, life holds thee; not thou it."
Mooo mooo'mo mo mooo. Mo, moooo moooooo, mooo moooo mooo; moo mooo mo."




"I hold the spool, sir. But just as my captain says. With these
"M mooo moo moooo, moo. Moo mooo mo mo moooooo mooo. Mooo moooo

grey hairs of mine 'tis not worth while disputing, 'specially with a
mooo moooo mo mooo 'moo moo moooo moooo moooooooo, 'moooooooo mooo m

superior, who'll ne'er confess."
mooooooo, moo'mo mo'mo moooooo."




"What's that? There now's a patched professor in Queen Nature's
"Mooo'm mooo? Moooo moo'm m moooooo moooooooo mo Moooo Mooooo'm

granite-founded College; but methinks he's too subservient. Where wert
moooooo-moooooo Moooooo; moo mooooooo mo'm moo moooooooooo. Moooo mooo

thou born?"
mooo mooo?"




"In the little rocky Isle of Man, sir."
"Mo moo mooooo moooo Mooo mo Moo, moo."




"Excellent! Thou'st hit the world by that."
"Moooooooo! Mooo'mo moo moo moooo mo mooo."




"I know not, sir, but I was born there."
"M mooo moo, moo, moo M moo mooo moooo."




"In the Isle of Man, hey? Well, the other way, it's good. Here's a man
"Mo moo Mooo mo Moo, moo? Mooo, moo moooo moo, mo'm mooo. Mooo'm m moo

from Man; a man born in once independent Man, and now unmanned of Man;
mooo Moo; m moo mooo mo mooo moooooooooo Moo, moo moo mooooooo mo Moo;

which is sucked in--by what? Up with the reel! The dead, blind wall
moooo mo mooooo mo--mo mooo? Mo mooo moo mooo! Moo mooo, moooo mooo

butts all inquiring heads at last. Up with it! So."
moooo moo moooooooo moooo mo mooo. Mo mooo mo! Mo."




The log was heaved. The loose coils rapidly straightened out in a long
Moo moo moo mooooo. Moo moooo moooo moooooo mooooooooooo moo mo m mooo

dragging line astern, and then, instantly, the reel began to whirl. In
mooooooo mooo mooooo, moo mooo, moooooooo, moo mooo moooo mo moooo. Mo

turn, jerkingly raised and lowered by the rolling billows, the towing
mooo, moooooooo mooooo moo moooooo mo moo moooooo moooooo, moo mooooo

resistance of the log caused the old reelman to stagger strangely.
mooooooooo mo moo moo mooooo moo moo moooooo mo moooooo moooooooo.




"Hold hard!"
"Mooo mooo!"




Snap! the overstrained line sagged down in one long festoon; the tugging
Mooo! moo mooooooooooo mooo mooooo mooo mo moo mooo moooooo; moo moooooo

log was gone.
moo moo mooo.




"I crush the quadrant, the thunder turns the needles, and now the mad
"M moooo moo mooooooo, moo moooooo moooo moo moooooo, moo moo moo moo

sea parts the log-line. But Ahab can mend all. Haul in here, Tahitian;
moo moooo moo moo-mooo. Moo Mooo moo mooo moo. Mooo mo mooo, Mooooooo;

reel up, Manxman. And look ye, let the carpenter make another log, and
mooo mo, Moooooo. Moo mooo mo, moo moo moooooooo mooo moooooo moo, moo

mend thou the line. See to it."
mooo mooo moo mooo. Moo mo mo."




"There he goes now; to him nothing's happened; but to me, the skewer
"Moooo mo mooo moo; mo moo moooooo'm mooooooo; moo mo mo, moo mooooo

seems loosening out of the middle of the world. Haul in, haul in,
moooo moooooooo moo mo moo mooooo mo moo moooo. Mooo mo, mooo mo,

Tahitian! These lines run whole, and whirling out: come in broken, and
Mooooooo! Moooo moooo moo moooo, moo mooooooo moo: mooo mo mooooo, moo

dragging slow. Ha, Pip? come to help; eh, Pip?"
mooooooo mooo. Mo, Moo? mooo mo mooo; mo, Moo?"




"Pip? whom call ye Pip? Pip jumped from the whale-boat. Pip's missing.
"Moo? mooo mooo mo Moo? Moo mooooo mooo moo moooo-mooo. Moo'm moooooo.

Let's see now if ye haven't fished him up here, fisherman. It drags
Moo'm moo moo mo mo moooo'm mooooo moo mo mooo, moooooooo. Mo moooo

hard; I guess he's holding on. Jerk him, Tahiti! Jerk him off; we haul
mooo; M moooo mo'm moooooo mo. Mooo moo, Mooooo! Mooo moo moo; mo mooo

in no cowards here. Ho! there's his arm just breaking water. A hatchet!
mo mo moooooo mooo. Mo! moooo'm moo moo mooo mooooooo moooo. M moooooo!

a hatchet! cut it off--we haul in no cowards here. Captain Ahab! sir,
m moooooo! moo mo moo--mo mooo mo mo moooooo mooo. Moooooo Mooo! moo,

sir! here's Pip, trying to get on board again."
moo! mooo'm Moo, mooooo mo moo mo moooo moooo."




"Peace, thou crazy loon," cried the Manxman, seizing him by the arm.
"Moooo, mooo moooo mooo," moooo moo Moooooo, moooooo moo mo moo moo.

"Away from the quarter-deck!"
"Mooo mooo moo moooooo-mooo!"




"The greater idiot ever scolds the lesser," muttered Ahab, advancing.
"Moo moooooo moooo mooo mooooo moo mooooo," mooooooo Mooo, moooooooo.

"Hands off from that holiness! Where sayest thou Pip was, boy?
"Moooo moo mooo mooo mooooooo! Moooo mooooo mooo Moo moo, moo?




"Astern there, sir, astern! Lo! lo!"
"Mooooo moooo, moo, mooooo! Mo! mo!"




"And who art thou, boy? I see not my reflection in the vacant pupils of
"Moo moo moo mooo, moo? M moo moo mo mooooooooo mo moo mooooo mooooo mo

thy eyes. Oh God! that man should be a thing for immortal souls to sieve
moo mooo. Mo Moo! mooo moo mooooo mo m moooo moo mooooooo moooo mo moooo

through! Who art thou, boy?"
moooooo! Moo moo mooo, moo?"




"Bell-boy, sir; ship's-crier; ding, dong, ding! Pip! Pip! Pip!
"Mooo-moo, moo; mooo'm-moooo; mooo, mooo, mooo! Moo! Moo! Moo!

One hundred pounds of clay reward for Pip; five feet high--looks
Moo moooooo mooooo mo mooo mooooo moo Moo; mooo mooo mooo--moooo

cowardly--quickest known by that! Ding, dong, ding! Who's seen Pip the
mooooooo--mooooooo moooo mo mooo! Mooo, mooo, mooo! Moo'm mooo Moo moo

coward?"
mooooo?"




"There can be no hearts above the snow-line. Oh, ye frozen heavens! look
"Moooo moo mo mo mooooo moooo moo mooo-mooo. Mo, mo mooooo moooooo! mooo

down here. Ye did beget this luckless child, and have abandoned him,
mooo mooo. Mo moo moooo mooo mooooooo moooo, moo mooo moooooooo moo,

ye creative libertines. Here, boy; Ahab's cabin shall be Pip's home
mo mooooooo mooooooooo. Mooo, moo; Mooo'm moooo moooo mo Moo'm mooo

henceforth, while Ahab lives. Thou touchest my inmost centre, boy; thou
mooooooooo, moooo Mooo moooo. Mooo mooooooo mo mooooo mooooo, moo; mooo

art tied to me by cords woven of my heart-strings. Come, let's down."
moo mooo mo mo mo moooo moooo mo mo moooo-moooooo. Mooo, moo'm mooo."




"What's this? here's velvet shark-skin," intently gazing at Ahab's hand,
"Mooo'm mooo? mooo'm mooooo moooo-mooo," mooooooo mooooo mo Mooo'm mooo,

and feeling it. "Ah, now, had poor Pip but felt so kind a thing as this,
moo moooooo mo. "Mo, moo, moo mooo Moo moo mooo mo mooo m moooo mo mooo,

perhaps he had ne'er been lost! This seems to me, sir, as a man-rope;
moooooo mo moo mo'mo mooo mooo! Mooo moooo mo mo, moo, mo m moo-mooo;

something that weak souls may hold by. Oh, sir, let old Perth now come
moooooooo mooo mooo moooo moo mooo mo. Mo, moo, moo moo Moooo moo mooo

and rivet these two hands together; the black one with the white, for I
moo moooo moooo moo moooo mooooooo; moo moooo moo mooo moo moooo, moo M

will not let this go."
mooo moo moo mooo mo."




"Oh, boy, nor will I thee, unless I should thereby drag thee to worse
"Mo, moo, moo mooo M mooo, mooooo M mooooo moooooo mooo mooo mo moooo

horrors than are here. Come, then, to my cabin. Lo! ye believers in
moooooo mooo moo mooo. Mooo, mooo, mo mo moooo. Mo! mo moooooooo mo

gods all goodness, and in man all ill, lo you! see the omniscient gods
mooo moo mooooooo, moo mo moo moo moo, mo moo! moo moo mooooooooo mooo

oblivious of suffering man; and man, though idiotic, and knowing not
moooooooo mo moooooooo moo; moo moo, mooooo moooooo, moo moooooo moo

what he does, yet full of the sweet things of love and gratitude. Come!
mooo mo mooo, moo mooo mo moo moooo mooooo mo mooo moo moooooooo. Mooo!

I feel prouder leading thee by thy black hand, than though I grasped an
M mooo moooooo moooooo mooo mo moo moooo mooo, mooo mooooo M moooooo mo

Emperor's!"
Moooooo'm!"




"There go two daft ones now," muttered the old Manxman. "One daft with
"Moooo mo moo mooo mooo moo," mooooooo moo moo Moooooo. "Moo mooo mooo

strength, the other daft with weakness. But here's the end of the rotten
mooooooo, moo moooo mooo mooo mooooooo. Moo mooo'm moo moo mo moo mooooo

line--all dripping, too. Mend it, eh? I think we had best have a new
mooo--moo mooooooo, moo. Mooo mo, mo? M moooo mo moo mooo mooo m moo

line altogether. I'll see Mr. Stubb about it."
mooo mooooooooo. M'mo moo Mo. Moooo moooo mo."










CHAPTER 126. The Life-Buoy.
MOOOOOO moo. Moo Mooo-Mooo.







Steering now south-eastward by Ahab's levelled steel, and her progress
Mooooooo moo moooo-mooooooo mo Mooo'm mooooooo moooo, moo moo mooooooo

solely determined by Ahab's level log and line; the Pequod held on
mooooo mooooooooo mo Mooo'm moooo moo moo mooo; moo Mooooo mooo mo

her path towards the Equator. Making so long a passage through such
moo mooo moooooo moo Moooooo. Mooooo mo mooo m moooooo moooooo mooo

unfrequented waters, descrying no ships, and ere long, sideways impelled
mooooooooooo mooooo, moooooooo mo moooo, moo moo mooo, mooooooo mooooooo

by unvarying trade winds, over waves monotonously mild; all these seemed
mo moooooooo moooo moooo, mooo moooo mooooooooooo mooo; moo moooo mooooo

the strange calm things preluding some riotous and desperate scene.
moo moooooo mooo mooooo moooooooo mooo moooooo moo moooooooo moooo.




At last, when the ship drew near to the outskirts, as it were, of the
Mo mooo, mooo moo mooo mooo mooo mo moo moooooooo, mo mo mooo, mo moo

Equatorial fishing-ground, and in the deep darkness that goes before the
Mooooooooo moooooo-mooooo, moo mo moo mooo mooooooo mooo mooo mooooo moo

dawn, was sailing by a cluster of rocky islets; the watch--then headed
mooo, moo moooooo mo m moooooo mo moooo mooooo; moo moooo--mooo mooooo

by Flask--was startled by a cry so plaintively wild and unearthly--like
mo Moooo--moo mooooooo mo m moo mo moooooooooo mooo moo moooooooo--mooo

half-articulated wailings of the ghosts of all Herod's murdered
mooo-moooooooooo mooooooo mo moo mooooo mo moo Moooo'm mooooooo

Innocents--that one and all, they started from their reveries, and for
Moooooooo--mooo moo moo moo, mooo moooooo mooo moooo mooooooo, moo moo

the space of some moments stood, or sat, or leaned all transfixedly
moo moooo mo mooo moooooo moooo, mo moo, mo mooooo moo mooooooooooo

listening, like the carved Roman slave, while that wild cry remained
moooooooo, mooo moo mooooo Moooo moooo, moooo mooo mooo moo mooooooo

within hearing. The Christian or civilized part of the crew said it was
mooooo moooooo. Moo Moooooooo mo moooooooo mooo mo moo mooo mooo mo moo

mermaids, and shuddered; but the pagan harpooneers remained unappalled.
mooooooo, moo moooooooo; moo moo moooo moooooooooo mooooooo mooooooooo.

Yet the grey Manxman--the oldest mariner of all--declared that the wild
Moo moo mooo Moooooo--moo mooooo moooooo mo moo--mooooooo mooo moo mooo

thrilling sounds that were heard, were the voices of newly drowned men
moooooooo mooooo mooo mooo moooo, mooo moo mooooo mo moooo moooooo moo

in the sea.
mo moo moo.




Below in his hammock, Ahab did not hear of this till grey dawn, when
Moooo mo moo moooooo, Mooo moo moo mooo mo mooo mooo mooo mooo, mooo

he came to the deck; it was then recounted to him by Flask, not
mo mooo mo moo mooo; mo moo mooo moooooooo mo moo mo Moooo, moo

unaccompanied with hinted dark meanings. He hollowly laughed, and thus
moooooooooooo mooo mooooo mooo mooooooo. Mo mooooooo moooooo, moo mooo

explained the wonder.
moooooooo moo mooooo.




Those rocky islands the ship had passed were the resort of great numbers
Moooo moooo moooooo moo mooo moo mooooo mooo moo mooooo mo moooo moooooo

of seals, and some young seals that had lost their dams, or some dams
mo moooo, moo mooo moooo moooo mooo moo mooo moooo mooo, mo mooo mooo

that had lost their cubs, must have risen nigh the ship and kept company
mooo moo mooo moooo mooo, mooo mooo moooo mooo moo mooo moo mooo moooooo

with her, crying and sobbing with their human sort of wail. But this
mooo moo, mooooo moo moooooo mooo moooo moooo mooo mo mooo. Moo mooo

only the more affected some of them, because most mariners cherish a
mooo moo mooo mooooooo mooo mo mooo, moooooo mooo mooooooo moooooo m

very superstitious feeling about seals, arising not only from their
mooo moooooooooooo moooooo moooo moooo, moooooo moo mooo mooo moooo

peculiar tones when in distress, but also from the human look of their
mooooooo moooo mooo mo mooooooo, moo mooo mooo moo moooo mooo mo moooo

round heads and semi-intelligent faces, seen peeringly uprising from
moooo moooo moo mooo-moooooooooo moooo, mooo moooooooo mooooooo mooo

the water alongside. In the sea, under certain circumstances, seals have
moo moooo moooooooo. Mo moo moo, moooo moooooo moooooooooooo, moooo mooo

more than once been mistaken for men.
mooo mooo mooo mooo mooooooo moo moo.




But the bodings of the crew were destined to receive a most plausible
Moo moo moooooo mo moo mooo mooo mooooooo mo moooooo m mooo moooooooo

confirmation in the fate of one of their number that morning. At
mooooooooooo mo moo mooo mo moo mo moooo mooooo mooo moooooo. Mo

sun-rise this man went from his hammock to his mast-head at the fore;
moo-mooo mooo moo mooo mooo moo moooooo mo moo mooo-mooo mo moo mooo;

and whether it was that he was not yet half waked from his sleep (for
moo moooooo mo moo mooo mo moo moo moo mooo moooo mooo moo moooo (moo

sailors sometimes go aloft in a transition state), whether it was thus
moooooo moooooooo mo moooo mo m mooooooooo moooo), moooooo mo moo mooo

with the man, there is now no telling; but, be that as it may, he
mooo moo moo, moooo mo moo mo moooooo; moo, mo mooo mo mo moo, mo

had not been long at his perch, when a cry was heard--a cry and a
moo moo mooo mooo mo moo moooo, mooo m moo moo moooo--m moo moo m

rushing--and looking up, they saw a falling phantom in the air; and
moooooo--moo moooooo mo, mooo moo m moooooo moooooo mo moo moo; moo

looking down, a little tossed heap of white bubbles in the blue of the
moooooo mooo, m mooooo mooooo mooo mo moooo moooooo mo moo mooo mo moo

sea.
moo.




The life-buoy--a long slender cask--was dropped from the stern, where it
Moo mooo-mooo--m mooo moooooo mooo--moo moooooo mooo moo moooo, moooo mo

always hung obedient to a cunning spring; but no hand rose to seize it,
mooooo mooo mooooooo mo m moooooo mooooo; moo mo mooo mooo mo moooo mo,

and the sun having long beat upon this cask it had shrunken, so that it
moo moo moo mooooo mooo mooo mooo mooo mooo mo moo mooooooo, mo mooo mo

slowly filled, and that parched wood also filled at its every pore; and
mooooo mooooo, moo mooo moooooo mooo mooo mooooo mo moo moooo mooo; moo

the studded iron-bound cask followed the sailor to the bottom, as if to
moo moooooo mooo-moooo mooo mooooooo moo mooooo mo moo mooooo, mo mo mo

yield him his pillow, though in sooth but a hard one.
moooo moo moo mooooo, mooooo mo moooo moo m mooo moo.




And thus the first man of the Pequod that mounted the mast to look out
Moo mooo moo moooo moo mo moo Mooooo mooo moooooo moo mooo mo mooo moo

for the White Whale, on the White Whale's own peculiar ground; that man
moo moo Moooo Moooo, mo moo Moooo Moooo'm moo mooooooo mooooo; mooo moo

was swallowed up in the deep. But few, perhaps, thought of that at the
moo moooooooo mo mo moo mooo. Moo moo, moooooo, moooooo mo mooo mo moo

time. Indeed, in some sort, they were not grieved at this event, at
mooo. Mooooo, mo mooo mooo, mooo mooo moo moooooo mo mooo moooo, mo

least as a portent; for they regarded it, not as a foreshadowing of evil
moooo mo m moooooo; moo mooo mooooooo mo, moo mo m moooooooooooo mo mooo

in the future, but as the fulfilment of an evil already presaged. They
mo moo mooooo, moo mo moo mooooooooo mo mo mooo moooooo mooooooo. Mooo

declared that now they knew the reason of those wild shrieks they had
mooooooo mooo moo mooo mooo moo mooooo mo moooo mooo moooooo mooo moo

heard the night before. But again the old Manxman said nay.
moooo moo moooo mooooo. Moo moooo moo moo Moooooo mooo moo.




The lost life-buoy was now to be replaced; Starbuck was directed to see
Moo mooo mooo-mooo moo moo mo mo mooooooo; Mooooooo moo mooooooo mo moo

to it; but as no cask of sufficient lightness could be found, and as
mo mo; moo mo mo mooo mo mooooooooo moooooooo moooo mo moooo, moo mo

in the feverish eagerness of what seemed the approaching crisis of
mo moo mooooooo moooooooo mo mooo mooooo moo moooooooooo mooooo mo

the voyage, all hands were impatient of any toil but what was directly
moo mooooo, moo moooo mooo moooooooo mo moo mooo moo mooo moo mooooooo

connected with its final end, whatever that might prove to be;
moooooooo mooo moo moooo moo, mooooooo mooo moooo moooo mo mo;

therefore, they were going to leave the ship's stern unprovided with a
moooooooo, mooo mooo moooo mo moooo moo mooo'm moooo mooooooooo mooo m

buoy, when by certain strange signs and inuendoes Queequeg hinted a hint
mooo, mooo mo moooooo moooooo moooo moo moooooooo Mooooooo mooooo m mooo

concerning his coffin.
mooooooooo moo mooooo.




"A life-buoy of a coffin!" cried Starbuck, starting.
"M mooo-mooo mo m mooooo!" moooo Mooooooo, mooooooo.




"Rather queer, that, I should say," said Stubb.
"Mooooo moooo, mooo, M mooooo moo," mooo Moooo.




"It will make a good enough one," said Flask, "the carpenter here can
"Mo mooo mooo m mooo mooooo moo," mooo Moooo, "moo moooooooo mooo moo

arrange it easily."
moooooo mo mooooo."




"Bring it up; there's nothing else for it," said Starbuck, after a
"Moooo mo mo; moooo'm moooooo mooo moo mo," mooo Mooooooo, moooo m

melancholy pause. "Rig it, carpenter; do not look at me so--the coffin,
mooooooooo moooo. "Moo mo, moooooooo; mo moo mooo mo mo mo--moo mooooo,

I mean. Dost thou hear me? Rig it."
M mooo. Mooo mooo mooo mo? Moo mo."




"And shall I nail down the lid, sir?" moving his hand as with a hammer.
"Moo moooo M mooo mooo moo moo, moo?" mooooo moo mooo mo mooo m mooooo.




"Aye."
"Moo."




"And shall I caulk the seams, sir?" moving his hand as with a
"Moo moooo M moooo moo moooo, moo?" mooooo moo mooo mo mooo m

caulking-iron.
mooooooo-mooo.




"Aye."
"Moo."




"And shall I then pay over the same with pitch, sir?" moving his hand as
"Moo moooo M mooo moo mooo moo mooo mooo moooo, moo?" mooooo moo mooo mo

with a pitch-pot.
mooo m moooo-moo.




"Away! what possesses thee to this? Make a life-buoy of the coffin, and
"Mooo! mooo moooooooo mooo mo mooo? Mooo m mooo-mooo mo moo mooooo, moo

no more.--Mr. Stubb, Mr. Flask, come forward with me."
mo mooo.--Mo. Moooo, Mo. Moooo, mooo moooooo mooo mo."




"He goes off in a huff. The whole he can endure; at the parts he baulks.
"Mo mooo moo mo m mooo. Moo moooo mo moo mooooo; mo moo moooo mo mooooo.

Now I don't like this. I make a leg for Captain Ahab, and he wears it
Moo M moo'm mooo mooo. M mooo m moo moo Moooooo Mooo, moo mo moooo mo

like a gentleman; but I make a bandbox for Queequeg, and he won't put
mooo m moooooooo; moo M mooo m moooooo moo Mooooooo, moo mo moo'm moo

his head into it. Are all my pains to go for nothing with that coffin?
moo mooo mooo mo. Moo moo mo moooo mo mo moo moooooo mooo mooo mooooo?

And now I'm ordered to make a life-buoy of it. It's like turning an old
Moo moo M'm moooooo mo mooo m mooo-mooo mo mo. Mo'm mooo moooooo mo moo

coat; going to bring the flesh on the other side now. I don't like this
mooo; moooo mo moooo moo moooo mo moo moooo mooo moo. M moo'm mooo mooo

cobbling sort of business--I don't like it at all; it's undignified;
mooooooo mooo mo mooooooo--M moo'm mooo mo mo moo; mo'm moooooooooo;

it's not my place. Let tinkers' brats do tinkerings; we are their
mo'm moo mo moooo. Moo moooooo' moooo mo mooooooooo; mo moo moooo

betters. I like to take in hand none but clean, virgin, fair-and-square
moooooo. M mooo mo mooo mo mooo mooo moo moooo, mooooo, mooo-moo-mooooo

mathematical jobs, something that regularly begins at the beginning, and
mooooooooooo mooo, moooooooo mooo moooooooo mooooo mo moo moooooooo, moo

is at the middle when midway, and comes to an end at the conclusion; not
mo mo moo mooooo mooo mooooo, moo moooo mo mo moo mo moo mooooooooo; moo

a cobbler's job, that's at an end in the middle, and at the beginning at
m moooooo'm moo, mooo'm mo mo moo mo moo mooooo, moo mo moo moooooooo mo

the end. It's the old woman's tricks to be giving cobbling jobs. Lord!
moo moo. Mo'm moo moo moooo'm mooooo mo mo mooooo mooooooo mooo. Mooo!

what an affection all old women have for tinkers. I know an old woman of
mooo mo moooooooo moo moo moooo mooo moo moooooo. M mooo mo moo moooo mo

sixty-five who ran away with a bald-headed young tinker once. And that's
moooo-mooo moo moo mooo mooo m mooo-mooooo moooo mooooo mooo. Moo mooo'm

the reason I never would work for lonely widow old women ashore, when
moo mooooo M moooo moooo mooo moo mooooo moooo moo moooo mooooo, mooo

I kept my job-shop in the Vineyard; they might have taken it into their
M mooo mo moo-mooo mo moo Mooooooo; mooo moooo mooo moooo mo mooo moooo

lonely old heads to run off with me. But heigh-ho! there are no caps at
mooooo moo moooo mo moo moo mooo mo. Moo moooo-mo! moooo moo mo mooo mo

sea but snow-caps. Let me see. Nail down the lid; caulk the seams; pay
moo moo mooo-mooo. Moo mo moo. Mooo mooo moo moo; moooo moo moooo; moo

over the same with pitch; batten them down tight, and hang it with the
mooo moo mooo mooo moooo; mooooo mooo mooo moooo, moo mooo mo mooo moo

snap-spring over the ship's stern. Were ever such things done before
mooo-mooooo mooo moo mooo'm moooo. Mooo mooo mooo mooooo mooo mooooo

with a coffin? Some superstitious old carpenters, now, would be tied
mooo m mooooo? Mooo moooooooooooo moo mooooooooo, moo, moooo mo mooo

up in the rigging, ere they would do the job. But I'm made of knotty
mo mo moo moooooo, moo mooo moooo mo moo moo. Moo M'm mooo mo mooooo

Aroostook hemlock; I don't budge. Cruppered with a coffin! Sailing
Moooooooo moooooo; M moo'm moooo. Moooooooo mooo m mooooo! Moooooo

about with a grave-yard tray! But never mind. We workers in woods make
moooo mooo m moooo-mooo mooo! Moo moooo mooo. Mo moooooo mo moooo mooo

bridal-bedsteads and card-tables, as well as coffins and hearses. We
mooooo-moooooooo moo mooo-mooooo, mo mooo mo moooooo moo moooooo. Mo

work by the month, or by the job, or by the profit; not for us to ask
mooo mo moo moooo, mo mo moo moo, mo mo moo mooooo; moo moo mo mo moo

the why and wherefore of our work, unless it be too confounded cobbling,
moo moo moo moooooooo mo moo mooo, mooooo mo mo moo mooooooooo mooooooo,

and then we stash it if we can. Hem! I'll do the job, now, tenderly.
moo mooo mo moooo mo mo mo moo. Moo! M'mo mo moo moo, moo, mooooooo.

I'll have me--let's see--how many in the ship's company, all told? But
M'mo mooo mo--moo'm moo--moo mooo mo moo mooo'm moooooo, moo mooo? Moo

I've forgotten. Any way, I'll have me thirty separate, Turk's-headed
M'mo moooooooo. Moo moo, M'mo mooo mo mooooo mooooooo, Mooo'm-mooooo

life-lines, each three feet long hanging all round to the coffin. Then,
mooo-moooo, mooo moooo mooo mooo moooooo moo moooo mo moo mooooo. Mooo,

if the hull go down, there'll be thirty lively fellows all fighting for
mo moo mooo mo mooo, moooo'mo mo mooooo mooooo moooooo moo mooooooo moo

one coffin, a sight not seen very often beneath the sun! Come hammer,
moo mooooo, m moooo moo mooo mooo moooo moooooo moo moo! Mooo mooooo,

caulking-iron, pitch-pot, and marling-spike! Let's to it."
mooooooo-mooo, moooo-moo, moo moooooo-moooo! Moo'm mo mo."










CHAPTER 127. The Deck.
MOOOOOO moo. Moo Mooo.







THE COFFIN LAID UPON TWO LINE-TUBS, BETWEEN THE VICE-BENCH AND THE OPEN
MOO MOOOOO MOOO MOOO MOO MOOO-MOOO, MOOOOOO MOO MOOO-MOOOO MOO MOO MOOO

HATCHWAY; THE CARPENTER CAULKING ITS SEAMS; THE STRING OF TWISTED OAKUM
MOOOOOOO; MOO MOOOOOOOO MOOOOOOO MOO MOOOO; MOO MOOOOO MO MOOOOOO MOOOO

SLOWLY UNWINDING FROM A LARGE ROLL OF IT PLACED IN THE BOSOM OF
MOOOOO MOOOOOOOO MOOO M MOOOO MOOO MO MO MOOOOO MO MOO MOOOO MO

HIS FROCK.--AHAB COMES SLOWLY FROM THE CABIN-GANGWAY, AND HEARS PIP
MOO MOOOO.--MOOO MOOOO MOOOOO MOOO MOO MOOOO-MOOOOOO, MOO MOOOO MOO

FOLLOWING HIM.
MOOOOOOOO MOO.







"Back, lad; I will be with ye again presently. He goes! Not this hand
"Mooo, moo; M mooo mo mooo mo moooo moooooooo. Mo mooo! Moo mooo mooo

complies with my humor more genially than that boy.--Middle aisle of a
mooooooo mooo mo moooo mooo mooooooo mooo mooo moo.--Mooooo moooo mo m

church! What's here?"
mooooo! Mooo'm mooo?"




"Life-buoy, sir. Mr. Starbuck's orders. Oh, look, sir! Beware the
"Mooo-mooo, moo. Mo. Mooooooo'm mooooo. Mo, mooo, moo! Mooooo moo

hatchway!"
mooooooo!"




"Thank ye, man. Thy coffin lies handy to the vault."
"Moooo mo, moo. Moo mooooo mooo moooo mo moo moooo."




"Sir? The hatchway? oh! So it does, sir, so it does."
"Moo? Moo mooooooo? mo! Mo mo mooo, moo, mo mo mooo."




"Art not thou the leg-maker? Look, did not this stump come from thy
"Moo moo mooo moo moo-moooo? Mooo, moo moo mooo moooo mooo mooo moo

shop?"
mooo?"




"I believe it did, sir; does the ferrule stand, sir?"
"M moooooo mo moo, moo; mooo moo moooooo moooo, moo?"




"Well enough. But art thou not also the undertaker?"
"Mooo mooooo. Moo moo mooo moo mooo moo mooooooooo?"




"Aye, sir; I patched up this thing here as a coffin for Queequeg; but
"Moo, moo; M moooooo mo mooo moooo mooo mo m mooooo moo Mooooooo; moo

they've set me now to turning it into something else."
mooo'mo moo mo moo mo moooooo mo mooo moooooooo mooo."




"Then tell me; art thou not an arrant, all-grasping, intermeddling,
"Mooo mooo mo; moo mooo moo mo mooooo, moo-mooooooo, moooooooooooo,

monopolising, heathenish old scamp, to be one day making legs, and the
mooooooooooo, mooooooooo moo moooo, mo mo moo moo mooooo mooo, moo moo

next day coffins to clap them in, and yet again life-buoys out of those
mooo moo moooooo mo mooo mooo mo, moo moo moooo mooo-moooo moo mo moooo

same coffins? Thou art as unprincipled as the gods, and as much of a
mooo moooooo? Mooo moo mo mooooooooooo mo moo mooo, moo mo mooo mo m

jack-of-all-trades."
mooo-mo-moo-mooooo."




"But I do not mean anything, sir. I do as I do."
"Moo M mo moo mooo mooooooo, moo. M mo mo M mo."




"The gods again. Hark ye, dost thou not ever sing working about a
"Moo mooo moooo. Mooo mo, mooo mooo moo mooo mooo moooooo moooo m

coffin? The Titans, they say, hummed snatches when chipping out the
mooooo? Moo Mooooo, mooo moo, mooooo mooooooo mooo mooooooo moo moo

craters for volcanoes; and the grave-digger in the play sings, spade in
moooooo moo moooooooo; moo moo moooo-mooooo mo moo mooo moooo, moooo mo

hand. Dost thou never?"
mooo. Mooo mooo moooo?"




"Sing, sir? Do I sing? Oh, I'm indifferent enough, sir, for that; but
"Mooo, moo? Mo M mooo? Mo, M'm moooooooooo mooooo, moo, moo mooo; moo

the reason why the grave-digger made music must have been because there
moo mooooo moo moo moooo-mooooo mooo moooo mooo mooo mooo moooooo moooo

was none in his spade, sir. But the caulking mallet is full of it. Hark
moo mooo mo moo moooo, moo. Moo moo mooooooo mooooo mo mooo mo mo. Mooo

to it."
mo mo."




"Aye, and that's because the lid there's a sounding-board; and what in
"Moo, moo mooo'm moooooo moo moo moooo'm m mooooooo-moooo; moo mooo mo

all things makes the sounding-board is this--there's naught beneath. And
moo mooooo moooo moo mooooooo-moooo mo mooo--moooo'm mooooo moooooo. Moo

yet, a coffin with a body in it rings pretty much the same, Carpenter.
moo, m mooooo mooo m mooo mo mo moooo mooooo mooo moo mooo, Moooooooo.

Hast thou ever helped carry a bier, and heard the coffin knock against
Mooo mooo mooo mooooo moooo m mooo, moo moooo moo mooooo moooo moooooo

the churchyard gate, going in?
moo mooooooooo mooo, moooo mo?




"Faith, sir, I've--"
"Moooo, moo, M'mo--"




"Faith? What's that?"
"Moooo? Mooo'm mooo?"




"Why, faith, sir, it's only a sort of exclamation-like--that's all,
"Moo, moooo, moo, mo'm mooo m mooo mo moooooooooo-mooo--mooo'm moo,

sir."
moo."




"Um, um; go on."
"Mo, mo; mo mo."




"I was about to say, sir, that--"
"M moo moooo mo moo, moo, mooo--"




"Art thou a silk-worm? Dost thou spin thy own shroud out of thyself?
"Moo mooo m mooo-mooo? Mooo mooo mooo moo moo mooooo moo mo moooooo?

Look at thy bosom! Despatch! and get these traps out of sight."
Mooo mo moo moooo! Mooooooo! moo moo moooo moooo moo mo moooo."




"He goes aft. That was sudden, now; but squalls come sudden in hot
"Mo mooo moo. Mooo moo mooooo, moo; moo moooooo mooo mooooo mo moo

latitudes. I've heard that the Isle of Albemarle, one of the Gallipagos,
moooooooo. M'mo moooo mooo moo Mooo mo Moooooooo, moo mo moo Mooooooooo,

is cut by the Equator right in the middle. Seems to me some sort of
mo moo mo moo Moooooo moooo mo moo mooooo. Moooo mo mo mooo mooo mo

Equator cuts yon old man, too, right in his middle. He's always under
Moooooo mooo moo moo moo, moo, moooo mo moo mooooo. Mo'm mooooo moooo

the Line--fiery hot, I tell ye! He's looking this way--come, oakum;
moo Mooo--moooo moo, M mooo mo! Mo'm moooooo mooo moo--mooo, moooo;

quick. Here we go again. This wooden mallet is the cork, and I'm the
moooo. Mooo mo mo moooo. Mooo mooooo mooooo mo moo mooo, moo M'm moo

professor of musical glasses--tap, tap!"
moooooooo mo moooooo moooooo--moo, moo!"




(AHAB TO HIMSELF.)
(MOOO MO MOOOOOO.)




"There's a sight! There's a sound! The grey-headed woodpecker tapping
"Moooo'm m moooo! Moooo'm m moooo! Moo mooo-mooooo mooooooooo moooooo

the hollow tree! Blind and dumb might well be envied now. See! that
moo mooooo mooo! Moooo moo mooo moooo mooo mo mooooo moo. Moo! mooo

thing rests on two line-tubs, full of tow-lines. A most malicious wag,
moooo moooo mo moo mooo-mooo, mooo mo moo-moooo. M mooo moooooooo moo,

that fellow. Rat-tat! So man's seconds tick! Oh! how immaterial are all
mooo mooooo. Moo-moo! Mo moo'm moooooo mooo! Mo! moo mooooooooo moo moo

materials! What things real are there, but imponderable thoughts? Here
moooooooo! Mooo mooooo mooo moo moooo, moo mooooooooooo mooooooo? Mooo

now's the very dreaded symbol of grim death, by a mere hap, made
moo'm moo mooo moooooo mooooo mo mooo moooo, mo m mooo moo, mooo

the expressive sign of the help and hope of most endangered life.
moo mooooooooo mooo mo moo mooo moo mooo mo mooo mooooooooo mooo.

A life-buoy of a coffin! Does it go further? Can it be that in some
M mooo-mooo mo m mooooo! Mooo mo mo moooooo? Moo mo mo mooo mo mooo

spiritual sense the coffin is, after all, but an immortality-preserver!
moooooooo moooo moo mooooo mo, moooo moo, moo mo moooooooooo-moooooooo!

I'll think of that. But no. So far gone am I in the dark side of earth,
M'mo moooo mo mooo. Moo mo. Mo moo mooo mo M mo moo mooo mooo mo moooo,

that its other side, the theoretic bright one, seems but uncertain
mooo moo moooo mooo, moo moooooooo mooooo moo, moooo moo moooooooo

twilight to me. Will ye never have done, Carpenter, with that accursed
mooooooo mo mo. Mooo mo moooo mooo mooo, Moooooooo, mooo mooo mooooooo

sound? I go below; let me not see that thing here when I return
moooo? M mo moooo; moo mo moo moo mooo moooo mooo mooo M mooooo

again. Now, then, Pip, we'll talk this over; I do suck most wondrous
moooo. Moo, mooo, Moo, mo'mo mooo mooo mooo; M mo mooo mooo mooooooo

philosophies from thee! Some unknown conduits from the unknown worlds
mooooooooooo mooo mooo! Mooo moooooo mooooooo mooo moo moooooo mooooo

must empty into thee!"
mooo moooo mooo mooo!"










CHAPTER 128. The Pequod Meets The Rachel.
MOOOOOO moo. Moo Mooooo Moooo Moo Mooooo.







Next day, a large ship, the Rachel, was descried, bearing directly down
Mooo moo, m moooo mooo, moo Mooooo, moo mooooooo, moooooo mooooooo mooo

upon the Pequod, all her spars thickly clustering with men. At the
mooo moo Mooooo, moo moo moooo moooooo mooooooooo mooo moo. Mo moo

time the Pequod was making good speed through the water; but as the
mooo moo Mooooo moo mooooo mooo moooo moooooo moo moooo; moo mo moo

broad-winged windward stranger shot nigh to her, the boastful sails all
moooo-mooooo mooooooo mooooooo mooo mooo mo moo, moo mooooooo moooo moo

fell together as blank bladders that are burst, and all life fled from
mooo mooooooo mo moooo mooooooo mooo moo moooo, moo moo mooo mooo mooo

the smitten hull.
moo moooooo mooo.




"Bad news; she brings bad news," muttered the old Manxman. But ere her
"Moo mooo; moo mooooo moo mooo," mooooooo moo moo Moooooo. Moo moo moo

commander, who, with trumpet to mouth, stood up in his boat; ere he
moooooooo, moo, mooo moooooo mo moooo, moooo mo mo moo mooo; moo mo

could hopefully hail, Ahab's voice was heard.
moooo moooooooo mooo, Mooo'm moooo moo moooo.




"Hast seen the White Whale?"
"Mooo mooo moo Moooo Moooo?"




"Aye, yesterday. Have ye seen a whale-boat adrift?"
"Moo, moooooooo. Mooo mo mooo m moooo-mooo mooooo?"




Throttling his joy, Ahab negatively answered this unexpected question;
Mooooooooo moo moo, Mooo mooooooooo mooooooo mooo mooooooooo mooooooo;

and would then have fain boarded the stranger, when the stranger captain
moo moooo mooo mooo mooo moooooo moo mooooooo, mooo moo mooooooo moooooo

himself, having stopped his vessel's way, was seen descending her
moooooo, mooooo moooooo moo mooooo'm moo, moo mooo mooooooooo moo

side. A few keen pulls, and his boat-hook soon clinched the Pequod's
mooo. M moo mooo moooo, moo moo mooo-mooo mooo mooooooo moo Mooooo'm

main-chains, and he sprang to the deck. Immediately he was recognised by
mooo-mooooo, moo mo mooooo mo moo mooo. Moooooooooo mo moo mooooooooo mo

Ahab for a Nantucketer he knew. But no formal salutation was exchanged.
Mooo moo m Moooooooooo mo mooo. Moo mo mooooo mooooooooo moo moooooooo.




"Where was he?--not killed!--not killed!" cried Ahab, closely advancing.
"Moooo moo mo?--moo mooooo!--moo mooooo!" moooo Mooo, moooooo moooooooo.

"How was it?"
"Moo moo mo?"




It seemed that somewhat late on the afternoon of the day previous, while
Mo mooooo mooo mooooooo mooo mo moo moooooooo mo moo moo mooooooo, moooo

three of the stranger's boats were engaged with a shoal of whales, which
moooo mo moo mooooooo'm moooo mooo moooooo mooo m moooo mo mooooo, moooo

had led them some four or five miles from the ship; and while they were
moo moo mooo mooo mooo mo mooo moooo mooo moo mooo; moo moooo mooo mooo

yet in swift chase to windward, the white hump and head of Moby Dick had
moo mo moooo moooo mo mooooooo, moo moooo mooo moo mooo mo Mooo Mooo moo

suddenly loomed up out of the water, not very far to leeward; whereupon,
mooooooo mooooo mo moo mo moo moooo, moo mooo moo mo moooooo; moooooooo,

the fourth rigged boat--a reserved one--had been instantly lowered in
moo mooooo mooooo mooo--m mooooooo moo--moo mooo moooooooo moooooo mo

chase. After a keen sail before the wind, this fourth boat--the swiftest
moooo. Moooo m mooo mooo mooooo moo mooo, mooo mooooo mooo--moo mooooooo

keeled of all--seemed to have succeeded in fastening--at least, as
mooooo mo moo--mooooo mo mooo moooooooo mo moooooooo--mo moooo, mo

well as the man at the mast-head could tell anything about it. In the
mooo mo moo moo mo moo mooo-mooo moooo mooo mooooooo moooo mo. Mo moo

distance he saw the diminished dotted boat; and then a swift gleam
mooooooo mo moo moo mooooooooo mooooo mooo; moo mooo m moooo moooo

of bubbling white water; and after that nothing more; whence it was
mo mooooooo moooo moooo; moo moooo mooo moooooo mooo; mooooo mo moo

concluded that the stricken whale must have indefinitely run away with
moooooooo mooo moo mooooooo moooo mooo mooo mooooooooooo moo mooo mooo

his pursuers, as often happens. There was some apprehension, but no
moo mooooooo, mo moooo moooooo. Moooo moo mooo mooooooooooo, moo mo

positive alarm, as yet. The recall signals were placed in the rigging;
mooooooo moooo, mo moo. Moo mooooo moooooo mooo mooooo mo moo moooooo;

darkness came on; and forced to pick up her three far to windward
mooooooo mooo mo; moo mooooo mo mooo mo moo moooo moo mo mooooooo

boats--ere going in quest of the fourth one in the precisely opposite
moooo--moo moooo mo moooo mo moo mooooo moo mo moo moooooooo mooooooo

direction--the ship had not only been necessitated to leave that boat to
moooooooo--moo mooo moo moo mooo mooo mooooooooooo mo moooo mooo mooo mo

its fate till near midnight, but, for the time, to increase her distance
moo mooo mooo mooo mooooooo, moo, moo moo mooo, mo mooooooo moo mooooooo

from it. But the rest of her crew being at last safe aboard, she crowded
mooo mo. Moo moo mooo mo moo mooo moooo mo mooo mooo mooooo, moo moooooo

all sail--stunsail on stunsail--after the missing boat; kindling a fire
moo mooo--mooooooo mo mooooooo--moooo moo moooooo mooo; mooooooo m mooo

in her try-pots for a beacon; and every other man aloft on the look-out.
mo moo moo-mooo moo m mooooo; moo moooo moooo moo moooo mo moo mooo-moo.

But though when she had thus sailed a sufficient distance to gain the
Moo mooooo mooo moo moo mooo mooooo m mooooooooo mooooooo mo mooo moo

presumed place of the absent ones when last seen; though she then
mooooooo moooo mo moo mooooo mooo mooo mooo mooo; mooooo moo mooo

paused to lower her spare boats to pull all around her; and not finding
mooooo mo moooo moo moooo moooo mo mooo moo mooooo moo; moo moo moooooo

anything, had again dashed on; again paused, and lowered her boats; and
mooooooo, moo moooo mooooo mo; moooo mooooo, moo moooooo moo moooo; moo

though she had thus continued doing till daylight; yet not the least
mooooo moo moo mooo moooooooo moooo mooo mooooooo; moo moo moo moooo

glimpse of the missing keel had been seen.
moooooo mo moo moooooo mooo moo mooo mooo.




The story told, the stranger Captain immediately went on to reveal his
Moo moooo mooo, moo mooooooo Moooooo moooooooooo mooo mo mo mooooo moo

object in boarding the Pequod. He desired that ship to unite with his
mooooo mo mooooooo moo Mooooo. Mo moooooo mooo mooo mo moooo mooo moo

own in the search; by sailing over the sea some four or five miles
moo mo moo mooooo; mo moooooo mooo moo moo mooo mooo mo mooo moooo

apart, on parallel lines, and so sweeping a double horizon, as it were.
moooo, mo mooooooo moooo, moo mo mooooooo m mooooo moooooo, mo mo mooo.




"I will wager something now," whispered Stubb to Flask, "that some one
"M mooo moooo moooooooo moo," moooooooo Moooo mo Moooo, "mooo mooo moo

in that missing boat wore off that Captain's best coat; mayhap, his
mo mooo moooooo mooo mooo moo mooo Moooooo'm mooo mooo; mooooo, moo

watch--he's so cursed anxious to get it back. Who ever heard of two
moooo--mo'm mo mooooo moooooo mo moo mo mooo. Moo mooo moooo mo moo

pious whale-ships cruising after one missing whale-boat in the height of
moooo moooo-moooo mooooooo moooo moo moooooo moooo-mooo mo moo mooooo mo

the whaling season? See, Flask, only see how pale he looks--pale in the
moo moooooo mooooo? Moo, Moooo, mooo moo moo mooo mo moooo--mooo mo moo

very buttons of his eyes--look--it wasn't the coat--it must have been
mooo moooooo mo moo mooo--mooo--mo mooo'm moo mooo--mo mooo mooo mooo

the--"
moo--"




"My boy, my own boy is among them. For God's sake--I beg, I
"Mo moo, mo moo moo mo moooo mooo. Moo Moo'm mooo--M moo, M

conjure"--here exclaimed the stranger Captain to Ahab, who thus far
moooooo"--mooo moooooooo moo mooooooo Moooooo mo Mooo, moo mooo moo

had but icily received his petition. "For eight-and-forty hours let me
moo moo moooo mooooooo moo mooooooo. "Moo moooo-moo-moooo moooo moo mo

charter your ship--I will gladly pay for it, and roundly pay for it--if
moooooo mooo mooo--M mooo mooooo moo moo mo, moo moooooo moo moo mo--mo

there be no other way--for eight-and-forty hours only--only that--you
moooo mo mo moooo moo--moo moooo-moo-moooo moooo mooo--mooo mooo--moo

must, oh, you must, and you SHALL do this thing."
mooo, mo, moo mooo, moo moo MOOOO mo mooo moooo."




"His son!" cried Stubb, "oh, it's his son he's lost! I take back the
"Moo moo!" moooo Moooo, "mo, mo'm moo moo mo'm mooo! M mooo mooo moo

coat and watch--what says Ahab? We must save that boy."
mooo moo moooo--mooo mooo Mooo? Mo mooo mooo mooo moo."




"He's drowned with the rest on 'em, last night," said the old Manx
"Mo'm moooooo mooo moo mooo mo 'mo, mooo moooo," mooo moo moo Mooo

sailor standing behind them; "I heard; all of ye heard their spirits."
mooooo mooooooo mooooo mooo; "M moooo; moo mo mo moooo moooo moooooo."




Now, as it shortly turned out, what made this incident of the Rachel's
Moo, mo mo moooooo mooooo moo, mooo mooo mooo mooooooo mo moo Mooooo'm

the more melancholy, was the circumstance, that not only was one of the
moo mooo mooooooooo, moo moo mooooooooooo, mooo moo mooo moo moo mo moo

Captain's sons among the number of the missing boat's crew; but among
Moooooo'm mooo moooo moo mooooo mo moo moooooo mooo'm mooo; moo moooo

the number of the other boat's crews, at the same time, but on the other
moo mooooo mo moo moooo mooo'm moooo, mo moo mooo mooo, moo mo moo moooo

hand, separated from the ship during the dark vicissitudes of the chase,
mooo, moooooooo mooo moo mooo mooooo moo mooo mooooooooooo mo moo moooo,

there had been still another son; as that for a time, the wretched
moooo moo mooo moooo moooooo moo; mo mooo moo m mooo, moo mooooooo

father was plunged to the bottom of the cruellest perplexity; which
mooooo moo moooooo mo moo mooooo mo moo moooooooo mooooooooo; moooo

was only solved for him by his chief mate's instinctively adopting the
moo mooo mooooo moo moo mo moo moooo mooo'm moooooooooooo mooooooo moo

ordinary procedure of a whale-ship in such emergencies, that is, when
mooooooo moooooooo mo m moooo-mooo mo mooo moooooooooo, mooo mo, mooo

placed between jeopardized but divided boats, always to pick up the
mooooo moooooo moooooooooo moo moooooo moooo, mooooo mo mooo mo moo

majority first. But the captain, for some unknown constitutional reason,
mooooooo moooo. Moo moo moooooo, moo mooo moooooo mooooooooooooo mooooo,

had refrained from mentioning all this, and not till forced to it by
moo moooooooo mooo mooooooooo moo mooo, moo moo mooo mooooo mo mo mo

Ahab's iciness did he allude to his one yet missing boy; a little lad,
Mooo'm moooooo moo mo mooooo mo moo moo moo moooooo moo; m mooooo moo,

but twelve years old, whose father with the earnest but unmisgiving
moo mooooo moooo moo, moooo mooooo mooo moo moooooo moo moooooooooo

hardihood of a Nantucketer's paternal love, had thus early sought to
moooooooo mo m Moooooooooo'm mooooooo mooo, moo mooo moooo mooooo mo

initiate him in the perils and wonders of a vocation almost immemorially
mooooooo moo mo moo mooooo moo moooooo mo m mooooooo mooooo mooooooooooo

the destiny of all his race. Nor does it unfrequently occur, that
moo moooooo mo moo moo mooo. Moo mooo mo mooooooooooo moooo, mooo

Nantucket captains will send a son of such tender age away from them,
Moooooooo mooooooo mooo mooo m moo mo mooo mooooo moo mooo mooo mooo,

for a protracted three or four years' voyage in some other ship than
moo m mooooooooo moooo mo mooo moooo' mooooo mo mooo moooo mooo mooo

their own; so that their first knowledge of a whaleman's career shall
moooo moo; mo mooo moooo moooo moooooooo mo m mooooooo'm mooooo moooo

be unenervated by any chance display of a father's natural but untimely
mo moooooooooo mo moo mooooo moooooo mo m mooooo'm moooooo moo mooooooo

partiality, or undue apprehensiveness and concern.
mooooooooo, mo moooo mooooooooooooooo moo moooooo.




Meantime, now the stranger was still beseeching his poor boon of Ahab;
Mooooooo, moo moo mooooooo moo moooo mooooooooo moo mooo mooo mo Mooo;

and Ahab still stood like an anvil, receiving every shock, but without
moo Mooo moooo moooo mooo mo moooo, moooooooo moooo moooo, moo moooooo

the least quivering of his own.
moo moooo moooooooo mo moo moo.




"I will not go," said the stranger, "till you say aye to me. Do to me
"M mooo moo mo," mooo moo mooooooo, "mooo moo moo moo mo mo. Mo mo mo

as you would have me do to you in the like case. For YOU too have a boy,
mo moo moooo mooo mo mo mo moo mo moo mooo mooo. Moo MOO moo mooo m moo,

Captain Ahab--though but a child, and nestling safely at home now--a
Moooooo Mooo--mooooo moo m moooo, moo mooooooo mooooo mo mooo moo--m

child of your old age too--Yes, yes, you relent; I see it--run, run,
moooo mo mooo moo moo moo--Moo, moo, moo mooooo; M moo mo--moo, moo,

men, now, and stand by to square in the yards."
moo, moo, moo moooo mo mo mooooo mo moo moooo."




"Avast," cried Ahab--"touch not a rope-yarn"; then in a voice that
"Moooo," moooo Mooo--"moooo moo m mooo-mooo"; mooo mo m moooo mooo

prolongingly moulded every word--"Captain Gardiner, I will not do it.
mooooooooooo moooooo moooo mooo--"Moooooo Mooooooo, M mooo moo mo mo.

Even now I lose time. Good-bye, good-bye. God bless ye, man, and may I
Mooo moo M mooo mooo. Mooo-moo, mooo-moo. Moo moooo mo, moo, moo moo M

forgive myself, but I must go. Mr. Starbuck, look at the binnacle watch,
moooooo mooooo, moo M mooo mo. Mo. Mooooooo, mooo mo moo mooooooo moooo,

and in three minutes from this present instant warn off all strangers:
moo mo moooo moooooo mooo mooo moooooo moooooo mooo moo moo moooooooo:

then brace forward again, and let the ship sail as before."
mooo moooo moooooo moooo, moo moo moo mooo mooo mo mooooo."




Hurriedly turning, with averted face, he descended into his cabin,
Moooooooo moooooo, mooo moooooo mooo, mo moooooooo mooo moo moooo,

leaving the strange captain transfixed at this unconditional and utter
moooooo moo moooooo moooooo mooooooooo mo mooo moooooooooooo moo moooo

rejection of his so earnest suit. But starting from his enchantment,
moooooooo mo moo mo moooooo mooo. Moo mooooooo mooo moo moooooooooo,

Gardiner silently hurried to the side; more fell than stepped into his
Mooooooo mooooooo moooooo mo moo mooo; mooo mooo mooo moooooo mooo moo

boat, and returned to his ship.
mooo, moo mooooooo mo moo mooo.




Soon the two ships diverged their wakes; and long as the strange vessel
Mooo moo moo moooo mooooooo moooo moooo; moo mooo mo moo moooooo mooooo

was in view, she was seen to yaw hither and thither at every dark spot,
moo mo mooo, moo moo mooo mo moo mooooo moo moooooo mo moooo mooo mooo,

however small, on the sea. This way and that her yards were swung round;
moooooo moooo, mo moo moo. Mooo moo moo mooo moo moooo mooo moooo moooo;

starboard and larboard, she continued to tack; now she beat against a
moooooooo moo mooooooo, moo moooooooo mo mooo; moo moo mooo moooooo m

head sea; and again it pushed her before it; while all the while, her
mooo moo; moo moooo mo mooooo moo mooooo mo; moooo moo moo moooo, moo

masts and yards were thickly clustered with men, as three tall cherry
moooo moo moooo mooo moooooo moooooooo mooo moo, mo moooo mooo mooooo

trees, when the boys are cherrying among the boughs.
moooo, mooo moo mooo moo moooooooo moooo moo mooooo.




But by her still halting course and winding, woeful way, you plainly saw
Moo mo moo moooo moooooo mooooo moo moooooo, mooooo moo, moo moooooo moo

that this ship that so wept with spray, still remained without comfort.
mooo mooo mooo mooo mo mooo mooo moooo, moooo mooooooo moooooo moooooo.

She was Rachel, weeping for her children, because they were not.
Moo moo Mooooo, moooooo moo moo mooooooo, moooooo mooo mooo moo.










CHAPTER 129. The Cabin.
MOOOOOO moo. Moo Moooo.







(AHAB MOVING TO GO ON DECK; PIP CATCHES HIM BY THE HAND TO FOLLOW.)
(MOOO MOOOOO MO MO MO MOOO; MOO MOOOOOO MOO MO MOO MOOO MO MOOOOO.)




"Lad, lad, I tell thee thou must not follow Ahab now. The hour is coming
"Moo, moo, M mooo mooo mooo mooo moo mooooo Mooo moo. Moo mooo mo mooooo

when Ahab would not scare thee from him, yet would not have thee by him.
mooo Mooo moooo moo moooo mooo mooo moo, moo moooo moo mooo mooo mo moo.

There is that in thee, poor lad, which I feel too curing to my malady.
Moooo mo mooo mo mooo, mooo moo, moooo M mooo moo mooooo mo mo mooooo.

Like cures like; and for this hunt, my malady becomes my most desired
Mooo moooo mooo; moo moo mooo mooo, mo mooooo moooooo mo mooo moooooo

health. Do thou abide below here, where they shall serve thee, as if
mooooo. Mo mooo moooo moooo mooo, moooo mooo moooo moooo mooo, mo mo

thou wert the captain. Aye, lad, thou shalt sit here in my own screwed
mooo mooo moo moooooo. Moo, moo, mooo moooo moo mooo mo mo moo moooooo

chair; another screw to it, thou must be."
moooo; moooooo moooo mo mo, mooo mooo mo."




"No, no, no! ye have not a whole body, sir; do ye but use poor me for
"Mo, mo, mo! mo mooo moo m moooo mooo, moo; mo mo moo moo mooo mo moo

your one lost leg; only tread upon me, sir; I ask no more, so I remain a
mooo moo mooo moo; mooo moooo mooo mo, moo; M moo mo mooo, mo M mooooo m

part of ye."
mooo mo mo."




"Oh! spite of million villains, this makes me a bigot in the fadeless
"Mo! moooo mo moooooo mooooooo, mooo moooo mo m moooo mo moo mooooooo

fidelity of man!--and a black! and crazy!--but methinks like-cures-like
mooooooo mo moo!--moo m moooo! moo moooo!--moo mooooooo mooo-moooo-mooo

applies to him too; he grows so sane again."
moooooo mo moo moo; mo moooo mo mooo moooo."




"They tell me, sir, that Stubb did once desert poor little Pip, whose
"Mooo mooo mo, moo, mooo Moooo moo mooo mooooo mooo mooooo Moo, moooo

drowned bones now show white, for all the blackness of his living skin.
moooooo moooo moo mooo moooo, moo moo moo moooooooo mo moo mooooo mooo.

But I will never desert ye, sir, as Stubb did him. Sir, I must go with
Moo M mooo moooo mooooo mo, moo, mo Moooo moo moo. Moo, M mooo mo mooo

ye."
mo."




"If thou speakest thus to me much more, Ahab's purpose keels up in him.
"Mo mooo mooooooo mooo mo mo mooo mooo, Mooo'm moooooo moooo mo mo moo.

I tell thee no; it cannot be."
M mooo mooo mo; mo mooooo mo."




"Oh good master, master, master!
"Mo mooo mooooo, mooooo, mooooo!




"Weep so, and I will murder thee! have a care, for Ahab too is mad.
"Mooo mo, moo M mooo mooooo mooo! mooo m mooo, moo Mooo moo mo moo.

Listen, and thou wilt often hear my ivory foot upon the deck, and still
Mooooo, moo mooo mooo moooo mooo mo moooo mooo mooo moo mooo, moo moooo

know that I am there. And now I quit thee. Thy hand!--Met! True art
mooo mooo M mo moooo. Moo moo M mooo mooo. Moo mooo!--Moo! Mooo moo

thou, lad, as the circumference to its centre. So: God for ever bless
mooo, moo, mo moo moooooooooooo mo moo mooooo. Mo: Moo moo mooo moooo

thee; and if it come to that,--God for ever save thee, let what will
mooo; moo mo mo mooo mo mooo,--Moo moo mooo mooo mooo, moo mooo mooo

befall."
mooooo."




(AHAB GOES; PIP STEPS ONE STEP FORWARD.)
(MOOO MOOO; MOO MOOOO MOO MOOO MOOOOOO.)







"Here he this instant stood; I stand in his air,--but I'm alone. Now
"Mooo mo mooo moooooo moooo; M moooo mo moo moo,--moo M'm moooo. Moo

were even poor Pip here I could endure it, but he's missing. Pip! Pip!
mooo mooo mooo Moo mooo M moooo mooooo mo, moo mo'm moooooo. Moo! Moo!

Ding, dong, ding! Who's seen Pip? He must be up here; let's try the
Mooo, mooo, mooo! Moo'm mooo Moo? Mo mooo mo mo mooo; moo'm moo moo

door. What? neither lock, nor bolt, nor bar; and yet there's no opening
mooo. Mooo? moooooo mooo, moo mooo, moo moo; moo moo moooo'm mo moooooo

it. It must be the spell; he told me to stay here: Aye, and told me this
mo. Mo mooo mo moo moooo; mo mooo mo mo mooo mooo: Moo, moo mooo mo mooo

screwed chair was mine. Here, then, I'll seat me, against the transom,
moooooo moooo moo mooo. Mooo, mooo, M'mo mooo mo, moooooo moo moooooo,

in the ship's full middle, all her keel and her three masts before me.
mo moo mooo'm mooo mooooo, moo moo mooo moo moo moooo moooo mooooo mo.

Here, our old sailors say, in their black seventy-fours great
Mooo, moo moo moooooo moo, mo moooo moooo moooooo-moooo moooo

admirals sometimes sit at table, and lord it over rows of captains and
mooooooo moooooooo moo mo moooo, moo mooo mo mooo mooo mo mooooooo moo

lieutenants. Ha! what's this? epaulets! epaulets! the epaulets all come
moooooooooo. Mo! mooo'm mooo? mooooooo! mooooooo! moo mooooooo moo mooo

crowding! Pass round the decanters; glad to see ye; fill up, monsieurs!
mooooooo! Mooo moooo moo moooooooo; mooo mo moo mo; mooo mo, moooooooo!

What an odd feeling, now, when a black boy's host to white men with gold
Mooo mo moo moooooo, moo, mooo m moooo moo'm mooo mo moooo moo mooo mooo

lace upon their coats!--Monsieurs, have ye seen one Pip?--a little
mooo mooo moooo moooo!--Moooooooo, mooo mo mooo moo Moo?--m mooooo

negro lad, five feet high, hang-dog look, and cowardly! Jumped from a
moooo moo, mooo mooo mooo, mooo-moo mooo, moo mooooooo! Mooooo mooo m

whale-boat once;--seen him? No! Well then, fill up again, captains, and
moooo-mooo mooo;--mooo moo? Mo! Mooo mooo, mooo mo moooo, mooooooo, moo

let's drink shame upon all cowards! I name no names. Shame upon them!
moo'm moooo moooo mooo moo moooooo! M mooo mo moooo. Moooo mooo mooo!

Put one foot upon the table. Shame upon all cowards.--Hist! above there,
Moo moo mooo mooo moo moooo. Moooo mooo moo moooooo.--Mooo! moooo moooo,

I hear ivory--Oh, master! master! I am indeed down-hearted when you walk
M mooo moooo--Mo, mooooo! mooooo! M mo mooooo mooo-moooooo mooo moo mooo

over me. But here I'll stay, though this stern strikes rocks; and they
mooo mo. Moo mooo M'mo mooo, mooooo mooo moooo moooooo moooo; moo mooo

bulge through; and oysters come to join me."
moooo moooooo; moo moooooo mooo mo mooo mo."










CHAPTER 130. The Hat.
MOOOOOO moo. Moo Moo.







And now that at the proper time and place, after so long and wide a
Moo moo mooo mo moo mooooo mooo moo moooo, moooo mo mooo moo mooo m

preliminary cruise, Ahab,--all other whaling waters swept--seemed to
moooooooooo mooooo, Mooo,--moo moooo moooooo mooooo moooo--mooooo mo

have chased his foe into an ocean-fold, to slay him the more securely
mooo mooooo moo moo mooo mo moooo-mooo, mo mooo moo moo mooo mooooooo

there; now, that he found himself hard by the very latitude and
moooo; moo, mooo mo moooo moooooo mooo mo moo mooo mooooooo moo

longitude where his tormenting wound had been inflicted; now that a
moooooooo moooo moo mooooooooo moooo moo mooo moooooooo; moo mooo m

vessel had been spoken which on the very day preceding had actually
mooooo moo mooo mooooo moooo mo moo mooo moo moooooooo moo mooooooo

encountered Moby Dick;--and now that all his successive meetings with
moooooooooo Mooo Mooo;--moo moo mooo moo moo mooooooooo mooooooo mooo

various ships contrastingly concurred to show the demoniac indifference
moooooo moooo moooooooooooo moooooooo mo mooo moo mooooooo mooooooooooo

with which the white whale tore his hunters, whether sinning or sinned
mooo moooo moo moooo moooo mooo moo moooooo, moooooo moooooo mo mooooo

against; now it was that there lurked a something in the old man's eyes,
moooooo; moo mo moo mooo moooo mooooo m moooooooo mo moo moo moo'm mooo,

which it was hardly sufferable for feeble souls to see. As the unsetting
moooo mo moo mooooo mooooooooo moo mooooo moooo mo moo. Mo moo moooooooo

polar star, which through the livelong, arctic, six months' night
moooo mooo, moooo moooooo moo mooooooo, mooooo, moo mooooo' moooo

sustains its piercing, steady, central gaze; so Ahab's purpose now
mooooooo moo mooooooo, mooooo, moooooo mooo; mo Mooo'm moooooo moo

fixedly gleamed down upon the constant midnight of the gloomy crew. It
moooooo moooooo mooo mooo moo mooooooo mooooooo mo moo mooooo mooo. Mo

domineered above them so, that all their bodings, doubts, misgivings,
mooooooooo moooo mooo mo, mooo moo moooo moooooo, mooooo, mooooooooo,

fears, were fain to hide beneath their souls, and not sprout forth a
moooo, mooo mooo mo mooo moooooo moooo moooo, moo moo mooooo moooo m

single spear or leaf.
mooooo moooo mo mooo.




In this foreshadowing interval too, all humor, forced or natural,
Mo mooo moooooooooooo mooooooo moo, moo moooo, mooooo mo moooooo,

vanished. Stubb no more strove to raise a smile; Starbuck no more strove
mooooooo. Moooo mo mooo mooooo mo moooo m moooo; Mooooooo mo mooo mooooo

to check one. Alike, joy and sorrow, hope and fear, seemed ground to
mo moooo moo. Moooo, moo moo mooooo, mooo moo mooo, mooooo mooooo mo

finest dust, and powdered, for the time, in the clamped mortar of
mooooo mooo, moo mooooooo, moo moo mooo, mo moo moooooo mooooo mo

Ahab's iron soul. Like machines, they dumbly moved about the deck, ever
Mooo'm mooo mooo. Mooo mooooooo, mooo mooooo moooo moooo moo mooo, mooo

conscious that the old man's despot eye was on them.
moooooooo mooo moo moo moo'm mooooo moo moo mo mooo.




But did you deeply scan him in his more secret confidential hours; when
Moo moo moo mooooo mooo moo mo moo mooo mooooo mooooooooooo moooo; mooo

he thought no glance but one was on him; then you would have seen that
mo moooooo mo mooooo moo moo moo mo moo; mooo moo moooo mooo mooo mooo

even as Ahab's eyes so awed the crew's, the inscrutable Parsee's glance
mooo mo Mooo'm mooo mo mooo moo mooo'm, moo moooooooooo Mooooo'm mooooo

awed his; or somehow, at least, in some wild way, at times affected it.
mooo moo; mo moooooo, mo moooo, mo mooo mooo moo, mo moooo mooooooo mo.

Such an added, gliding strangeness began to invest the thin Fedallah
Mooo mo moooo, moooooo moooooooooo moooo mo mooooo moo mooo Mooooooo

now; such ceaseless shudderings shook him; that the men looked dubious
moo; mooo moooooooo moooooooooo moooo moo; mooo moo moo mooooo moooooo

at him; half uncertain, as it seemed, whether indeed he were a mortal
mo moo; mooo moooooooo, mo mo mooooo, moooooo mooooo mo mooo m mooooo

substance, or else a tremulous shadow cast upon the deck by some unseen
moooooooo, mo mooo m moooooooo mooooo mooo mooo moo mooo mo mooo mooooo

being's body. And that shadow was always hovering there. For not by
moooo'm mooo. Moo mooo mooooo moo mooooo mooooooo moooo. Moo moo mo

night, even, had Fedallah ever certainly been known to slumber, or go
moooo, mooo, moo Mooooooo mooo moooooooo mooo moooo mo moooooo, mo mo

below. He would stand still for hours: but never sat or leaned; his wan
moooo. Mo moooo moooo moooo moo moooo: moo moooo moo mo mooooo; moo moo

but wondrous eyes did plainly say--We two watchmen never rest.
moo mooooooo mooo moo moooooo moo--Mo moo mooooooo moooo mooo.




Nor, at any time, by night or day could the mariners now step upon the
Moo, mo moo mooo, mo moooo mo moo moooo moo mooooooo moo mooo mooo moo

deck, unless Ahab was before them; either standing in his pivot-hole, or
mooo, mooooo Mooo moo mooooo mooo; mooooo mooooooo mo moo moooo-mooo, mo

exactly pacing the planks between two undeviating limits,--the main-mast
moooooo mooooo moo mooooo moooooo moo moooooooooo mooooo,--moo mooo-mooo

and the mizen; or else they saw him standing in the cabin-scuttle,--his
moo moo moooo; mo mooo mooo moo moo mooooooo mo moo moooo-moooooo,--moo

living foot advanced upon the deck, as if to step; his hat slouched
mooooo mooo mooooooo mooo moo mooo, mo mo mo mooo; moo moo mooooooo

heavily over his eyes; so that however motionless he stood, however the
moooooo mooo moo mooo; mo mooo moooooo mooooooooo mo moooo, moooooo moo

days and nights were added on, that he had not swung in his hammock;
mooo moo mooooo mooo moooo mo, mooo mo moo moo moooo mo moo moooooo;

yet hidden beneath that slouching hat, they could never tell unerringly
moo mooooo moooooo mooo moooooooo moo, mooo moooo moooo mooo mooooooooo

whether, for all this, his eyes were really closed at times; or whether
moooooo, moo moo mooo, moo mooo mooo mooooo mooooo mo moooo; mo moooooo

he was still intently scanning them; no matter, though he stood so in
mo moo moooo mooooooo mooooooo mooo; mo mooooo, mooooo mo moooo mo mo

the scuttle for a whole hour on the stretch, and the unheeded night-damp
moo moooooo moo m moooo mooo mo moo moooooo, moo moo mooooooo moooo-mooo

gathered in beads of dew upon that stone-carved coat and hat. The
mooooooo mo moooo mo moo mooo mooo moooo-mooooo mooo moo moo. Moo

clothes that the night had wet, the next day's sunshine dried upon him;
moooooo mooo moo moooo moo moo, moo mooo moo'm mooooooo moooo mooo moo;

and so, day after day, and night after night; he went no more beneath
moo mo, moo moooo moo, moo moooo moooo moooo; mo mooo mo mooo moooooo

the planks; whatever he wanted from the cabin that thing he sent for.
moo mooooo; mooooooo mo mooooo mooo moo moooo mooo moooo mo mooo moo.




He ate in the same open air; that is, his two only meals,--breakfast and
Mo moo mo moo mooo mooo moo; mooo mo, moo moo mooo moooo,--moooooooo moo

dinner: supper he never touched; nor reaped his beard; which darkly grew
mooooo: mooooo mo moooo moooooo; moo mooooo moo moooo; moooo mooooo mooo

all gnarled, as unearthed roots of trees blown over, which still grow
moo moooooo, mo moooooooo moooo mo moooo moooo mooo, moooo moooo mooo

idly on at naked base, though perished in the upper verdure. But though
mooo mo mo moooo mooo, mooooo mooooooo mo moo moooo moooooo. Moo mooooo

his whole life was now become one watch on deck; and though the Parsee's
moo moooo mooo moo moo mooooo moo moooo mo mooo; moo mooooo moo Mooooo'm

mystic watch was without intermission as his own; yet these two never
mooooo moooo moo moooooo mooooooooooo mo moo moo; moo moooo moo moooo

seemed to speak--one man to the other--unless at long intervals some
mooooo mo moooo--moo moo mo moo moooo--mooooo mo mooo moooooooo mooo

passing unmomentous matter made it necessary. Though such a potent spell
moooooo moooooooooo mooooo mooo mo moooooooo. Mooooo mooo m mooooo moooo

seemed secretly to join the twain; openly, and to the awe-struck crew,
mooooo mooooooo mo mooo moo moooo; mooooo, moo mo moo moo-mooooo mooo,

they seemed pole-like asunder. If by day they chanced to speak one word;
mooo mooooo mooo-mooo moooooo. Mo mo moo mooo moooooo mo moooo moo mooo;

by night, dumb men were both, so far as concerned the slightest verbal
mo moooo, mooo moo mooo mooo, mo moo mo moooooooo moo moooooooo mooooo

interchange. At times, for longest hours, without a single hail, they
moooooooooo. Mo moooo, moo moooooo moooo, moooooo m mooooo mooo, mooo

stood far parted in the starlight; Ahab in his scuttle, the Parsee by
moooo moo mooooo mo moo moooooooo; Mooo mo moo moooooo, moo Mooooo mo

the mainmast; but still fixedly gazing upon each other; as if in the
moo mooooooo; moo moooo moooooo mooooo mooo mooo moooo; mo mo mo moo

Parsee Ahab saw his forethrown shadow, in Ahab the Parsee his abandoned
Mooooo Mooo moo moo mooooooooo mooooo, mo Mooo moo Mooooo moo moooooooo

substance.
moooooooo.




And yet, somehow, did Ahab--in his own proper self, as daily, hourly,
Moo moo, moooooo, moo Mooo--mo moo moo mooooo mooo, mo moooo, mooooo,

and every instant, commandingly revealed to his subordinates,--Ahab
moo moooo moooooo, mooooooooooo mooooooo mo moo mooooooooooo,--Mooo

seemed an independent lord; the Parsee but his slave. Still again both
mooooo mo moooooooooo mooo; moo Mooooo moo moo moooo. Moooo moooo mooo

seemed yoked together, and an unseen tyrant driving them; the lean shade
mooooo moooo mooooooo, moo mo mooooo mooooo moooooo mooo; moo mooo moooo

siding the solid rib. For be this Parsee what he may, all rib and keel
mooooo moo moooo moo. Moo mo mooo Mooooo mooo mo moo, moo moo moo mooo

was solid Ahab.
moo moooo Mooo.




At the first faintest glimmering of the dawn, his iron voice was heard
Mo moo moooo mooooooo mooooooooo mo moo mooo, moo mooo moooo moo moooo

from aft,--"Man the mast-heads!"--and all through the day, till after
mooo moo,--"Moo moo mooo-moooo!"--moo moo moooooo moo moo, mooo moooo

sunset and after twilight, the same voice every hour, at the striking of
mooooo moo moooo mooooooo, moo mooo moooo moooo mooo, mo moo mooooooo mo

the helmsman's bell, was heard--"What d'ye see?--sharp! sharp!"
moo mooooooo'm mooo, moo moooo--"Mooo m'mo moo?--moooo! moooo!"




But when three or four days had slided by, after meeting the
Moo mooo moooo mo mooo mooo moo mooooo mo, moooo moooooo moo

children-seeking Rachel; and no spout had yet been seen; the monomaniac
mooooooo-moooooo Mooooo; moo mo moooo moo moo mooo mooo; moo mooooooooo

old man seemed distrustful of his crew's fidelity; at least, of nearly
moo moo mooooo moooooooooo mo moo mooo'm mooooooo; mo moooo, mo mooooo

all except the Pagan harpooneers; he seemed to doubt, even, whether
moo mooooo moo Moooo moooooooooo; mo mooooo mo moooo, mooo, moooooo

Stubb and Flask might not willingly overlook the sight he sought. But if
Moooo moo Moooo moooo moo moooooooo mooooooo moo moooo mo mooooo. Moo mo

these suspicions were really his, he sagaciously refrained from verbally
moooo mooooooooo mooo mooooo moo, mo moooooooooo moooooooo mooo mooooooo

expressing them, however his actions might seem to hint them.
mooooooooo mooo, moooooo moo moooooo moooo mooo mo mooo mooo.




"I will have the first sight of the whale myself,"--he said. "Aye!
"M mooo mooo moo moooo moooo mo moo moooo mooooo,"--mo mooo. "Moo!

Ahab must have the doubloon! and with his own hands he rigged a nest
Mooo mooo mooo moo mooooooo! moo mooo moo moo moooo mo mooooo m mooo

of basketed bowlines; and sending a hand aloft, with a single sheaved
mo mooooooo mooooooo; moo moooooo m mooo moooo, mooo m mooooo moooooo

block, to secure to the main-mast head, he received the two ends of the
moooo, mo mooooo mo moo mooo-mooo mooo, mo mooooooo moo moo mooo mo moo

downward-reeved rope; and attaching one to his basket prepared a pin for
mooooooo-mooooo mooo; moo moooooooo moo mo moo mooooo mooooooo m moo moo

the other end, in order to fasten it at the rail. This done, with that
moo moooo moo, mo moooo mo mooooo mo mo moo mooo. Mooo mooo, mooo mooo

end yet in his hand and standing beside the pin, he looked round upon
moo moo mo moo mooo moo mooooooo mooooo moo moo, mo mooooo moooo mooo

his crew, sweeping from one to the other; pausing his glance long upon
moo mooo, mooooooo mooo moo mo moo moooo; moooooo moo mooooo mooo mooo

Daggoo, Queequeg, Tashtego; but shunning Fedallah; and then settling his
Mooooo, Mooooooo, Mooooooo; moo mooooooo Mooooooo; moo mooo mooooooo moo

firm relying eye upon the chief mate, said,--"Take the rope, sir--I give
mooo moooooo moo mooo moo moooo mooo, mooo,--"Mooo moo mooo, moo--M mooo

it into thy hands, Starbuck." Then arranging his person in the basket,
mo mooo moo moooo, Mooooooo." Mooo moooooooo moo mooooo mo moo mooooo,

he gave the word for them to hoist him to his perch, Starbuck being
mo mooo moo mooo moo mooo mo moooo moo mo moo moooo, Mooooooo moooo

the one who secured the rope at last; and afterwards stood near it. And
moo moo moo moooooo moo mooo mo mooo; moo mooooooooo moooo mooo mo. Moo

thus, with one hand clinging round the royal mast, Ahab gazed abroad
mooo, mooo moo mooo mooooooo moooo moo moooo mooo, Mooo moooo mooooo

upon the sea for miles and miles,--ahead, astern, this side, and
mooo moo moo moo moooo moo moooo,--moooo, mooooo, mooo mooo, moo

that,--within the wide expanded circle commanded at so great a height.
mooo,--mooooo moo mooo mooooooo mooooo moooooooo mo mo moooo m mooooo.




When in working with his hands at some lofty almost isolated place in
Mooo mo moooooo mooo moo moooo mo mooo moooo mooooo mooooooo moooo mo

the rigging, which chances to afford no foothold, the sailor at sea is
moo moooooo, moooo moooooo mo mooooo mo mooooooo, moo mooooo mo moo mo

hoisted up to that spot, and sustained there by the rope; under these
moooooo mo mo mooo mooo, moo moooooooo moooo mo moo mooo; moooo moooo

circumstances, its fastened end on deck is always given in strict charge
moooooooooooo, moo mooooooo moo mo mooo mo mooooo moooo mo mooooo mooooo

to some one man who has the special watch of it. Because in such a
mo mooo moo moo moo moo moo moooooo moooo mo mo. Moooooo mo mooo m

wilderness of running rigging, whose various different relations aloft
mooooooooo mo moooooo moooooo, moooo moooooo moooooooo moooooooo moooo

cannot always be infallibly discerned by what is seen of them at the
mooooo mooooo mo mooooooooo moooooooo mo mooo mo mooo mo mooo mo moo

deck; and when the deck-ends of these ropes are being every few minutes
mooo; moo mooo moo mooo-mooo mo moooo moooo moo moooo moooo moo moooooo

cast down from the fastenings, it would be but a natural fatality, if,
mooo mooo mooo moo mooooooooo, mo moooo mo moo m moooooo mooooooo, mo,

unprovided with a constant watchman, the hoisted sailor should by some
mooooooooo mooo m mooooooo mooooooo, moo moooooo mooooo mooooo mo mooo

carelessness of the crew be cast adrift and fall all swooping to the
mooooooooooo mo moo mooo mo mooo mooooo moo mooo moo mooooooo mo moo

sea. So Ahab's proceedings in this matter were not unusual; the only
moo. Mo Mooo'm moooooooooo mo mooo mooooo mooo moo moooooo; moo mooo

strange thing about them seemed to be, that Starbuck, almost the one
moooooo moooo moooo mooo mooooo mo mo, mooo Mooooooo, mooooo moo moo

only man who had ever ventured to oppose him with anything in the
mooo moo moo moo mooo mooooooo mo mooooo moo mooo mooooooo mo moo

slightest degree approaching to decision--one of those too, whose
moooooooo mooooo moooooooooo mo mooooooo--moo mo moooo moo, moooo

faithfulness on the look-out he had seemed to doubt somewhat;--it was
mooooooooooo mo moo mooo-moo mo moo mooooo mo moooo mooooooo;--mo moo

strange, that this was the very man he should select for his watchman;
moooooo, mooo mooo moo moo mooo moo mo mooooo mooooo moo moo mooooooo;

freely giving his whole life into such an otherwise distrusted person's
mooooo mooooo moo moooo mooo mooo mooo mo moooooooo mooooooooo mooooo'm

hands.
moooo.




Now, the first time Ahab was perched aloft; ere he had been there ten
Moo, moo moooo mooo Mooo moo moooooo moooo; moo mo moo mooo moooo moo

minutes; one of those red-billed savage sea-hawks which so often fly
moooooo; moo mo moooo moo-mooooo mooooo moo-moooo moooo mo moooo moo

incommodiously close round the manned mast-heads of whalemen in these
mooooooooooooo moooo moooo moo mooooo mooo-moooo mo mooooooo mo moooo

latitudes; one of these birds came wheeling and screaming round his head
moooooooo; moo mo moooo moooo mooo mooooooo moo moooooooo moooo moo mooo

in a maze of untrackably swift circlings. Then it darted a thousand feet
mo m mooo mo moooooooooo moooo moooooooo. Mooo mo mooooo m mooooooo mooo

straight up into the air; then spiralized downwards, and went eddying
mooooooo mo mooo moo moo; mooo mooooooooo moooooooo, moo mooo moooooo

again round his head.
moooo moooo moo mooo.




But with his gaze fixed upon the dim and distant horizon, Ahab seemed
Moo mooo moo mooo moooo mooo moo moo moo moooooo moooooo, Mooo mooooo

not to mark this wild bird; nor, indeed, would any one else have marked
moo mo mooo mooo mooo mooo; moo, mooooo, moooo moo moo mooo mooo mooooo

it much, it being no uncommon circumstance; only now almost the least
mo mooo, mo moooo mo mooooooo mooooooooooo; mooo moo mooooo moo moooo

heedful eye seemed to see some sort of cunning meaning in almost every
moooooo moo mooooo mo moo mooo mooo mo moooooo moooooo mo mooooo moooo

sight.
moooo.




"Your hat, your hat, sir!" suddenly cried the Sicilian seaman, who
"Mooo moo, mooo moo, moo!" mooooooo moooo moo Mooooooo mooooo, moo

being posted at the mizen-mast-head, stood directly behind Ahab, though
moooo mooooo mo moo moooo-mooo-mooo, moooo mooooooo mooooo Mooo, mooooo

somewhat lower than his level, and with a deep gulf of air dividing
mooooooo moooo mooo moo moooo, moo mooo m mooo mooo mo moo mooooooo

them.
mooo.




But already the sable wing was before the old man's eyes; the long
Moo moooooo moo moooo mooo moo mooooo moo moo moo'm mooo; moo mooo

hooked bill at his head: with a scream, the black hawk darted away with
mooooo mooo mo moo mooo: mooo m mooooo, moo moooo mooo mooooo mooo mooo

his prize.
moo moooo.




An eagle flew thrice round Tarquin's head, removing his cap to replace
Mo moooo mooo mooooo moooo Moooooo'm mooo, mooooooo moo moo mo moooooo

it, and thereupon Tanaquil, his wife, declared that Tarquin would
mo, moo moooooooo Mooooooo, moo mooo, mooooooo mooo Moooooo moooo

be king of Rome. But only by the replacing of the cap was that omen
mo mooo mo Mooo. Moo mooo mo moo moooooooo mo moo moo moo mooo mooo

accounted good. Ahab's hat was never restored; the wild hawk flew on and
moooooooo mooo. Mooo'm moo moo moooo mooooooo; moo mooo mooo mooo mo moo

on with it; far in advance of the prow: and at last disappeared; while
mo mooo mo; moo mo moooooo mo moo mooo: moo mo mooo moooooooooo; moooo

from the point of that disappearance, a minute black spot was dimly
mooo moo moooo mo mooo moooooooooooo, m mooooo moooo mooo moo moooo

discerned, falling from that vast height into the sea.
moooooooo, moooooo mooo mooo mooo mooooo mooo moo moo.










CHAPTER 131. The Pequod Meets The Delight.
MOOOOOO moo. Moo Mooooo Moooo Moo Moooooo.







The intense Pequod sailed on; the rolling waves and days went by; the
Moo moooooo Mooooo mooooo mo; moo moooooo moooo moo mooo mooo mo; moo

life-buoy-coffin still lightly swung; and another ship, most miserably
mooo-mooo-mooooo moooo moooooo moooo; moo moooooo mooo, mooo moooooooo

misnamed the Delight, was descried. As she drew nigh, all eyes were
mooooooo moo Moooooo, moo mooooooo. Mo moo mooo mooo, moo mooo mooo

fixed upon her broad beams, called shears, which, in some whaling-ships,
moooo mooo moo moooo moooo, mooooo mooooo, moooo, mo mooo moooooo-moooo,

cross the quarter-deck at the height of eight or nine feet; serving to
moooo moo moooooo-mooo mo moo mooooo mo moooo mo mooo mooo; moooooo mo

carry the spare, unrigged, or disabled boats.
moooo moo moooo, mooooooo, mo mooooooo moooo.




Upon the stranger's shears were beheld the shattered, white ribs, and
Mooo moo mooooooo'm mooooo mooo mooooo moo moooooooo, moooo mooo, moo

some few splintered planks, of what had once been a whale-boat; but you
mooo moo mooooooooo mooooo, mo mooo moo mooo mooo m moooo-mooo; moo moo

now saw through this wreck, as plainly as you see through the peeled,
moo moo moooooo mooo moooo, mo moooooo mo moo moo moooooo moo mooooo,

half-unhinged, and bleaching skeleton of a horse.
mooo-mooooooo, moo moooooooo mooooooo mo m moooo.




"Hast seen the White Whale?"
"Mooo mooo moo Moooo Moooo?"




"Look!" replied the hollow-cheeked captain from his taffrail; and with
"Mooo!" moooooo moo mooooo-moooooo moooooo mooo moo mooooooo; moo mooo

his trumpet he pointed to the wreck.
moo moooooo mo moooooo mo moo moooo.




"Hast killed him?"
"Mooo mooooo moo?"




"The harpoon is not yet forged that ever will do that," answered the
"Moo moooooo mo moo moo mooooo mooo mooo mooo mo mooo," mooooooo moo

other, sadly glancing upon a rounded hammock on the deck, whose gathered
moooo, moooo mooooooo mooo m moooooo moooooo mo moo mooo, moooo mooooooo

sides some noiseless sailors were busy in sewing together.
moooo mooo moooooooo moooooo mooo mooo mo mooooo mooooooo.




"Not forged!" and snatching Perth's levelled iron from the crotch, Ahab
"Moo mooooo!" moo moooooooo Moooo'm mooooooo mooo mooo moo mooooo, Mooo

held it out, exclaiming--"Look ye, Nantucketer; here in this hand I hold
mooo mo moo, mooooooooo--"Mooo mo, Moooooooooo; mooo mo mooo mooo M mooo

his death! Tempered in blood, and tempered by lightning are these barbs;
moo moooo! Mooooooo mo moooo, moo mooooooo mo moooooooo moo moooo moooo;

and I swear to temper them triply in that hot place behind the fin,
moo M moooo mo mooooo mooo mooooo mo mooo moo moooo mooooo moo moo,

where the White Whale most feels his accursed life!"
moooo moo Moooo Moooo mooo moooo moo mooooooo mooo!"




"Then God keep thee, old man--see'st thou that"--pointing to the
"Mooo Moo mooo mooo, moo moo--moo'mo mooo mooo"--mooooooo mo moo

hammock--"I bury but one of five stout men, who were alive only
moooooo--"M mooo moo moo mo mooo moooo moo, moo mooo moooo mooo

yesterday; but were dead ere night. Only THAT one I bury; the rest were
moooooooo; moo mooo mooo moo moooo. Mooo MOOO moo M mooo; moo mooo mooo

buried before they died; you sail upon their tomb." Then turning to his
mooooo mooooo mooo mooo; moo mooo mooo moooo mooo." Mooo moooooo mo moo

crew--"Are ye ready there? place the plank then on the rail, and
mooo--"Moo mo moooo moooo? moooo moo moooo mooo mo moo mooo, moo

lift the body; so, then--Oh! God"--advancing towards the hammock with
mooo moo mooo; mo, mooo--Mo! Moo"--moooooooo moooooo moo moooooo mooo

uplifted hands--"may the resurrection and the life--"
mooooooo moooo--"moo moo mooooooooooo moo moo mooo--"




"Brace forward! Up helm!" cried Ahab like lightning to his men.
"Moooo moooooo! Mo mooo!" moooo Mooo mooo moooooooo mo moo moo.




But the suddenly started Pequod was not quick enough to escape the sound
Moo moo mooooooo moooooo Mooooo moo moo moooo mooooo mo mooooo moo moooo

of the splash that the corpse soon made as it struck the sea; not so
mo moo mooooo mooo moo mooooo mooo mooo mo mo mooooo moo moo; moo mo

quick, indeed, but that some of the flying bubbles might have sprinkled
moooo, mooooo, moo mooo mooo mo moo mooooo moooooo moooo mooo moooooooo

her hull with their ghostly baptism.
moo mooo mooo moooo moooooo moooooo.




As Ahab now glided from the dejected Delight, the strange life-buoy
Mo Mooo moo mooooo mooo moo mooooooo Moooooo, moo moooooo mooo-mooo

hanging at the Pequod's stern came into conspicuous relief.
moooooo mo moo Mooooo'm moooo mooo mooo moooooooooo mooooo.




"Ha! yonder! look yonder, men!" cried a foreboding voice in her wake.
"Mo! mooooo! mooo mooooo, moo!" moooo m mooooooooo moooo mo moo mooo.

"In vain, oh, ye strangers, ye fly our sad burial; ye but turn us your
"Mo mooo, mo, mo moooooooo, mo moo moo moo mooooo; mo moo mooo mo mooo

taffrail to show us your coffin!"
mooooooo mo mooo mo mooo mooooo!"










CHAPTER 132. The Symphony.
MOOOOOO moo. Moo Mooooooo.







It was a clear steel-blue day. The firmaments of air and sea were
Mo moo m moooo moooo-mooo moo. Moo mooooooooo mo moo moo moo mooo

hardly separable in that all-pervading azure; only, the pensive air was
mooooo moooooooo mo mooo moo-moooooooo moooo; mooo, moo moooooo moo moo

transparently pure and soft, with a woman's look, and the robust and
moooooooooooo mooo moo mooo, mooo m moooo'm mooo, moo moo mooooo moo

man-like sea heaved with long, strong, lingering swells, as Samson's
moo-mooo moo mooooo mooo mooo, mooooo, moooooooo mooooo, mo Mooooo'm

chest in his sleep.
moooo mo moo moooo.




Hither, and thither, on high, glided the snow-white wings of small,
Mooooo, moo moooooo, mo mooo, mooooo moo mooo-moooo moooo mo moooo,

unspeckled birds; these were the gentle thoughts of the feminine air;
mooooooooo moooo; moooo mooo moo mooooo mooooooo mo moo mooooooo moo;

but to and fro in the deeps, far down in the bottomless blue, rushed
moo mo moo moo mo moo moooo, moo mooo mo moo mooooooooo mooo, mooooo

mighty leviathans, sword-fish, and sharks; and these were the strong,
mooooo mooooooooo, moooo-mooo, moo mooooo; moo moooo mooo moo mooooo,

troubled, murderous thinkings of the masculine sea.
mooooooo, moooooooo moooooooo mo moo moooooooo moo.




But though thus contrasting within, the contrast was only in shades and
Moo mooooo mooo moooooooooo mooooo, moo mooooooo moo mooo mo mooooo moo

shadows without; those two seemed one; it was only the sex, as it were,
moooooo moooooo; moooo moo mooooo moo; mo moo mooo moo moo, mo mo mooo,

that distinguished them.
mooo moooooooooooo mooo.




Aloft, like a royal czar and king, the sun seemed giving this gentle
Moooo, mooo m moooo mooo moo mooo, moo moo mooooo mooooo mooo mooooo

air to this bold and rolling sea; even as bride to groom. And at the
moo mo mooo mooo moo moooooo moo; mooo mo moooo mo moooo. Moo mo moo

girdling line of the horizon, a soft and tremulous motion--most seen
mooooooo mooo mo moo moooooo, m mooo moo moooooooo mooooo--mooo mooo

here at the Equator--denoted the fond, throbbing trust, the loving
mooo mo moo Moooooo--moooooo moo mooo, moooooooo moooo, moo mooooo

alarms, with which the poor bride gave her bosom away.
mooooo, mooo moooo moo mooo moooo mooo moo moooo mooo.




Tied up and twisted; gnarled and knotted with wrinkles; haggardly firm
Mooo mo moo moooooo; moooooo moo moooooo mooo mooooooo; moooooooo mooo

and unyielding; his eyes glowing like coals, that still glow in the
moo mooooooooo; moo mooo moooooo mooo moooo, mooo moooo mooo mo moo

ashes of ruin; untottering Ahab stood forth in the clearness of the
moooo mo mooo; moooooooooo Mooo moooo moooo mo moo moooooooo mo moo

morn; lifting his splintered helmet of a brow to the fair girl's
mooo; moooooo moo mooooooooo mooooo mo m mooo mo moo mooo mooo'm

forehead of heaven.
mooooooo mo mooooo.




Oh, immortal infancy, and innocency of the azure! Invisible winged
Mo, mooooooo moooooo, moo moooooooo mo moo moooo! Moooooooo mooooo

creatures that frolic all round us! Sweet childhood of air and sky! how
moooooooo mooo mooooo moo moooo mo! Moooo moooooooo mo moo moo moo! moo

oblivious were ye of old Ahab's close-coiled woe! But so have I seen
moooooooo mooo mo mo moo Mooo'm moooo-mooooo moo! Moo mo mooo M mooo

little Miriam and Martha, laughing-eyed elves, heedlessly gambol around
mooooo Mooooo moo Mooooo, mooooooo-mooo moooo, mooooooooo mooooo mooooo

their old sire; sporting with the circle of singed locks which grew on
moooo moo mooo; mooooooo mooo moo mooooo mo mooooo moooo moooo mooo mo

the marge of that burnt-out crater of his brain.
moo moooo mo mooo moooo-moo mooooo mo moo moooo.




Slowly crossing the deck from the scuttle, Ahab leaned over the side and
Mooooo mooooooo moo mooo mooo moo moooooo, Mooo mooooo mooo moo mooo moo

watched how his shadow in the water sank and sank to his gaze, the more
moooooo moo moo mooooo mo moo moooo mooo moo mooo mo moo mooo, moo mooo

and the more that he strove to pierce the profundity. But the lovely
moo moo mooo mooo mo mooooo mo mooooo moo mooooooooo. Moo moo mooooo

aromas in that enchanted air did at last seem to dispel, for a moment,
mooooo mo mooo moooooooo moo moo mo mooo mooo mo mooooo, moo m mooooo,

the cankerous thing in his soul. That glad, happy air, that winsome
moo moooooooo moooo mo moo mooo. Mooo mooo, moooo moo, mooo moooooo

sky, did at last stroke and caress him; the step-mother world, so long
moo, moo mo mooo mooooo moo mooooo moo; moo mooo-mooooo moooo, mo mooo

cruel--forbidding--now threw affectionate arms round his stubborn neck,
moooo--mooooooooo--moo moooo mooooooooooo mooo moooo moo mooooooo mooo,

and did seem to joyously sob over him, as if over one, that however
moo moo mooo mo mooooooo moo mooo moo, mo mo mooo moo, mooo moooooo

wilful and erring, she could yet find it in her heart to save and to
mooooo moo mooooo, moo moooo moo mooo mo mo moo moooo mo mooo moo mo

bless. From beneath his slouched hat Ahab dropped a tear into the sea;
moooo. Mooo moooooo moo mooooooo moo Mooo moooooo m mooo mooo moo moo;

nor did all the Pacific contain such wealth as that one wee drop.
moo moo moo moo Moooooo moooooo mooo mooooo mo mooo moo moo mooo.




Starbuck saw the old man; saw him, how he heavily leaned over the side;
Mooooooo moo moo moo moo; moo moo, moo mo moooooo mooooo mooo moo mooo;

and he seemed to hear in his own true heart the measureless sobbing that
moo mo mooooo mo mooo mo moo moo mooo moooo moo moooooooooo moooooo mooo

stole out of the centre of the serenity around. Careful not to touch
moooo moo mo moo mooooo mo moo mooooooo mooooo. Moooooo moo mo moooo

him, or be noticed by him, he yet drew near to him, and stood there.
moo, mo mo moooooo mo moo, mo moo mooo mooo mo moo, moo moooo moooo.




Ahab turned.
Mooo mooooo.




"Starbuck!"
"Mooooooo!"




"Sir."
"Moo."




"Oh, Starbuck! it is a mild, mild wind, and a mild looking sky. On such
"Mo, Mooooooo! mo mo m mooo, mooo mooo, moo m mooo moooooo moo. Mo mooo

a day--very much such a sweetness as this--I struck my first whale--a
m moo--mooo mooo mooo m moooooooo mo mooo--M mooooo mo moooo moooo--m

boy-harpooneer of eighteen! Forty--forty--forty years ago!--ago! Forty
moo-mooooooooo mo mooooooo! Moooo--moooo--moooo moooo moo!--moo! Moooo

years of continual whaling! forty years of privation, and peril, and
moooo mo moooooooo moooooo! moooo moooo mo moooooooo, moo moooo, moo

storm-time! forty years on the pitiless sea! for forty years has Ahab
moooo-mooo! moooo moooo mo moo mooooooo moo! moo moooo moooo moo Mooo

forsaken the peaceful land, for forty years to make war on the horrors
mooooooo moo mooooooo mooo, moo moooo moooo mo mooo moo mo moo moooooo

of the deep! Aye and yes, Starbuck, out of those forty years I have not
mo moo mooo! Moo moo moo, Mooooooo, moo mo moooo moooo moooo M mooo moo

spent three ashore. When I think of this life I have led; the desolation
moooo moooo mooooo. Mooo M moooo mo mooo mooo M mooo moo; moo mooooooooo

of solitude it has been; the masoned, walled-town of a Captain's
mo mooooooo mo moo mooo; moo moooooo, mooooo-mooo mo m Moooooo'm

exclusiveness, which admits but small entrance to any sympathy from the
moooooooooooo, moooo mooooo moo moooo mooooooo mo moo mooooooo mooo moo

green country without--oh, weariness! heaviness! Guinea-coast slavery of
moooo moooooo moooooo--mo, moooooooo! moooooooo! Mooooo-moooo moooooo mo

solitary command!--when I think of all this; only half-suspected, not so
mooooooo moooooo!--mooo M moooo mo moo mooo; mooo mooo-moooooooo, moo mo

keenly known to me before--and how for forty years I have fed upon dry
mooooo moooo mo mo mooooo--moo moo moo moooo moooo M mooo moo mooo moo

salted fare--fit emblem of the dry nourishment of my soil!--when the
mooooo mooo--moo mooooo mo moo moo moooooooooo mo mo mooo!--mooo moo

poorest landsman has had fresh fruit to his daily hand, and broken the
moooooo mooooooo moo moo moooo moooo mo moo moooo mooo, moo mooooo moo

world's fresh bread to my mouldy crusts--away, whole oceans away, from
moooo'm moooo moooo mo mo mooooo mooooo--mooo, moooo mooooo mooo, mooo

that young girl-wife I wedded past fifty, and sailed for Cape Horn
mooo moooo mooo-mooo M mooooo mooo moooo, moo mooooo moo Mooo Mooo

the next day, leaving but one dent in my marriage pillow--wife?
moo mooo moo, moooooo moo moo mooo mo mo mooooooo mooooo--mooo?

wife?--rather a widow with her husband alive! Aye, I widowed that poor
mooo?--mooooo m moooo mooo moo moooooo moooo! Moo, M moooooo mooo mooo

girl when I married her, Starbuck; and then, the madness, the frenzy,
mooo mooo M moooooo moo, Mooooooo; moo mooo, moo moooooo, moo mooooo,

the boiling blood and the smoking brow, with which, for a thousand
moo moooooo moooo moo moo moooooo mooo, mooo moooo, moo m mooooooo

lowerings old Ahab has furiously, foamingly chased his prey--more a
moooooooo moo Mooo moo moooooooo, moooooooo mooooo moo mooo--mooo m

demon than a man!--aye, aye! what a forty years' fool--fool--old fool,
moooo mooo m moo!--moo, moo! mooo m moooo moooo' mooo--mooo--moo mooo,

has old Ahab been! Why this strife of the chase? why weary, and palsy
moo moo Mooo mooo! Moo mooo mooooo mo moo moooo? moo moooo, moo moooo

the arm at the oar, and the iron, and the lance? how the richer or
moo moo mo moo moo, moo moo mooo, moo moo moooo? moo moo mooooo mo

better is Ahab now? Behold. Oh, Starbuck! is it not hard, that with this
mooooo mo Mooo moo? Mooooo. Mo, Mooooooo! mo mo moo mooo, mooo mooo mooo

weary load I bear, one poor leg should have been snatched from under
moooo mooo M mooo, moo mooo moo mooooo mooo mooo mooooooo mooo moooo

me? Here, brush this old hair aside; it blinds me, that I seem to weep.
mo? Mooo, moooo mooo moo mooo moooo; mo mooooo mo, mooo M mooo mo mooo.

Locks so grey did never grow but from out some ashes! But do I look
Moooo mo mooo moo moooo mooo moo mooo moo mooo moooo! Moo mo M mooo

very old, so very, very old, Starbuck? I feel deadly faint, bowed, and
mooo moo, mo mooo, mooo moo, Mooooooo? M mooo mooooo moooo, moooo, moo

humped, as though I were Adam, staggering beneath the piled
mooooo, mo mooooo M mooo Mooo, mooooooooo moooooo moo moooo

centuries since Paradise. God! God! God!--crack my heart!--stave my
moooooooo moooo Mooooooo. Moo! Moo! Moo!--moooo mo moooo!--moooo mo

brain!--mockery! mockery! bitter, biting mockery of grey hairs, have
moooo!--moooooo! moooooo! mooooo, mooooo moooooo mo mooo moooo, mooo

I lived enough joy to wear ye; and seem and feel thus intolerably old?
M moooo mooooo moo mo mooo mo; moo mooo moo mooo mooo moooooooooo moo?

Close! stand close to me, Starbuck; let me look into a human eye; it is
Moooo! moooo moooo mo mo, Mooooooo; moo mo mooo mooo m moooo moo; mo mo

better than to gaze into sea or sky; better than to gaze upon God. By
mooooo mooo mo mooo mooo moo mo moo; mooooo mooo mo mooo mooo Moo. Mo

the green land; by the bright hearth-stone! this is the magic glass,
moo moooo mooo; mo moo mooooo mooooo-moooo! mooo mo moo moooo moooo,

man; I see my wife and my child in thine eye. No, no; stay on board, on
moo; M moo mo mooo moo mo moooo mo moooo moo. Mo, mo; mooo mo moooo, mo

board!--lower not when I do; when branded Ahab gives chase to Moby Dick.
moooo!--moooo moo mooo M mo; mooo moooooo Mooo moooo moooo mo Mooo Mooo.

That hazard shall not be thine. No, no! not with the far away home I see
Mooo mooooo moooo moo mo moooo. Mo, mo! moo mooo moo moo mooo mooo M moo

in that eye!"
mo mooo moo!"




"Oh, my Captain! my Captain! noble soul! grand old heart, after all! why
"Mo, mo Moooooo! mo Moooooo! moooo mooo! moooo moo moooo, moooo moo! moo

should any one give chase to that hated fish! Away with me! let us
mooooo moo moo mooo moooo mo mooo moooo mooo! Mooo mooo mo! moo mo

fly these deadly waters! let us home! Wife and child, too, are
moo moooo mooooo mooooo! moo mo mooo! Mooo moo moooo, moo, moo

Starbuck's--wife and child of his brotherly, sisterly, play-fellow
Mooooooo'm--mooo moo moooo mo moo moooooooo, mooooooo, mooo-mooooo

youth; even as thine, sir, are the wife and child of thy loving,
moooo; mooo mo moooo, moo, moo moo mooo moo moooo mo moo mooooo,

longing, paternal old age! Away! let us away!--this instant let me alter
moooooo, mooooooo moo moo! Mooo! moo mo mooo!--mooo moooooo moo mo moooo

the course! How cheerily, how hilariously, O my Captain, would we bowl
moo mooooo! Moo mooooooo, moo moooooooooo, M mo Moooooo, moooo mo mooo

on our way to see old Nantucket again! I think, sir, they have some such
mo moo moo mo moo moo Moooooooo moooo! M moooo, moo, mooo mooo mooo mooo

mild blue days, even as this, in Nantucket."
mooo mooo mooo, mooo mo mooo, mo Moooooooo."




"They have, they have. I have seen them--some summer days in the
"Mooo mooo, mooo mooo. M mooo mooo mooo--mooo mooooo mooo mo moo

morning. About this time--yes, it is his noon nap now--the boy
moooooo. Moooo mooo mooo--moo, mo mo moo mooo moo moo--moo moo

vivaciously wakes; sits up in bed; and his mother tells him of me, of
moooooooooo moooo; mooo mo mo moo; moo moo mooooo moooo moo mo mo, mo

cannibal old me; how I am abroad upon the deep, but will yet come back
mooooooo moo mo; moo M mo mooooo mooo moo mooo, moo mooo moo mooo mooo

to dance him again."
mo moooo moo moooo."




"'Tis my Mary, my Mary herself! She promised that my boy, every morning,
"'Moo mo Mooo, mo Mooo moooooo! Moo mooooooo mooo mo moo, moooo moooooo,

should be carried to the hill to catch the first glimpse of his father's
mooooo mo moooooo mo moo mooo mo moooo moo moooo moooooo mo moo mooooo'm

sail! Yes, yes! no more! it is done! we head for Nantucket! Come, my
mooo! Moo, moo! mo mooo! mo mo mooo! mo mooo moo Moooooooo! Mooo, mo

Captain, study out the course, and let us away! See, see! the boy's face
Moooooo, moooo moo moo mooooo, moo moo mo mooo! Moo, moo! moo moo'm mooo

from the window! the boy's hand on the hill!"
mooo moo mooooo! moo moo'm mooo mo moo mooo!"




But Ahab's glance was averted; like a blighted fruit tree he shook, and
Moo Mooo'm mooooo moo moooooo; mooo m mooooooo moooo mooo mo moooo, moo

cast his last, cindered apple to the soil.
mooo moo mooo, mooooooo moooo mo moo mooo.




"What is it, what nameless, inscrutable, unearthly thing is it; what
"Mooo mo mo, mooo mooooooo, moooooooooo, moooooooo moooo mo mo; mooo

cozening, hidden lord and master, and cruel, remorseless emperor
mooooooo, mooooo mooo moo mooooo, moo moooo, moooooooooo moooooo

commands me; that against all natural lovings and longings, I so keep
mooooooo mo; mooo moooooo moo moooooo moooooo moo mooooooo, M mo mooo

pushing, and crowding, and jamming myself on all the time; recklessly
moooooo, moo mooooooo, moo moooooo mooooo mo moo moo mooo; mooooooooo

making me ready to do what in my own proper, natural heart, I durst not
mooooo mo moooo mo mo mooo mo mo moo mooooo, moooooo moooo, M moooo moo

so much as dare? Is Ahab, Ahab? Is it I, God, or who, that lifts this
mo mooo mo mooo? Mo Mooo, Mooo? Mo mo M, Moo, mo moo, mooo moooo mooo

arm? But if the great sun move not of himself; but is as an errand-boy
moo? Moo mo moo moooo moo mooo moo mo moooooo; moo mo mo mo mooooo-moo

in heaven; nor one single star can revolve, but by some invisible power;
mo mooooo; moo moo mooooo mooo moo moooooo, moo mo mooo moooooooo moooo;

how then can this one small heart beat; this one small brain think
moo mooo moo mooo moo moooo moooo mooo; mooo moo moooo moooo moooo

thoughts; unless God does that beating, does that thinking, does that
mooooooo; mooooo Moo mooo mooo moooooo, mooo mooo mooooooo, mooo mooo

living, and not I. By heaven, man, we are turned round and round in
mooooo, moo moo M. Mo mooooo, moo, mo moo mooooo moooo moo moooo mo

this world, like yonder windlass, and Fate is the handspike. And all
mooo moooo, mooo mooooo mooooooo, moo Mooo mo moo moooooooo. Moo moo

the time, lo! that smiling sky, and this unsounded sea! Look! see yon
moo mooo, mo! mooo moooooo moo, moo mooo moooooooo moo! Mooo! moo moo

Albicore! who put it into him to chase and fang that flying-fish? Where
Mooooooo! moo moo mo mooo moo mo moooo moo mooo mooo mooooo-mooo? Moooo

do murderers go, man! Who's to doom, when the judge himself is dragged
mo moooooooo mo, moo! Moo'm mo mooo, mooo moo moooo moooooo mo moooooo

to the bar? But it is a mild, mild wind, and a mild looking sky; and
mo moo moo? Moo mo mo m mooo, mooo mooo, moo m mooo moooooo moo; moo

the air smells now, as if it blew from a far-away meadow; they have been
moo moo mooooo moo, mo mo mo mooo mooo m moo-mooo mooooo; mooo mooo mooo

making hay somewhere under the slopes of the Andes, Starbuck, and the
mooooo moo moooooooo moooo moo mooooo mo moo Moooo, Mooooooo, moo moo

mowers are sleeping among the new-mown hay. Sleeping? Aye, toil we how
mooooo moo mooooooo moooo moo moo-mooo moo. Mooooooo? Moo, mooo mo moo

we may, we all sleep at last on the field. Sleep? Aye, and rust amid
mo moo, mo moo moooo mo mooo mo moo moooo. Moooo? Moo, moo mooo mooo

greenness; as last year's scythes flung down, and left in the half-cut
moooooooo; mo mooo mooo'm moooooo moooo mooo, moo mooo mo moo mooo-moo

swaths--Starbuck!"
mooooo--Mooooooo!"




But blanched to a corpse's hue with despair, the Mate had stolen away.
Moo mooooooo mo m mooooo'm moo mooo moooooo, moo Mooo moo mooooo mooo.




Ahab crossed the deck to gaze over on the other side; but started at
Mooo moooooo moo mooo mo mooo mooo mo moo moooo mooo; moo moooooo mo

two reflected, fixed eyes in the water there. Fedallah was motionlessly
moo moooooooo, moooo mooo mo moo moooo moooo. Mooooooo moo mooooooooooo

leaning over the same rail.
moooooo mooo moo mooo mooo.










CHAPTER 133. The Chase--First Day.
MOOOOOO moo. Moo Moooo--Moooo Moo.







That night, in the mid-watch, when the old man--as his wont at
Mooo moooo, mo moo moo-moooo, mooo moo moo moo--mo moo mooo mo

intervals--stepped forth from the scuttle in which he leaned, and went
moooooooo--moooooo moooo mooo moo moooooo mo moooo mo mooooo, moo mooo

to his pivot-hole, he suddenly thrust out his face fiercely, snuffing
mo moo moooo-mooo, mo mooooooo mooooo moo moo mooo mooooooo, mooooooo

up the sea air as a sagacious ship's dog will, in drawing nigh to
mo moo moo moo mo m moooooooo mooo'm moo mooo, mo moooooo mooo mo

some barbarous isle. He declared that a whale must be near. Soon that
mooo moooooooo mooo. Mo mooooooo mooo m moooo mooo mo mooo. Mooo mooo

peculiar odor, sometimes to a great distance given forth by the
mooooooo mooo, moooooooo mo m moooo mooooooo moooo moooo mo moo

living sperm whale, was palpable to all the watch; nor was any mariner
mooooo moooo moooo, moo mooooooo mo moo moo moooo; moo moo moo moooooo

surprised when, after inspecting the compass, and then the dog-vane, and
moooooooo mooo, moooo mooooooooo moo moooooo, moo mooo moo moo-mooo, moo

then ascertaining the precise bearing of the odor as nearly as possible,
mooo mooooooooooo moo moooooo moooooo mo moo mooo mo mooooo mo mooooooo,

Ahab rapidly ordered the ship's course to be slightly altered, and the
Mooo moooooo moooooo moo mooo'm mooooo mo mo mooooooo moooooo, moo moo

sail to be shortened.
mooo mo mo moooooooo.




The acute policy dictating these movements was sufficiently vindicated
Moo moooo mooooo moooooooo moooo moooooooo moo mooooooooooo mooooooooo

at daybreak, by the sight of a long sleek on the sea directly and
mo mooooooo, mo moo moooo mo m mooo moooo mo moo moo mooooooo moo

lengthwise ahead, smooth as oil, and resembling in the pleated watery
mooooooooo moooo, mooooo mo moo, moo mooooooooo mo moo moooooo mooooo

wrinkles bordering it, the polished metallic-like marks of some swift
mooooooo moooooooo mo, moo mooooooo mooooooo-mooo moooo mo mooo moooo

tide-rip, at the mouth of a deep, rapid stream.
mooo-moo, mo moo moooo mo m mooo, moooo mooooo.




"Man the mast-heads! Call all hands!"
"Moo moo mooo-moooo! Mooo moo moooo!"




Thundering with the butts of three clubbed handspikes on the forecastle
Mooooooooo mooo moo moooo mo moooo moooooo mooooooooo mo moo mooooooooo

deck, Daggoo roused the sleepers with such judgment claps that they
mooo, Mooooo mooooo moo mooooooo mooo mooo mooooooo moooo mooo mooo

seemed to exhale from the scuttle, so instantaneously did they appear
mooooo mo mooooo mooo moo moooooo, mo moooooooooooooo moo mooo mooooo

with their clothes in their hands.
mooo moooo moooooo mo moooo moooo.




"What d'ye see?" cried Ahab, flattening his face to the sky.
"Mooo m'mo moo?" moooo Mooo, mooooooooo moo mooo mo moo moo.




"Nothing, nothing sir!" was the sound hailing down in reply.
"Moooooo, moooooo moo!" moo moo moooo moooooo mooo mo moooo.




"T'gallant sails!--stunsails! alow and aloft, and on both sides!"
"M'moooooo moooo!--moooooooo! mooo moo moooo, moo mo mooo moooo!"




All sail being set, he now cast loose the life-line, reserved for
Moo mooo moooo moo, mo moo mooo moooo moo mooo-mooo, mooooooo moo

swaying him to the main royal-mast head; and in a few moments they were
moooooo moo mo moo mooo moooo-mooo mooo; moo mo m moo moooooo mooo mooo

hoisting him thither, when, while but two thirds of the way aloft,
mooooooo moo moooooo, mooo, moooo moo moo mooooo mo moo moo moooo,

and while peering ahead through the horizontal vacancy between the
moo moooo moooooo moooo moooooo moo mooooooooo moooooo moooooo moo

main-top-sail and top-gallant-sail, he raised a gull-like cry in the
mooo-moo-mooo moo moo-moooooo-mooo, mo mooooo m mooo-mooo moo mo moo

air. "There she blows!--there she blows! A hump like a snow-hill! It is
moo. "Moooo moo moooo!--moooo moo moooo! M mooo mooo m mooo-mooo! Mo mo

Moby Dick!"
Mooo Mooo!"




Fired by the cry which seemed simultaneously taken up by the three
Moooo mo moo moo moooo mooooo mooooooooooooo moooo mo mo moo moooo

look-outs, the men on deck rushed to the rigging to behold the famous
mooo-mooo, moo moo mo mooo mooooo mo moo moooooo mo mooooo moo mooooo

whale they had so long been pursuing. Ahab had now gained his final
moooo mooo moo mo mooo mooo mooooooo. Mooo moo moo mooooo moo moooo

perch, some feet above the other look-outs, Tashtego standing just
moooo, mooo mooo moooo moo moooo mooo-mooo, Mooooooo mooooooo mooo

beneath him on the cap of the top-gallant-mast, so that the Indian's
moooooo moo mo moo moo mo moo moo-moooooo-mooo, mo mooo moo Mooooo'm

head was almost on a level with Ahab's heel. From this height the whale
mooo moo mooooo mo m moooo mooo Mooo'm mooo. Mooo mooo mooooo moo moooo

was now seen some mile or so ahead, at every roll of the sea revealing
moo moo mooo mooo mooo mo mo moooo, mo moooo mooo mo moo moo moooooooo

his high sparkling hump, and regularly jetting his silent spout into the
moo mooo moooooooo mooo, moo moooooooo moooooo moo mooooo moooo mooo moo

air. To the credulous mariners it seemed the same silent spout they had
moo. Mo moo moooooooo mooooooo mo mooooo moo mooo mooooo moooo mooo moo

so long ago beheld in the moonlit Atlantic and Indian Oceans.
mo mooo moo mooooo mo moo moooooo Mooooooo moo Mooooo Mooooo.




"And did none of ye see it before?" cried Ahab, hailing the perched men
"Moo moo mooo mo mo moo mo mooooo?" moooo Mooo, moooooo moo moooooo moo

all around him.
moo mooooo moo.




"I saw him almost that same instant, sir, that Captain Ahab did, and I
"M moo moo mooooo mooo mooo moooooo, moo, mooo Moooooo Mooo moo, moo M

cried out," said Tashtego.
moooo moo," mooo Mooooooo.




"Not the same instant; not the same--no, the doubloon is mine, Fate
"Moo moo mooo moooooo; moo moo mooo--mo, moo mooooooo mo mooo, Mooo

reserved the doubloon for me. I only; none of ye could have raised the
mooooooo moo mooooooo moo mo. M mooo; mooo mo mo moooo mooo mooooo moo

White Whale first. There she blows!--there she blows!--there she blows!
Moooo Moooo moooo. Moooo moo moooo!--moooo moo moooo!--moooo moo moooo!

There again!--there again!" he cried, in long-drawn, lingering, methodic
Moooo moooo!--moooo moooo!" mo moooo, mo mooo-moooo, moooooooo, mooooooo

tones, attuned to the gradual prolongings of the whale's visible jets.
moooo, moooooo mo moo moooooo moooooooooo mo moo moooo'm moooooo mooo.

"He's going to sound! In stunsails! Down top-gallant-sails! Stand by
"Mo'm moooo mo moooo! Mo moooooooo! Mooo moo-moooooo-moooo! Moooo mo

three boats. Mr. Starbuck, remember, stay on board, and keep the ship.
moooo moooo. Mo. Mooooooo, mooooooo, mooo mo moooo, moo mooo moo mooo.

Helm there! Luff, luff a point! So; steady, man, steady! There go
Mooo moooo! Mooo, mooo m moooo! Mo; mooooo, moo, mooooo! Moooo mo

flukes! No, no; only black water! All ready the boats there? Stand by,
mooooo! Mo, mo; mooo moooo moooo! Moo moooo moo moooo moooo? Moooo mo,

stand by! Lower me, Mr. Starbuck; lower, lower,--quick, quicker!" and he
moooo mo! Moooo mo, Mo. Mooooooo; moooo, moooo,--moooo, moooooo!" moo mo

slid through the air to the deck.
mooo moooooo moo moo mo moo mooo.




"He is heading straight to leeward, sir," cried Stubb, "right away from
"Mo mo moooooo mooooooo mo moooooo, moo," moooo Moooo, "moooo mooo mooo

us; cannot have seen the ship yet."
mo; mooooo mooo mooo moo mooo moo."




"Be dumb, man! Stand by the braces! Hard down the helm!--brace up!
"Mo mooo, moo! Moooo mo moo mooooo! Mooo mooo moo mooo!--moooo mo!

Shiver her!--shiver her!--So; well that! Boats, boats!"
Mooooo moo!--mooooo moo!--Mo; mooo mooo! Moooo, moooo!"




Soon all the boats but Starbuck's were dropped; all the boat-sails
Mooo moo moo moooo moo Mooooooo'm mooo moooooo; moo moo mooo-moooo

set--all the paddles plying; with rippling swiftness, shooting to
moo--moo moo moooooo mooooo; mooo mooooooo moooooooo, mooooooo mo

leeward; and Ahab heading the onset. A pale, death-glimmer lit up
moooooo; moo Mooo moooooo moo moooo. M mooo, moooo-moooooo moo mo

Fedallah's sunken eyes; a hideous motion gnawed his mouth.
Mooooooo'm mooooo mooo; m moooooo mooooo mooooo moo moooo.




Like noiseless nautilus shells, their light prows sped through the sea;
Mooo moooooooo mooooooo mooooo, moooo moooo moooo mooo moooooo moo moo;

but only slowly they neared the foe. As they neared him, the ocean grew
moo mooo mooooo mooo mooooo moo moo. Mo mooo mooooo moo, moo moooo mooo

still more smooth; seemed drawing a carpet over its waves; seemed a
moooo mooo mooooo; mooooo moooooo m mooooo mooo moo moooo; mooooo m

noon-meadow, so serenely it spread. At length the breathless hunter came
mooo-mooooo, mo mooooooo mo mooooo. Mo mooooo moo mooooooooo mooooo mooo

so nigh his seemingly unsuspecting prey, that his entire dazzling hump
mo mooo moo moooooooo mooooooooooo mooo, mooo moo mooooo mooooooo mooo

was distinctly visible, sliding along the sea as if an isolated thing,
moo mooooooooo moooooo, moooooo moooo moo moo mo mo mo mooooooo moooo,

and continually set in a revolving ring of finest, fleecy, greenish
moo moooooooooo moo mo m moooooooo mooo mo mooooo, mooooo, mooooooo

foam. He saw the vast, involved wrinkles of the slightly projecting head
mooo. Mo moo moo mooo, mooooooo mooooooo mo moo mooooooo mooooooooo mooo

beyond. Before it, far out on the soft Turkish-rugged waters, went
mooooo. Mooooo mo, moo moo mo moo mooo Moooooo-mooooo mooooo, mooo

the glistening white shadow from his broad, milky forehead, a musical
moo mooooooooo moooo mooooo mooo moo moooo, moooo mooooooo, m moooooo

rippling playfully accompanying the shade; and behind, the blue waters
mooooooo moooooooo mooooooooooo moo moooo; moo mooooo, moo mooo mooooo

interchangeably flowed over into the moving valley of his steady wake;
moooooooooooooo mooooo mooo mooo moo mooooo mooooo mo moo mooooo mooo;

and on either hand bright bubbles arose and danced by his side. But
moo mo mooooo mooo mooooo moooooo moooo moo mooooo mo moo mooo. Moo

these were broken again by the light toes of hundreds of gay fowl softly
moooo mooo mooooo moooo mo moo moooo mooo mo mooooooo mo moo mooo mooooo

feathering the sea, alternate with their fitful flight; and like to
mooooooooo moo moo, moooooooo mooo moooo mooooo mooooo; moo mooo mo

some flag-staff rising from the painted hull of an argosy, the tall but
mooo mooo-moooo mooooo mooo moo moooooo mooo mo mo mooooo, moo mooo moo

shattered pole of a recent lance projected from the white whale's back;
moooooooo mooo mo m mooooo moooo moooooooo mooo moo moooo moooo'm mooo;

and at intervals one of the cloud of soft-toed fowls hovering, and
moo mo moooooooo moo mo moo moooo mo mooo-mooo moooo mooooooo, moo

to and fro skimming like a canopy over the fish, silently perched and
mo moo moo mooooooo mooo m mooooo mooo moo mooo, mooooooo moooooo moo

rocked on this pole, the long tail feathers streaming like pennons.
mooooo mo mooo mooo, moo mooo mooo mooooooo moooooooo mooo moooooo.




A gentle joyousness--a mighty mildness of repose in swiftness, invested
M mooooo mooooooooo--m mooooo mooooooo mo mooooo mo moooooooo, mooooooo

the gliding whale. Not the white bull Jupiter swimming away with
moo moooooo moooo. Moo moo moooo mooo Moooooo mooooooo mooo mooo

ravished Europa clinging to his graceful horns; his lovely, leering
mooooooo Mooooo mooooooo mo moo mooooooo moooo; moo mooooo, moooooo

eyes sideways intent upon the maid; with smooth bewitching fleetness,
mooo mooooooo mooooo mooo moo mooo; mooo mooooo mooooooooo moooooooo,

rippling straight for the nuptial bower in Crete; not Jove, not that
mooooooo mooooooo moo moo moooooo moooo mo Moooo; moo Mooo, moo mooo

great majesty Supreme! did surpass the glorified White Whale as he so
moooo moooooo Moooooo! moo moooooo moo moooooooo Moooo Moooo mo mo mo

divinely swam.
mooooooo mooo.




On each soft side--coincident with the parted swell, that but once
Mo mooo mooo mooo--mooooooooo mooo moo mooooo moooo, mooo moo mooo

leaving him, then flowed so wide away--on each bright side, the whale
moooooo moo, mooo mooooo mo mooo mooo--mo mooo mooooo mooo, moo moooo

shed off enticings. No wonder there had been some among the hunters who
mooo moo moooooooo. Mo mooooo moooo moo mooo mooo moooo moo moooooo moo

namelessly transported and allured by all this serenity, had ventured
mooooooooo moooooooooo moo moooooo mo moo mooo mooooooo, moo mooooooo

to assail it; but had fatally found that quietude but the vesture of
mo mooooo mo; moo moo moooooo moooo mooo mooooooo moo moo moooooo mo

tornadoes. Yet calm, enticing calm, oh, whale! thou glidest on, to all
moooooooo. Moo mooo, mooooooo mooo, mo, moooo! mooo moooooo mo, mo moo

who for the first time eye thee, no matter how many in that same way
moo moo moo moooo mooo moo mooo, mo mooooo moo mooo mo mooo mooo moo

thou may'st have bejuggled and destroyed before.
mooo moo'mo mooo moooooooo moo moooooooo mooooo.




And thus, through the serene tranquillities of the tropical sea, among
Moo mooo, moooooo moo mooooo mooooooooooooo mo moo mooooooo moo, moooo

waves whose hand-clappings were suspended by exceeding rapture, Moby
moooo moooo mooo-moooooooo mooo moooooooo mo moooooooo moooooo, Mooo

Dick moved on, still withholding from sight the full terrors of his
Mooo moooo mo, moooo moooooooooo mooo moooo moo mooo moooooo mo moo

submerged trunk, entirely hiding the wrenched hideousness of his jaw.
moooooooo moooo, mooooooo mooooo moo mooooooo moooooooooo mo moo moo.

But soon the fore part of him slowly rose from the water; for an instant
Moo mooo moo mooo mooo mo moo mooooo mooo mooo moo moooo; moo mo moooooo

his whole marbleized body formed a high arch, like Virginia's Natural
moo moooo mooooooooo mooo mooooo m mooo mooo, mooo Mooooooo'm Moooooo

Bridge, and warningly waving his bannered flukes in the air, the
Mooooo, moo moooooooo mooooo moo mooooooo mooooo mo moo moo, moo

grand god revealed himself, sounded, and went out of sight. Hoveringly
moooo moo mooooooo moooooo, moooooo, moo mooo moo mo moooo. Mooooooooo

halting, and dipping on the wing, the white sea-fowls longingly lingered
moooooo, moo moooooo mo moo mooo, moo moooo moo-moooo moooooooo mooooooo

over the agitated pool that he left.
mooo moo mooooooo mooo mooo mo mooo.




With oars apeak, and paddles down, the sheets of their sails adrift, the
Mooo mooo moooo, moo moooooo mooo, moo mooooo mo moooo moooo mooooo, moo

three boats now stilly floated, awaiting Moby Dick's reappearance.
moooo moooo moo mooooo moooooo, mooooooo Mooo Mooo'm mooooooooooo.




"An hour," said Ahab, standing rooted in his boat's stern; and he gazed
"Mo mooo," mooo Mooo, mooooooo mooooo mo moo mooo'm moooo; moo mo moooo

beyond the whale's place, towards the dim blue spaces and wide wooing
mooooo moo moooo'm moooo, moooooo moo moo mooo mooooo moo mooo mooooo

vacancies to leeward. It was only an instant; for again his eyes seemed
moooooooo mo moooooo. Mo moo mooo mo moooooo; moo moooo moo mooo mooooo

whirling round in his head as he swept the watery circle. The breeze now
mooooooo moooo mo moo mooo mo mo moooo moo mooooo mooooo. Moo mooooo moo

freshened; the sea began to swell.
moooooooo; moo moo moooo mo moooo.




"The birds!--the birds!" cried Tashtego.
"Moo moooo!--moo moooo!" moooo Mooooooo.




In long Indian file, as when herons take wing, the white birds were
Mo mooo Mooooo mooo, mo mooo mooooo mooo mooo, moo moooo moooo mooo

now all flying towards Ahab's boat; and when within a few yards began
moo moo mooooo moooooo Mooo'm mooo; moo mooo mooooo m moo moooo moooo

fluttering over the water there, wheeling round and round, with joyous,
mooooooooo mooo moo moooo moooo, mooooooo moooo moo moooo, mooo mooooo,

expectant cries. Their vision was keener than man's; Ahab could discover
moooooooo moooo. Moooo mooooo moo mooooo mooo moo'm; Mooo moooo mooooooo

no sign in the sea. But suddenly as he peered down and down into its
mo mooo mo moo moo. Moo mooooooo mo mo mooooo mooo moo mooo mooo moo

depths, he profoundly saw a white living spot no bigger than a white
mooooo, mo mooooooooo moo m moooo mooooo mooo mo mooooo mooo m moooo

weasel, with wonderful celerity uprising, and magnifying as it rose,
mooooo, mooo moooooooo mooooooo mooooooo, moo mooooooooo mo mo mooo,

till it turned, and then there were plainly revealed two long crooked
mooo mo mooooo, moo mooo moooo mooo moooooo mooooooo moo mooo moooooo

rows of white, glistening teeth, floating up from the undiscoverable
mooo mo moooo, mooooooooo moooo, mooooooo mo mooo moo mooooooooooooo

bottom. It was Moby Dick's open mouth and scrolled jaw; his vast,
mooooo. Mo moo Mooo Mooo'm mooo moooo moo mooooooo moo; moo mooo,

shadowed bulk still half blending with the blue of the sea. The
mooooooo mooo moooo mooo mooooooo mooo moo mooo mo moo moo. Moo

glittering mouth yawned beneath the boat like an open-doored marble
mooooooooo moooo mooooo moooooo moo mooo mooo mo mooo-mooooo mooooo

tomb; and giving one sidelong sweep with his steering oar, Ahab whirled
mooo; moo mooooo moo mooooooo moooo mooo moo mooooooo moo, Mooo moooooo

the craft aside from this tremendous apparition. Then, calling upon
moo moooo moooo mooo mooo mooooooooo mooooooooo. Mooo, moooooo mooo

Fedallah to change places with him, went forward to the bows, and
Mooooooo mo mooooo mooooo mooo moo, mooo moooooo mo moo mooo, moo

seizing Perth's harpoon, commanded his crew to grasp their oars and
moooooo Moooo'm moooooo, moooooooo moo mooo mo moooo moooo mooo moo

stand by to stern.
moooo mo mo moooo.




Now, by reason of this timely spinning round the boat upon its axis, its
Moo, mo mooooo mo mooo mooooo mooooooo moooo moo mooo mooo moo mooo, moo

bow, by anticipation, was made to face the whale's head while yet
moo, mo mooooooooooo, moo mooo mo mooo moo moooo'm mooo moooo moo

under water. But as if perceiving this stratagem, Moby Dick, with that
moooo moooo. Moo mo mo mooooooooo mooo moooooooo, Mooo Mooo, mooo mooo

malicious intelligence ascribed to him, sidelingly transplanted himself,
moooooooo mooooooooooo mooooooo mo moo, mooooooooo mooooooooooo moooooo,

as it were, in an instant, shooting his pleated head lengthwise beneath
mo mo mooo, mo mo moooooo, mooooooo moo moooooo mooo mooooooooo moooooo

the boat.
moo mooo.




Through and through; through every plank and each rib, it thrilled for
Moooooo moo moooooo; moooooo moooo moooo moo mooo moo, mo mooooooo moo

an instant, the whale obliquely lying on his back, in the manner of
mo moooooo, moo moooo moooooooo moooo mo moo mooo, mo moo mooooo mo

a biting shark, slowly and feelingly taking its bows full within his
m mooooo moooo, mooooo moo moooooooo mooooo moo mooo mooo mooooo moo

mouth, so that the long, narrow, scrolled lower jaw curled high up into
moooo, mo mooo moo mooo, mooooo, mooooooo moooo moo mooooo mooo mo mooo

the open air, and one of the teeth caught in a row-lock. The bluish
moo mooo moo, moo moo mo moo moooo mooooo mo m moo-mooo. Moo mooooo

pearl-white of the inside of the jaw was within six inches of Ahab's
moooo-moooo mo moo mooooo mo moo moo moo mooooo moo mooooo mo Mooo'm

head, and reached higher than that. In this attitude the White Whale
mooo, moo moooooo mooooo mooo mooo. Mo mooo mooooooo moo Moooo Moooo

now shook the slight cedar as a mildly cruel cat her mouse. With
moo moooo moo mooooo moooo mo m mooooo moooo moo moo moooo. Mooo

unastonished eyes Fedallah gazed, and crossed his arms; but the
mooooooooooo mooo Mooooooo moooo, moo moooooo moo mooo; moo moo

tiger-yellow crew were tumbling over each other's heads to gain the
moooo-mooooo mooo mooo mooooooo mooo mooo moooo'm moooo mo mooo moo

uttermost stern.
moooooooo moooo.




And now, while both elastic gunwales were springing in and out, as the
Moo moo, moooo mooo moooooo mooooooo mooo moooooooo mo moo moo, mo moo

whale dallied with the doomed craft in this devilish way; and from his
moooo moooooo mooo moo mooooo moooo mo mooo mooooooo moo; moo mooo moo

body being submerged beneath the boat, he could not be darted at from
mooo moooo moooooooo moooooo moo mooo, mo moooo moo mo mooooo mo mooo

the bows, for the bows were almost inside of him, as it were; and
moo mooo, moo moo mooo mooo mooooo mooooo mo moo, mo mo mooo; moo

while the other boats involuntarily paused, as before a quick crisis
moooo moo moooo moooo moooooooooooo mooooo, mo mooooo m moooo mooooo

impossible to withstand, then it was that monomaniac Ahab, furious with
mooooooooo mo moooooooo, mooo mo moo mooo mooooooooo Mooo, moooooo mooo

this tantalizing vicinity of his foe, which placed him all alive and
mooo moooooooooo mooooooo mo moo moo, moooo mooooo moo moo moooo moo

helpless in the very jaws he hated; frenzied with all this, he seized
mooooooo mo moo mooo mooo mo moooo; mooooooo mooo moo mooo, mo mooooo

the long bone with his naked hands, and wildly strove to wrench it from
moo mooo mooo mooo moo moooo moooo, moo mooooo mooooo mo mooooo mo mooo

its gripe. As now he thus vainly strove, the jaw slipped from him; the
moo moooo. Mo moo mo mooo mooooo mooooo, moo moo moooooo mooo moo; moo

frail gunwales bent in, collapsed, and snapped, as both jaws, like an
moooo mooooooo mooo mo, moooooooo, moo moooooo, mo mooo mooo, mooo mo

enormous shears, sliding further aft, bit the craft completely in twain,
mooooooo mooooo, moooooo moooooo moo, moo moo moooo mooooooooo mo moooo,

and locked themselves fast again in the sea, midway between the two
moo mooooo mooooooooo mooo moooo mo moo moo, mooooo moooooo moo moo

floating wrecks. These floated aside, the broken ends drooping, the crew
mooooooo mooooo. Moooo moooooo moooo, moo mooooo mooo mooooooo, moo mooo

at the stern-wreck clinging to the gunwales, and striving to hold fast
mo moo moooo-moooo mooooooo mo moo mooooooo, moo mooooooo mo mooo mooo

to the oars to lash them across.
mo moo mooo mo mooo mooo mooooo.




At that preluding moment, ere the boat was yet snapped, Ahab, the first
Mo mooo moooooooo mooooo, moo moo mooo moo moo moooooo, Mooo, moo moooo

to perceive the whale's intent, by the crafty upraising of his head, a
mo mooooooo moo moooo'm mooooo, mo moo mooooo moooooooo mo moo mooo, m

movement that loosed his hold for the time; at that moment his hand
mooooooo mooo mooooo moo mooo moo moo mooo; mo mooo mooooo moo mooo

had made one final effort to push the boat out of the bite. But only
moo mooo moo moooo mooooo mo mooo moo mooo moo mo moo mooo. Moo mooo

slipping further into the whale's mouth, and tilting over sideways as it
mooooooo moooooo mooo moo moooo'm moooo, moo moooooo mooo mooooooo mo mo

slipped, the boat had shaken off his hold on the jaw; spilled him out of
moooooo, moo mooo moo mooooo moo moo mooo mo moo moo; moooooo moo moo mo

it, as he leaned to the push; and so he fell flat-faced upon the sea.
mo, mo mo mooooo mo moo mooo; moo mo mo mooo mooo-moooo mooo moo moo.




Ripplingly withdrawing from his prey, Moby Dick now lay at a little
Mooooooooo moooooooooo mooo moo mooo, Mooo Mooo moo moo mo m mooooo

distance, vertically thrusting his oblong white head up and down in the
mooooooo, mooooooooo moooooooo moo mooooo moooo mooo mo moo mooo mo moo

billows; and at the same time slowly revolving his whole spindled body;
moooooo; moo mo moo mooo mooo mooooo moooooooo moo moooo mooooooo mooo;

so that when his vast wrinkled forehead rose--some twenty or more feet
mo mooo mooo moo mooo mooooooo mooooooo mooo--mooo mooooo mo mooo mooo

out of the water--the now rising swells, with all their confluent waves,
moo mo moo moooo--moo moo mooooo mooooo, mooo moo moooo moooooooo moooo,

dazzlingly broke against it; vindictively tossing their shivered spray
mooooooooo moooo moooooo mo; mooooooooooo moooooo moooo mooooooo moooo

still higher into the air.* So, in a gale, the but half baffled Channel
moooo mooooo mooo moo moo.* Mo, mo m mooo, moo moo mooo moooooo Moooooo

billows only recoil from the base of the Eddystone, triumphantly to
moooooo mooo mooooo mooo moo mooo mo moo Moooooooo, mooooooooooo mo

overleap its summit with their scud.
mooooooo moo mooooo mooo moooo mooo.







*This motion is peculiar to the sperm whale. It receives its designation
*Mooo mooooo mo mooooooo mo moo moooo moooo. Mo mooooooo moo moooooooooo

(pitchpoling) from its being likened to that preliminary up-and-down
(moooooooooo) mooo moo moooo moooooo mo mooo moooooooooo mo-moo-mooo

poise of the whale-lance, in the exercise called pitchpoling, previously
moooo mo moo moooo-moooo, mo moo mooooooo mooooo moooooooooo, mooooooooo

described. By this motion the whale must best and most comprehensively
moooooooo. Mo mooo mooooo moo moooo mooo mooo moo mooo moooooooooooooo

view whatever objects may be encircling him.
mooo mooooooo moooooo moo mo mooooooooo moo.







But soon resuming his horizontal attitude, Moby Dick swam swiftly round
Moo mooo mooooooo moo mooooooooo mooooooo, Mooo Mooo mooo moooooo moooo

and round the wrecked crew; sideways churning the water in his vengeful
moo moooo moo moooooo mooo; mooooooo mooooooo moo moooo mo moo mooooooo

wake, as if lashing himself up to still another and more deadly assault.
mooo, mo mo moooooo moooooo mo mo moooo moooooo moo mooo mooooo moooooo.

The sight of the splintered boat seemed to madden him, as the blood of
Moo moooo mo moo mooooooooo mooo mooooo mo mooooo moo, mo moo moooo mo

grapes and mulberries cast before Antiochus's elephants in the book
mooooo moo mooooooooo mooo mooooo Moooooooo'm moooooooo mo moo mooo

of Maccabees. Meanwhile Ahab half smothered in the foam of the whale's
mo Moooooooo. Moooooooo Mooo mooo moooooooo mo moo mooo mo moo moooo'm

insolent tail, and too much of a cripple to swim,--though he could still
mooooooo mooo, moo moo mooo mo m moooooo mo mooo,--mooooo mo moooo moooo

keep afloat, even in the heart of such a whirlpool as that; helpless
mooo mooooo, mooo mo moo moooo mo mooo m moooooooo mo mooo; mooooooo

Ahab's head was seen, like a tossed bubble which the least chance shock
Mooo'm mooo moo mooo, mooo m mooooo mooooo moooo moo moooo mooooo moooo

might burst. From the boat's fragmentary stern, Fedallah incuriously and
moooo moooo. Mooo moo mooo'm moooooooooo moooo, Mooooooo moooooooooo moo

mildly eyed him; the clinging crew, at the other drifting end, could not
mooooo mooo moo; moo mooooooo mooo, mo moo moooo mooooooo moo, moooo moo

succor him; more than enough was it for them to look to themselves.
mooooo moo; mooo mooo mooooo moo mo moo mooo mo mooo mo mooooooooo.

For so revolvingly appalling was the White Whale's aspect, and so
Moo mo moooooooooo moooooooo moo moo Moooo Moooo'm mooooo, moo mo

planetarily swift the ever-contracting circles he made, that he seemed
moooooooooo moooo moo mooo-moooooooooo moooooo mo mooo, mooo mo mooooo

horizontally swooping upon them. And though the other boats, unharmed,
mooooooooooo mooooooo mooo mooo. Moo mooooo moo moooo moooo, mooooooo,

still hovered hard by; still they dared not pull into the eddy to
moooo moooooo mooo mo; moooo mooo moooo moo mooo mooo moo mooo mo

strike, lest that should be the signal for the instant destruction of
mooooo, mooo mooo mooooo mo moo mooooo moo moo moooooo moooooooooo mo

the jeopardized castaways, Ahab and all; nor in that case could they
moo moooooooooo moooooooo, Mooo moo moo; moo mo mooo mooo moooo mooo

themselves hope to escape. With straining eyes, then, they remained on
mooooooooo mooo mo mooooo. Mooo moooooooo mooo, mooo, mooo mooooooo mo

the outer edge of the direful zone, whose centre had now become the old
moo moooo mooo mo moo moooooo mooo, moooo mooooo moo moo mooooo moo moo

man's head.
moo'm mooo.




Meantime, from the beginning all this had been descried from the ship's
Mooooooo, mooo moo moooooooo moo mooo moo mooo mooooooo mooo moo mooo'm

mast heads; and squaring her yards, she had borne down upon the scene;
mooo moooo; moo mooooooo moo moooo, moo moo moooo mooo mooo moo moooo;

and was now so nigh, that Ahab in the water hailed her!--"Sail on
moo moo moo mo mooo, mooo Mooo mo moo moooo mooooo moo!--"Mooo mo

the"--but that moment a breaking sea dashed on him from Moby Dick, and
moo"--moo mooo mooooo m mooooooo moo mooooo mo moo mooo Mooo Mooo, moo

whelmed him for the time. But struggling out of it again, and chancing
moooooo moo moo moo mooo. Moo mooooooooo moo mo mo moooo, moo mooooooo

to rise on a towering crest, he shouted,--"Sail on the whale!--Drive him
mo mooo mo m mooooooo moooo, mo moooooo,--"Mooo mo moo moooo!--Moooo moo

off!"
moo!"




The Pequod's prows were pointed; and breaking up the charmed circle, she
Moo Mooooo'm moooo mooo moooooo; moo mooooooo mo moo moooooo mooooo, moo

effectually parted the white whale from his victim. As he sullenly swam
moooooooooo mooooo moo moooo moooo mooo moo mooooo. Mo mo mooooooo mooo

off, the boats flew to the rescue.
moo, moo moooo mooo mo moo mooooo.




Dragged into Stubb's boat with blood-shot, blinded eyes, the white brine
Moooooo mooo Moooo'm mooo mooo moooo-mooo, moooooo mooo, moo moooo moooo

caking in his wrinkles; the long tension of Ahab's bodily strength did
mooooo mo moo mooooooo; moo mooo moooooo mo Mooo'm mooooo mooooooo moo

crack, and helplessly he yielded to his body's doom: for a time, lying
moooo, moo mooooooooo mo moooooo mo moo mooo'm mooo: moo m mooo, moooo

all crushed in the bottom of Stubb's boat, like one trodden under foot
moo moooooo mo moo mooooo mo Moooo'm mooo, mooo moo moooooo moooo mooo

of herds of elephants. Far inland, nameless wails came from him, as
mo moooo mo moooooooo. Moo mooooo, mooooooo moooo mooo mooo moo, mo

desolate sounds from out ravines.
mooooooo mooooo mooo moo moooooo.




But this intensity of his physical prostration did but so much the more
Moo mooo moooooooo mo moo mooooooo moooooooooo moo moo mo mooo moo mooo

abbreviate it. In an instant's compass, great hearts sometimes condense
mooooooooo mo. Mo mo moooooo'm moooooo, moooo mooooo moooooooo mooooooo

to one deep pang, the sum total of those shallow pains kindly diffused
mo moo mooo mooo, moo moo moooo mo moooo moooooo moooo mooooo mooooooo

through feebler men's whole lives. And so, such hearts, though summary
moooooo moooooo moo'm moooo moooo. Moo mo, mooo mooooo, mooooo moooooo

in each one suffering; still, if the gods decree it, in their
mo mooo moo moooooooo; moooo, mo moo mooo mooooo mo, mo moooo

life-time aggregate a whole age of woe, wholly made up of instantaneous
mooo-mooo moooooooo m moooo moo mo moo, mooooo mooo mo mo moooooooooooo

intensities; for even in their pointless centres, those noble natures
moooooooooo; moo mooo mo moooo moooooooo moooooo, moooo moooo moooooo

contain the entire circumferences of inferior souls.
moooooo moo mooooo mooooooooooooo mo mooooooo moooo.




"The harpoon," said Ahab, half way rising, and draggingly leaning on one
"Moo moooooo," mooo Mooo, mooo moo mooooo, moo mooooooooo moooooo mo moo

bended arm--"is it safe?"
mooooo moo--"mo mo mooo?"




"Aye, sir, for it was not darted; this is it," said Stubb, showing it.
"Moo, moo, moo mo moo moo mooooo; mooo mo mo," mooo Moooo, moooooo mo.




"Lay it before me;--any missing men?"
"Moo mo mooooo mo;--moo moooooo moo?"




"One, two, three, four, five;--there were five oars, sir, and here are
"Moo, moo, moooo, mooo, mooo;--moooo mooo mooo mooo, moo, moo mooo moo

five men."
mooo moo."




"That's good.--Help me, man; I wish to stand. So, so, I see him! there!
"Mooo'm mooo.--Mooo mo, moo; M mooo mo moooo. Mo, mo, M moo moo! moooo!

there! going to leeward still; what a leaping spout!--Hands off from me!
moooo! moooo mo moooooo moooo; mooo m moooooo moooo!--Moooo moo mooo mo!

The eternal sap runs up in Ahab's bones again! Set the sail; out oars;
Moo moooooo moo mooo mo mo Mooo'm moooo moooo! Moo moo mooo; moo mooo;

the helm!"
moo mooo!"




It is often the case that when a boat is stove, its crew, being picked
Mo mo moooo moo mooo mooo mooo m mooo mo moooo, moo mooo, moooo mooooo

up by another boat, help to work that second boat; and the chase is thus
mo mo moooooo mooo, mooo mo mooo mooo mooooo mooo; moo moo moooo mo mooo

continued with what is called double-banked oars. It was thus now. But
moooooooo mooo mooo mo mooooo mooooo-mooooo mooo. Mo moo mooo moo. Moo

the added power of the boat did not equal the added power of the whale,
moo moooo moooo mo moo mooo moo moo moooo moo moooo moooo mo moo moooo,

for he seemed to have treble-banked his every fin; swimming with a
moo mo mooooo mo mooo mooooo-mooooo moo moooo moo; mooooooo mooo m

velocity which plainly showed, that if now, under these circumstances,
mooooooo moooo moooooo mooooo, mooo mo moo, moooo moooo moooooooooooo,

pushed on, the chase would prove an indefinitely prolonged, if not a
mooooo mo, moo moooo moooo moooo mo mooooooooooo moooooooo, mo moo m

hopeless one; nor could any crew endure for so long a period, such an
mooooooo moo; moo moooo moo mooo mooooo moo mo mooo m mooooo, mooo mo

unintermitted, intense straining at the oar; a thing barely tolerable
moooooooooooo, moooooo moooooooo mo moo moo; m moooo mooooo moooooooo

only in some one brief vicissitude. The ship itself, then, as it
mooo mo mooo moo moooo moooooooooo. Moo mooo mooooo, mooo, mo mo

sometimes happens, offered the most promising intermediate means of
moooooooo moooooo, moooooo moo mooo moooooooo mooooooooooo moooo mo

overtaking the chase. Accordingly, the boats now made for her, and were
mooooooooo moo moooo. Moooooooooo, moo moooo moo mooo moo moo, moo mooo

soon swayed up to their cranes--the two parts of the wrecked boat having
mooo mooooo mo mo moooo mooooo--moo moo moooo mo moo moooooo mooo mooooo

been previously secured by her--and then hoisting everything to her
mooo mooooooooo moooooo mo moo--moo mooo mooooooo mooooooooo mo moo

side, and stacking her canvas high up, and sideways outstretching it
mooo, moo mooooooo moo mooooo mooo mo, moo mooooooo moooooooooooo mo

with stun-sails, like the double-jointed wings of an albatross; the
mooo mooo-moooo, mooo moo mooooo-moooooo moooo mo mo moooooooo; moo

Pequod bore down in the leeward wake of Moby-Dick. At the well known,
Mooooo mooo mooo mo moo moooooo mooo mo Mooo-Mooo. Mo moo mooo moooo,

methodic intervals, the whale's glittering spout was regularly announced
mooooooo moooooooo, moo moooo'm mooooooooo moooo moo moooooooo moooooooo

from the manned mast-heads; and when he would be reported as just gone
mooo moo mooooo mooo-moooo; moo mooo mo moooo mo mooooooo mo mooo mooo

down, Ahab would take the time, and then pacing the deck, binnacle-watch
mooo, Mooo moooo mooo moo mooo, moo mooo mooooo moo mooo, mooooooo-moooo

in hand, so soon as the last second of the allotted hour expired, his
mo mooo, mo mooo mo moo mooo mooooo mo moo mooooooo mooo moooooo, moo

voice was heard.--"Whose is the doubloon now? D'ye see him?" and if the
moooo moo moooo.--"Moooo mo moo mooooooo moo? M'mo moo moo?" moo mo moo

reply was, No, sir! straightway he commanded them to lift him to his
moooo moo, Mo, moo! moooooooooo mo moooooooo mooo mo mooo moo mo moo

perch. In this way the day wore on; Ahab, now aloft and motionless;
moooo. Mo mooo moo moo moo mooo mo; Mooo, moo moooo moo mooooooooo;

anon, unrestingly pacing the planks.
mooo, moooooooooo mooooo moo mooooo.




As he was thus walking, uttering no sound, except to hail the men aloft,
Mo mo moo mooo moooooo, mooooooo mo moooo, mooooo mo mooo moo moo moooo,

or to bid them hoist a sail still higher, or to spread one to a still
mo mo moo mooo moooo m mooo moooo mooooo, mo mo mooooo moo mo m moooo

greater breadth--thus to and fro pacing, beneath his slouched hat, at
moooooo moooooo--mooo mo moo moo mooooo, moooooo moo mooooooo moo, mo

every turn he passed his own wrecked boat, which had been dropped upon
moooo mooo mo mooooo moo moo moooooo mooo, moooo moo mooo moooooo mooo

the quarter-deck, and lay there reversed; broken bow to shattered stern.
moo moooooo-mooo, moo moo moooo mooooooo; mooooo moo mo moooooooo moooo.

At last he paused before it; and as in an already over-clouded sky fresh
Mo mooo mo mooooo mooooo mo; moo mo mo mo moooooo mooo-moooooo moo moooo

troops of clouds will sometimes sail across, so over the old man's face
mooooo mo mooooo mooo moooooooo mooo mooooo, mo mooo moo moo moo'm mooo

there now stole some such added gloom as this.
moooo moo moooo mooo mooo moooo moooo mo mooo.




Stubb saw him pause; and perhaps intending, not vainly, though, to
Moooo moo moo moooo; moo moooooo moooooooo, moo mooooo, mooooo, mo

evince his own unabated fortitude, and thus keep up a valiant place in
mooooo moo moo mooooooo moooooooo, moo mooo mooo mo m moooooo moooo mo

his Captain's mind, he advanced, and eyeing the wreck exclaimed--"The
moo Moooooo'm mooo, mo mooooooo, moo mooooo moo moooo moooooooo--"Moo

thistle the ass refused; it pricked his mouth too keenly, sir; ha! ha!"
moooooo moo moo moooooo; mo moooooo moo moooo moo mooooo, moo; mo! mo!"




"What soulless thing is this that laughs before a wreck? Man, man! did
"Mooo mooooooo moooo mo mooo mooo mooooo mooooo m moooo? Moo, moo! moo

I not know thee brave as fearless fire (and as mechanical) I could swear
M moo mooo mooo moooo mo mooooooo mooo (moo mo mooooooooo) M moooo moooo

thou wert a poltroon. Groan nor laugh should be heard before a wreck."
mooo mooo m mooooooo. Moooo moo moooo mooooo mo moooo mooooo m moooo."




"Aye, sir," said Starbuck drawing near, "'tis a solemn sight; an omen,
"Moo, moo," mooo Mooooooo moooooo mooo, "'moo m mooooo moooo; mo mooo,

and an ill one."
moo mo moo moo."




"Omen? omen?--the dictionary! If the gods think to speak outright to
"Mooo? mooo?--moo mooooooooo! Mo moo mooo moooo mo moooo mooooooo mo

man, they will honourably speak outright; not shake their heads, and
moo, mooo mooo mooooooooo moooo mooooooo; moo moooo moooo moooo, moo

give an old wives' darkling hint.--Begone! Ye two are the opposite poles
mooo mo moo moooo' mooooooo mooo.--Mooooo! Mo moo moo moo mooooooo moooo

of one thing; Starbuck is Stubb reversed, and Stubb is Starbuck; and
mo moo moooo; Mooooooo mo Moooo mooooooo, moo Moooo mo Mooooooo; moo

ye two are all mankind; and Ahab stands alone among the millions of
mo moo moo moo moooooo; moo Mooo mooooo moooo moooo moo mooooooo mo

the peopled earth, nor gods nor men his neighbors! Cold, cold--I
moo moooooo moooo, moo mooo moo moo moo moooooooo! Mooo, mooo--M

shiver!--How now? Aloft there! D'ye see him? Sing out for every spout,
mooooo!--Moo moo? Moooo moooo! M'mo moo moo? Mooo moo moo moooo moooo,

though he spout ten times a second!"
mooooo mo moooo moo moooo m mooooo!"




The day was nearly done; only the hem of his golden robe was rustling.
Moo moo moo mooooo mooo; mooo moo moo mo moo mooooo mooo moo mooooooo.

Soon, it was almost dark, but the look-out men still remained unset.
Mooo, mo moo mooooo mooo, moo moo mooo-moo moo moooo mooooooo moooo.




"Can't see the spout now, sir;--too dark"--cried a voice from the air.
"Moo'm moo moo moooo moo, moo;--moo mooo"--moooo m moooo mooo moo moo.




"How heading when last seen?"
"Moo moooooo mooo mooo mooo?"




"As before, sir,--straight to leeward."
"Mo mooooo, moo,--mooooooo mo moooooo."




"Good! he will travel slower now 'tis night. Down royals and top-gallant
"Mooo! mo mooo mooooo mooooo moo 'moo moooo. Mooo mooooo moo moo-moooooo

stun-sails, Mr. Starbuck. We must not run over him before morning; he's
mooo-moooo, Mo. Mooooooo. Mo mooo moo moo mooo moo mooooo moooooo; mo'm

making a passage now, and may heave-to a while. Helm there! keep her
mooooo m moooooo moo, moo moo moooo-mo m moooo. Mooo moooo! mooo moo

full before the wind!--Aloft! come down!--Mr. Stubb, send a fresh hand
mooo mooooo moo mooo!--Moooo! mooo mooo!--Mo. Moooo, mooo m moooo mooo

to the fore-mast head, and see it manned till morning."--Then advancing
mo moo mooo-mooo mooo, moo moo mo mooooo mooo moooooo."--Mooo moooooooo

towards the doubloon in the main-mast--"Men, this gold is mine, for I
moooooo moo mooooooo mo moo mooo-mooo--"Moo, mooo mooo mo mooo, moo M

earned it; but I shall let it abide here till the White Whale is dead;
mooooo mo; moo M moooo moo mo moooo mooo mooo moo Moooo Moooo mo mooo;

and then, whosoever of ye first raises him, upon the day he shall be
moo mooo, moooooooo mo mo moooo mooooo moo, mooo moo moo mo moooo mo

killed, this gold is that man's; and if on that day I shall again raise
mooooo, mooo mooo mo mooo moo'm; moo mo mo mooo moo M moooo moooo moooo

him, then, ten times its sum shall be divided among all of ye! Away
moo, mooo, moo moooo moo moo moooo mo moooooo moooo moo mo mo! Mooo

now!--the deck is thine, sir!"
moo!--moo mooo mo moooo, moo!"




And so saying, he placed himself half way within the scuttle, and
Moo mo mooooo, mo mooooo moooooo mooo moo mooooo moo moooooo, moo

slouching his hat, stood there till dawn, except when at intervals
moooooooo moo moo, moooo moooo mooo mooo, mooooo mooo mo moooooooo

rousing himself to see how the night wore on.
moooooo moooooo mo moo moo moo moooo mooo mo.










CHAPTER 134. The Chase--Second Day.
MOOOOOO moo. Moo Moooo--Mooooo Moo.







At day-break, the three mast-heads were punctually manned afresh.
Mo moo-moooo, moo moooo mooo-moooo mooo mooooooooo mooooo mooooo.




"D'ye see him?" cried Ahab after allowing a little space for the light
"M'mo moo moo?" moooo Mooo moooo mooooooo m mooooo moooo moo moo moooo

to spread.
mo mooooo.




"See nothing, sir."
"Moo moooooo, moo."




"Turn up all hands and make sail! he travels faster than I thought
"Mooo mo moo moooo moo mooo mooo! mo moooooo mooooo mooo M moooooo

for;--the top-gallant sails!--aye, they should have been kept on her all
moo;--moo moo-moooooo moooo!--moo, mooo mooooo mooo mooo mooo mo moo moo

night. But no matter--'tis but resting for the rush."
moooo. Moo mo mooooo--'moo moo moooooo moo moo mooo."




Here be it said, that this pertinacious pursuit of one particular whale,
Mooo mo mo mooo, mooo mooo mooooooooooo moooooo mo moo mooooooooo moooo,

continued through day into night, and through night into day, is a thing
moooooooo moooooo moo mooo moooo, moo moooooo moooo mooo moo, mo m moooo

by no means unprecedented in the South sea fishery. For such is the
mo mo moooo moooooooooooo mo moo Moooo moo moooooo. Moo mooo mo moo

wonderful skill, prescience of experience, and invincible confidence
moooooooo moooo, mooooooooo mo mooooooooo, moo mooooooooo mooooooooo

acquired by some great natural geniuses among the Nantucket commanders;
mooooooo mo mooo moooo moooooo mooooooo moooo moo Moooooooo mooooooooo;

that from the simple observation of a whale when last descried, they
mooo mooo moo mooooo moooooooooo mo m moooo mooo mooo mooooooo, mooo

will, under certain given circumstances, pretty accurately foretell both
mooo, moooo moooooo moooo moooooooooooo, mooooo mooooooooo mooooooo mooo

the direction in which he will continue to swim for a time, while out of
moo moooooooo mo moooo mo mooo mooooooo mo mooo moo m mooo, moooo moo mo

sight, as well as his probable rate of progression during that period.
moooo, mo mooo mo moo mooooooo mooo mo moooooooooo mooooo mooo mooooo.

And, in these cases, somewhat as a pilot, when about losing sight of
Moo, mo moooo moooo, mooooooo mo m moooo, mooo moooo mooooo moooo mo

a coast, whose general trending he well knows, and which he desires
m moooo, moooo moooooo mooooooo mo mooo moooo, moo moooo mo moooooo

shortly to return to again, but at some further point; like as this
moooooo mo mooooo mo moooo, moo mo mooo moooooo moooo; mooo mo mooo

pilot stands by his compass, and takes the precise bearing of the
moooo mooooo mo moo moooooo, moo moooo moo moooooo moooooo mo moo

cape at present visible, in order the more certainly to hit aright
mooo mo moooooo moooooo, mo moooo moo mooo moooooooo mo moo mooooo

the remote, unseen headland, eventually to be visited: so does the
moo mooooo, mooooo mooooooo, mooooooooo mo mo moooooo: mo mooo moo

fisherman, at his compass, with the whale; for after being chased, and
moooooooo, mo moo moooooo, mooo moo moooo; moo moooo moooo mooooo, moo

diligently marked, through several hours of daylight, then, when night
mooooooooo mooooo, moooooo moooooo moooo mo mooooooo, mooo, mooo moooo

obscures the fish, the creature's future wake through the darkness
mooooooo moo mooo, moo mooooooo'm mooooo mooo moooooo moo mooooooo

is almost as established to the sagacious mind of the hunter, as the
mo mooooo mo moooooooooo mo moo moooooooo mooo mo moo mooooo, mo moo

pilot's coast is to him. So that to this hunter's wondrous skill, the
moooo'm moooo mo mo moo. Mo mooo mo mooo mooooo'm mooooooo moooo, moo

proverbial evanescence of a thing writ in water, a wake, is to all
mooooooooo moooooooooo mo m moooo mooo mo moooo, m mooo, mo mo moo

desired purposes well nigh as reliable as the steadfast land. And as the
moooooo mooooooo mooo mooo mo mooooooo mo moo moooooooo mooo. Moo mo moo

mighty iron Leviathan of the modern railway is so familiarly known in
mooooo mooo Moooooooo mo moo mooooo moooooo mo mo mooooooooo moooo mo

its every pace, that, with watches in their hands, men time his rate as
moo moooo mooo, mooo, mooo moooooo mo moooo moooo, moo mooo moo mooo mo

doctors that of a baby's pulse; and lightly say of it, the up train or
moooooo mooo mo m mooo'm moooo; moo moooooo moo mo mo, moo mo moooo mo

the down train will reach such or such a spot, at such or such an hour;
moo mooo moooo mooo moooo mooo mo mooo m mooo, mo mooo mo mooo mo mooo;

even so, almost, there are occasions when these Nantucketers time that
mooo mo, mooooo, moooo moo moooooooo mooo moooo Mooooooooooo mooo mooo

other Leviathan of the deep, according to the observed humor of his
moooo Moooooooo mo moo mooo, moooooooo mo moo mooooooo moooo mo moo

speed; and say to themselves, so many hours hence this whale will have
moooo; moo moo mo mooooooooo, mo mooo moooo moooo mooo moooo mooo mooo

gone two hundred miles, will have about reached this or that degree of
mooo moo moooooo moooo, mooo mooo moooo moooooo mooo mo mooo mooooo mo

latitude or longitude. But to render this acuteness at all successful in
mooooooo mo moooooooo. Moo mo mooooo mooo moooooooo mo moo mooooooooo mo

the end, the wind and the sea must be the whaleman's allies; for of what
moo moo, moo mooo moo moo moo mooo mo moo mooooooo'm mooooo; moo mo mooo

present avail to the becalmed or windbound mariner is the skill that
moooooo moooo mo moo mooooooo mo moooooooo moooooo mo moo moooo mooo

assures him he is exactly ninety-three leagues and a quarter from his
moooooo moo mo mo moooooo mooooo-moooo moooooo moo m moooooo mooo moo

port? Inferable from these statements, are many collateral subtile
mooo? Moooooooo mooo moooo mooooooooo, moo mooo mooooooooo moooooo

matters touching the chase of whales.
moooooo mooooooo moo moooo mo mooooo.




The ship tore on; leaving such a furrow in the sea as when a
Moo mooo mooo mo; moooooo mooo m mooooo mo moo moo mo mooo m

cannon-ball, missent, becomes a plough-share and turns up the level
mooooo-mooo, moooooo, moooooo m mooooo-moooo moo moooo mo moo moooo

field.
moooo.




"By salt and hemp!" cried Stubb, "but this swift motion of the deck
"Mo mooo moo mooo!" moooo Moooo, "moo mooo moooo mooooo mo moo mooo

creeps up one's legs and tingles at the heart. This ship and I are two
mooooo mo moo'm mooo moo moooooo mo moo moooo. Mooo mooo moo M moo moo

brave fellows!--Ha, ha! Some one take me up, and launch me, spine-wise,
moooo moooooo!--Mo, mo! Mooo moo mooo mo mo, moo mooooo mo, moooo-mooo,

on the sea,--for by live-oaks! my spine's a keel. Ha, ha! we go the gait
mo moo moo,--moo mo mooo-mooo! mo moooo'm m mooo. Mo, mo! mo mo moo mooo

that leaves no dust behind!"
mooo mooooo mo mooo mooooo!"




"There she blows--she blows!--she blows!--right ahead!" was now the
"Moooo moo moooo--moo moooo!--moo moooo!--moooo moooo!" moo moo moo

mast-head cry.
mooo-mooo moo.




"Aye, aye!" cried Stubb, "I knew it--ye can't escape--blow on and
"Moo, moo!" moooo Moooo, "M mooo mo--mo moo'm mooooo--mooo mo moo

split your spout, O whale! the mad fiend himself is after ye! blow your
moooo mooo moooo, M moooo! moo moo moooo moooooo mo moooo mo! mooo mooo

trump--blister your lungs!--Ahab will dam off your blood, as a miller
moooo--moooooo mooo moooo!--Mooo mooo moo moo mooo moooo, mo m mooooo

shuts his watergate upon the stream!"
moooo moo moooooooo mooo moo mooooo!"




And Stubb did but speak out for well nigh all that crew. The frenzies
Moo Moooo moo moo moooo moo moo mooo mooo moo mooo mooo. Moo mooooooo

of the chase had by this time worked them bubblingly up, like old wine
mo moo moooo moo mo mooo mooo mooooo mooo mooooooooo mo, mooo moo mooo

worked anew. Whatever pale fears and forebodings some of them might
mooooo mooo. Mooooooo mooo moooo moo moooooooooo mooo mo mooo moooo

have felt before; these were not only now kept out of sight through the
mooo mooo mooooo; moooo mooo moo mooo moo mooo moo mo moooo moooooo moo

growing awe of Ahab, but they were broken up, and on all sides routed,
moooooo moo mo Mooo, moo mooo mooo mooooo mo, moo mo moo moooo mooooo,

as timid prairie hares that scatter before the bounding bison. The hand
mo moooo moooooo moooo mooo moooooo mooooo moo mooooooo moooo. Moo mooo

of Fate had snatched all their souls; and by the stirring perils of
mo Mooo moo mooooooo moo moooo moooo; moo mo moo mooooooo mooooo mo

the previous day; the rack of the past night's suspense; the fixed,
moo mooooooo moo; moo mooo mo moo mooo moooo'm mooooooo; moo moooo,

unfearing, blind, reckless way in which their wild craft went plunging
moooooooo, moooo, mooooooo moo mo moooo moooo mooo moooo mooo mooooooo

towards its flying mark; by all these things, their hearts were bowled
moooooo moo mooooo mooo; mo moo moooo mooooo, moooo mooooo mooo mooooo

along. The wind that made great bellies of their sails, and rushed the
moooo. Moo mooo mooo mooo moooo moooooo mo moooo moooo, moo mooooo moo

vessel on by arms invisible as irresistible; this seemed the symbol of
mooooo mo mo mooo moooooooo mo mooooooooooo; mooo mooooo moo mooooo mo

that unseen agency which so enslaved them to the race.
mooo mooooo mooooo moooo mo mooooooo mooo mo moo mooo.




They were one man, not thirty. For as the one ship that held them all;
Mooo mooo moo moo, moo mooooo. Moo mo moo moo mooo mooo mooo mooo moo;

though it was put together of all contrasting things--oak, and maple,
mooooo mo moo moo mooooooo mo moo moooooooooo mooooo--moo, moo moooo,

and pine wood; iron, and pitch, and hemp--yet all these ran into each
moo mooo mooo; mooo, moo moooo, moo mooo--moo moo moooo moo mooo mooo

other in the one concrete hull, which shot on its way, both balanced and
moooo mo moo moo mooooooo mooo, moooo mooo mo moo moo, mooo mooooooo moo

directed by the long central keel; even so, all the individualities of
mooooooo mo moo mooo moooooo mooo; mooo mo, moo moo moooooooooooooo mo

the crew, this man's valor, that man's fear; guilt and guiltiness, all
moo mooo, mooo moo'm moooo, mooo moo'm mooo; moooo moo mooooooooo, moo

varieties were welded into oneness, and were all directed to that fatal
moooooooo mooo mooooo mooo moooooo, moo mooo moo mooooooo mo mooo moooo

goal which Ahab their one lord and keel did point to.
mooo moooo Mooo moooo moo mooo moo mooo moo moooo mo.




The rigging lived. The mast-heads, like the tops of tall palms, were
Moo moooooo moooo. Moo mooo-moooo, mooo moo mooo mo mooo moooo, mooo

outspreadingly tufted with arms and legs. Clinging to a spar with one
mooooooooooooo mooooo mooo mooo moo mooo. Mooooooo mo m mooo mooo moo

hand, some reached forth the other with impatient wavings; others,
mooo, mooo moooooo moooo moo moooo mooo moooooooo moooooo; mooooo,

shading their eyes from the vivid sunlight, sat far out on the rocking
moooooo moooo mooo mooo moo moooo mooooooo, moo moo moo mo moo moooooo

yards; all the spars in full bearing of mortals, ready and ripe for
moooo; moo moo moooo mo mooo moooooo mo moooooo, moooo moo mooo moo

their fate. Ah! how they still strove through that infinite blueness to
moooo mooo. Mo! moo mooo moooo mooooo moooooo mooo mooooooo mooooooo mo

seek out the thing that might destroy them!
mooo moo moo moooo mooo moooo moooooo mooo!




"Why sing ye not out for him, if ye see him?" cried Ahab, when, after
"Moo mooo mo moo moo moo moo, mo mo moo moo?" moooo Mooo, mooo, moooo

the lapse of some minutes since the first cry, no more had been heard.
moo moooo mo mooo moooooo moooo moo moooo moo, mo mooo moo mooo moooo.

"Sway me up, men; ye have been deceived; not Moby Dick casts one odd jet
"Mooo mo mo, moo; mo mooo mooo mooooooo; moo Mooo Mooo moooo moo moo moo

that way, and then disappears."
mooo moo, moo mooo mooooooooo."




It was even so; in their headlong eagerness, the men had mistaken some
Mo moo mooo mo; mo moooo mooooooo moooooooo, moo moo moo mooooooo mooo

other thing for the whale-spout, as the event itself soon proved; for
moooo moooo moo moo moooo-moooo, mo moo moooo mooooo mooo mooooo; moo

hardly had Ahab reached his perch; hardly was the rope belayed to its
mooooo moo Mooo moooooo moo moooo; mooooo moo moo mooo moooooo mo moo

pin on deck, when he struck the key-note to an orchestra, that made the
moo mo mooo, mooo mo mooooo moo moo-mooo mo mo moooooooo, mooo mooo moo

air vibrate as with the combined discharges of rifles. The triumphant
moo moooooo mo mooo moo mooooooo mooooooooo mo mooooo. Moo mooooooooo

halloo of thirty buckskin lungs was heard, as--much nearer to the ship
mooooo mo mooooo mooooooo moooo moo moooo, mo--mooo mooooo mo moo mooo

than the place of the imaginary jet, less than a mile ahead--Moby Dick
mooo moo moooo mo moo moooooooo moo, mooo mooo m mooo moooo--Mooo Mooo

bodily burst into view! For not by any calm and indolent spoutings; not
mooooo moooo mooo mooo! Moo moo mo moo mooo moo mooooooo moooooooo; moo

by the peaceable gush of that mystic fountain in his head, did the White
mo moo moooooooo mooo mo mooo mooooo mooooooo mo moo mooo, moo moo Moooo

Whale now reveal his vicinity; but by the far more wondrous phenomenon
Moooo moo mooooo moo mooooooo; moo mo moo moo mooo mooooooo mooooooooo

of breaching. Rising with his utmost velocity from the furthest depths,
mo moooooooo. Mooooo mooo moo mooooo mooooooo mooo moo mooooooo mooooo,

the Sperm Whale thus booms his entire bulk into the pure element of
moo Moooo Moooo mooo moooo moo mooooo mooo mooo moo mooo moooooo mo

air, and piling up a mountain of dazzling foam, shows his place to the
moo, moo mooooo mo m mooooooo mo mooooooo mooo, moooo moo moooo mo moo

distance of seven miles and more. In those moments, the torn, enraged
mooooooo mo moooo moooo moo mooo. Mo moooo moooooo, moo mooo, moooooo

waves he shakes off, seem his mane; in some cases, this breaching is his
moooo mo mooooo moo, mooo moo mooo; mo mooo moooo, mooo moooooooo mo moo

act of defiance.
moo mo mooooooo.




"There she breaches! there she breaches!" was the cry, as in his
"Moooo moo mooooooo! moooo moo mooooooo!" moo moo moo, mo mo moo

immeasurable bravadoes the White Whale tossed himself salmon-like to
mooooooooooo moooooooo moo Moooo Moooo mooooo moooooo mooooo-mooo mo

Heaven. So suddenly seen in the blue plain of the sea, and relieved
Mooooo. Mo mooooooo mooo mo moo mooo moooo mo moo moo, moo mooooooo

against the still bluer margin of the sky, the spray that he raised, for
moooooo moo moooo moooo mooooo mo moo moo, moo moooo mooo mo mooooo, moo

the moment, intolerably glittered and glared like a glacier; and
moo mooooo, moooooooooo moooooooo moo mooooo mooo m moooooo; moo

stood there gradually fading and fading away from its first sparkling
moooo moooo moooooooo mooooo moo mooooo mooo mooo moo moooo moooooooo

intensity, to the dim mistiness of an advancing shower in a vale.
moooooooo, mo moo moo moooooooo mo mo moooooooo mooooo mo m mooo.




"Aye, breach your last to the sun, Moby Dick!" cried Ahab, "thy hour and
"Moo, mooooo mooo mooo mo moo moo, Mooo Mooo!" moooo Mooo, "moo mooo moo

thy harpoon are at hand!--Down! down all of ye, but one man at the fore.
moo moooooo moo mo mooo!--Mooo! mooo moo mo mo, moo moo moo mo moo mooo.

The boats!--stand by!"
Moo moooo!--moooo mo!"




Unmindful of the tedious rope-ladders of the shrouds, the men, like
Moooooooo mo moo moooooo mooo-moooooo mo moo moooooo, moo moo, mooo

shooting stars, slid to the deck, by the isolated backstays and
mooooooo moooo, mooo mo moo mooo, mo moo mooooooo moooooooo moo

halyards; while Ahab, less dartingly, but still rapidly was dropped from
mooooooo; moooo Mooo, mooo moooooooo, moo moooo moooooo moo moooooo mooo

his perch.
moo moooo.




"Lower away," he cried, so soon as he had reached his boat--a spare one,
"Moooo mooo," mo moooo, mo mooo mo mo moo moooooo moo mooo--m moooo moo,

rigged the afternoon previous. "Mr. Starbuck, the ship is thine--keep
mooooo moo moooooooo mooooooo. "Mo. Mooooooo, moo mooo mo moooo--mooo

away from the boats, but keep near them. Lower, all!"
mooo mooo moo moooo, moo mooo mooo mooo. Moooo, moo!"




As if to strike a quick terror into them, by this time being the first
Mo mo mo mooooo m moooo mooooo mooo mooo, mo mooo mooo moooo moo moooo

assailant himself, Moby Dick had turned, and was now coming for the
moooooooo moooooo, Mooo Mooo moo mooooo, moo moo moo mooooo moo moo

three crews. Ahab's boat was central; and cheering his men, he told them
moooo moooo. Mooo'm mooo moo moooooo; moo mooooooo moo moo, mo mooo mooo

he would take the whale head-and-head,--that is, pull straight up to his
mo moooo mooo moo moooo mooo-moo-mooo,--mooo mo, mooo mooooooo mo mo moo

forehead,--a not uncommon thing; for when within a certain limit, such
mooooooo,--m moo mooooooo moooo; moo mooo mooooo m moooooo moooo, mooo

a course excludes the coming onset from the whale's sidelong vision.
m mooooo mooooooo moo mooooo moooo mooo moo moooo'm mooooooo mooooo.

But ere that close limit was gained, and while yet all three boats were
Moo moo mooo moooo moooo moo mooooo, moo moooo moo moo moooo moooo mooo

plain as the ship's three masts to his eye; the White Whale churning
moooo mo moo mooo'm moooo moooo mo moo moo; moo Moooo Moooo mooooooo

himself into furious speed, almost in an instant as it were, rushing
moooooo mooo moooooo moooo, mooooo mo mo moooooo mo mo mooo, moooooo

among the boats with open jaws, and a lashing tail, offered appalling
moooo moo moooo mooo mooo mooo, moo m moooooo mooo, moooooo moooooooo

battle on every side; and heedless of the irons darted at him from every
mooooo mo moooo mooo; moo mooooooo mo moo moooo mooooo mo moo mooo moooo

boat, seemed only intent on annihilating each separate plank of which
mooo, mooooo mooo mooooo mo mooooooooooo mooo mooooooo moooo mo moooo

those boats were made. But skilfully manoeuvred, incessantly wheeling
moooo moooo mooo mooo. Moo moooooooo mooooooooo, moooooooooo mooooooo

like trained chargers in the field; the boats for a while eluded him;
mooo moooooo mooooooo mo moo moooo; moo moooo moo m moooo mooooo moo;

though, at times, but by a plank's breadth; while all the time, Ahab's
mooooo, mo moooo, moo mo m moooo'm moooooo; moooo moo moo mooo, Mooo'm

unearthly slogan tore every other cry but his to shreds.
moooooooo mooooo mooo moooo moooo moo moo moo mo mooooo.




But at last in his untraceable evolutions, the White Whale so crossed
Moo mo mooo mo moo moooooooooo mooooooooo, moo Moooo Moooo mo moooooo

and recrossed, and in a thousand ways entangled the slack of the three
moo moooooooo, moo mo m mooooooo mooo moooooooo moo moooo mo moo moooo

lines now fast to him, that they foreshortened, and, of themselves,
moooo moo mooo mo moo, mooo mooo moooooooooooo, moo, mo mooooooooo,

warped the devoted boats towards the planted irons in him; though now
mooooo moo moooooo moooo moooooo moo moooooo moooo mo moo; mooooo moo

for a moment the whale drew aside a little, as if to rally for a more
moo m mooooo moo moooo mooo moooo m mooooo, mo mo mo moooo moo m mooo

tremendous charge. Seizing that opportunity, Ahab first paid out more
mooooooooo mooooo. Moooooo mooo moooooooooo, Mooo moooo mooo moo mooo

line: and then was rapidly hauling and jerking in upon it again--hoping
mooo: moo mooo moo moooooo moooooo moo moooooo mo mooo mo moooo--mooooo

that way to disencumber it of some snarls--when lo!--a sight more savage
mooo moo mo moooooooooo mo mo mooo mooooo--mooo mo!--m moooo mooo mooooo

than the embattled teeth of sharks!
mooo moo moooooooo moooo mo mooooo!




Caught and twisted--corkscrewed in the mazes of the line, loose harpoons
Mooooo moo moooooo--moooooooooo mo moo moooo mo moo mooo, moooo mooooooo

and lances, with all their bristling barbs and points, came flashing
moo mooooo, mooo moo moooo moooooooo moooo moo mooooo, mooo mooooooo

and dripping up to the chocks in the bows of Ahab's boat. Only one
moo mooooooo mo mo moo mooooo mo moo mooo mo Mooo'm mooo. Mooo moo

thing could be done. Seizing the boat-knife, he critically reached
moooo moooo mo mooo. Moooooo moo mooo-moooo, mo mooooooooo moooooo

within--through--and then, without--the rays of steel; dragged in
mooooo--moooooo--moo mooo, moooooo--moo mooo mo moooo; moooooo mo

the line beyond, passed it, inboard, to the bowsman, and then, twice
moo mooo mooooo, mooooo mo, moooooo, mo moo moooooo, moo mooo, moooo

sundering the rope near the chocks--dropped the intercepted fagot of
moooooooo moo mooo mooo moo mooooo--moooooo moo moooooooooo moooo mo

steel into the sea; and was all fast again. That instant, the White
moooo mooo moo moo; moo moo moo mooo moooo. Mooo moooooo, moo Moooo

Whale made a sudden rush among the remaining tangles of the other lines;
Moooo mooo m mooooo mooo moooo moo moooooooo moooooo mo moo moooo moooo;

by so doing, irresistibly dragged the more involved boats of Stubb and
mo mo moooo, mooooooooooo moooooo moo mooo mooooooo moooo mo Moooo moo

Flask towards his flukes; dashed them together like two rolling husks on
Moooo moooooo moo mooooo; mooooo mooo mooooooo mooo moo moooooo moooo mo

a surf-beaten beach, and then, diving down into the sea, disappeared in
m mooo-mooooo moooo, moo mooo, mooooo mooo mooo moo moo, moooooooooo mo

a boiling maelstrom, in which, for a space, the odorous cedar chips of
m moooooo moooooooo, mo moooo, moo m moooo, moo moooooo moooo moooo mo

the wrecks danced round and round, like the grated nutmeg in a swiftly
moo mooooo mooooo moooo moo moooo, mooo moo mooooo mooooo mo m moooooo

stirred bowl of punch.
moooooo mooo mo moooo.




While the two crews were yet circling in the waters, reaching out after
Moooo moo moo moooo mooo moo mooooooo mo moo mooooo, mooooooo moo moooo

the revolving line-tubs, oars, and other floating furniture, while
moo moooooooo mooo-mooo, mooo, moo moooo mooooooo moooooooo, moooo

aslope little Flask bobbed up and down like an empty vial, twitching his
mooooo mooooo Moooo mooooo mo moo mooo mooo mo moooo mooo, moooooooo moo

legs upwards to escape the dreaded jaws of sharks; and Stubb was lustily
mooo moooooo mo mooooo moo moooooo mooo mo mooooo; moo Moooo moo moooooo

singing out for some one to ladle him up; and while the old man's
moooooo moo moo mooo moo mo moooo moo mo; moo moooo moo moo moo'm

line--now parting--admitted of his pulling into the creamy pool to
mooo--moo moooooo--mooooooo mo moo moooooo mooo moo mooooo mooo mo

rescue whom he could;--in that wild simultaneousness of a thousand
mooooo mooo mo moooo;--mo mooo mooo mooooooooooooooo mo m mooooooo

concreted perils,--Ahab's yet unstricken boat seemed drawn up towards
moooooooo mooooo,--Mooo'm moo mooooooooo mooo mooooo moooo mo moooooo

Heaven by invisible wires,--as, arrow-like, shooting perpendicularly
Mooooo mo moooooooo moooo,--mo, moooo-mooo, mooooooo moooooooooooooo

from the sea, the White Whale dashed his broad forehead against its
mooo moo moo, moo Moooo Moooo mooooo moo moooo mooooooo moooooo moo

bottom, and sent it, turning over and over, into the air; till it fell
mooooo, moo mooo mo, moooooo mooo moo mooo, mooo moo moo; mooo mo mooo

again--gunwale downwards--and Ahab and his men struggled out from under
moooo--moooooo moooooooo--moo Mooo moo moo moo moooooooo moo mooo moooo

it, like seals from a sea-side cave.
mo, mooo moooo mooo m moo-mooo mooo.




The first uprising momentum of the whale--modifying its direction as
Moo moooo mooooooo mooooooo mo moo moooo--moooooooo moo moooooooo mo

he struck the surface--involuntarily launched him along it, to a little
mo mooooo moo moooooo--moooooooooooo mooooooo moo moooo mo, mo m mooooo

distance from the centre of the destruction he had made; and with his
mooooooo mooo moo mooooo mo moo moooooooooo mo moo mooo; moo mooo moo

back to it, he now lay for a moment slowly feeling with his flukes from
mooo mo mo, mo moo moo moo m mooooo mooooo moooooo mooo moo mooooo mooo

side to side; and whenever a stray oar, bit of plank, the least chip
mooo mo mooo; moo mooooooo m moooo moo, moo mo moooo, moo moooo mooo

or crumb of the boats touched his skin, his tail swiftly drew back, and
mo moooo mo moo moooo moooooo moo mooo, moo mooo moooooo mooo mooo, moo

came sideways smiting the sea. But soon, as if satisfied that his work
mooo mooooooo moooooo moo moo. Moo mooo, mo mo moooooooo mooo moo mooo

for that time was done, he pushed his pleated forehead through the
moo mooo mooo moo mooo, mo mooooo moo moooooo mooooooo moooooo moo

ocean, and trailing after him the intertangled lines, continued his
moooo, moo mooooooo moooo moo moo mooooooooooo moooo, moooooooo moo

leeward way at a traveller's methodic pace.
moooooo moo mo m moooooooo'm mooooooo mooo.




As before, the attentive ship having descried the whole fight, again
Mo mooooo, moo moooooooo mooo mooooo mooooooo moo moooo moooo, moooo

came bearing down to the rescue, and dropping a boat, picked up the
mooo moooooo mooo mo moo mooooo, moo mooooooo m mooo, mooooo mo moo

floating mariners, tubs, oars, and whatever else could be caught at, and
mooooooo mooooooo, mooo, mooo, moo mooooooo mooo moooo mo mooooo mo, moo

safely landed them on her decks. Some sprained shoulders, wrists, and
mooooo mooooo mooo mo moo moooo. Mooo mooooooo moooooooo, mooooo, moo

ankles; livid contusions; wrenched harpoons and lances; inextricable
mooooo; moooo mooooooooo; mooooooo mooooooo moo mooooo; mooooooooooo

intricacies of rope; shattered oars and planks; all these were there;
moooooooooo mo mooo; moooooooo mooo moo mooooo; moo moooo mooo moooo;

but no fatal or even serious ill seemed to have befallen any one. As
moo mo moooo mo mooo moooooo moo mooooo mo mooo mooooooo moo moo. Mo

with Fedallah the day before, so Ahab was now found grimly clinging to
mooo Mooooooo moo moo mooooo, mo Mooo moo moo moooo mooooo mooooooo mo

his boat's broken half, which afforded a comparatively easy float; nor
moo mooo'm mooooo mooo, moooo mooooooo m moooooooooooo mooo moooo; moo

did it so exhaust him as the previous day's mishap.
moo mo mo moooooo moo mo moo mooooooo moo'm mooooo.




But when he was helped to the deck, all eyes were fastened upon him; as
Moo mooo mo moo mooooo mo moo mooo, moo mooo mooo mooooooo mooo moo; mo

instead of standing by himself he still half-hung upon the shoulder of
moooooo mo mooooooo mo moooooo mo moooo mooo-mooo mooo moo mooooooo mo

Starbuck, who had thus far been the foremost to assist him. His ivory
Mooooooo, moo moo mooo moo mooo moo mooooooo mo mooooo moo. Moo moooo

leg had been snapped off, leaving but one short sharp splinter.
moo moo mooo moooooo moo, moooooo moo moo moooo moooo mooooooo.




"Aye, aye, Starbuck, 'tis sweet to lean sometimes, be the leaner who he
"Moo, moo, Mooooooo, 'moo moooo mo mooo moooooooo, mo moo mooooo moo mo

will; and would old Ahab had leaned oftener than he has."
mooo; moo moooo moo Mooo moo mooooo moooooo mooo mo moo."




"The ferrule has not stood, sir," said the carpenter, now coming up; "I
"Moo moooooo moo moo moooo, moo," mooo moo moooooooo, moo mooooo mo; "M

put good work into that leg."
moo mooo mooo mooo mooo moo."




"But no bones broken, sir, I hope," said Stubb with true concern.
"Moo mo moooo mooooo, moo, M mooo," mooo Moooo mooo mooo moooooo.




"Aye! and all splintered to pieces, Stubb!--d'ye see it.--But even with
"Moo! moo moo mooooooooo mo mooooo, Moooo!--m'mo moo mo.--Moo mooo mooo

a broken bone, old Ahab is untouched; and I account no living bone of
m mooooo mooo, moo Mooo mo moooooooo; moo M moooooo mo mooooo mooo mo

mine one jot more me, than this dead one that's lost. Nor white whale,
mooo moo moo mooo mo, mooo mooo mooo moo mooo'm mooo. Moo moooo moooo,

nor man, nor fiend, can so much as graze old Ahab in his own proper and
moo moo, moo moooo, moo mo mooo mo moooo moo Mooo mo moo moo mooooo moo

inaccessible being. Can any lead touch yonder floor, any mast scrape
mooooooooooo moooo. Moo moo mooo moooo mooooo moooo, moo mooo mooooo

yonder roof?--Aloft there! which way?"
mooooo mooo?--Moooo moooo! moooo moo?"




"Dead to leeward, sir."
"Mooo mo moooooo, moo."




"Up helm, then; pile on the sail again, ship keepers! down the rest of
"Mo mooo, mooo; mooo mo moo mooo moooo, mooo moooooo! mooo moo mooo mo

the spare boats and rig them--Mr. Starbuck away, and muster the boat's
moo moooo moooo moo moo mooo--Mo. Mooooooo mooo, moo mooooo moo mooo'm

crews."
moooo."




"Let me first help thee towards the bulwarks, sir."
"Moo mo moooo mooo mooo moooooo moo mooooooo, moo."




"Oh, oh, oh! how this splinter gores me now! Accursed fate! that the
"Mo, mo, mo! moo mooo mooooooo moooo mo moo! Mooooooo mooo! mooo moo

unconquerable captain in the soul should have such a craven mate!"
moooooooooooo moooooo mo moo mooo mooooo mooo mooo m mooooo mooo!"




"Sir?"
"Moo?"




"My body, man, not thee. Give me something for a cane--there, that
"Mo mooo, moo, moo mooo. Mooo mo moooooooo moo m mooo--moooo, mooo

shivered lance will do. Muster the men. Surely I have not seen him yet.
mooooooo moooo mooo mo. Mooooo moo moo. Mooooo M mooo moo mooo moo moo.

By heaven it cannot be!--missing?--quick! call them all."
Mo mooooo mo mooooo mo!--moooooo?--moooo! mooo mooo moo."




The old man's hinted thought was true. Upon mustering the company, the
Moo moo moo'm mooooo moooooo moo mooo. Mooo moooooooo moo moooooo, moo

Parsee was not there.
Mooooo moo moo moooo.




"The Parsee!" cried Stubb--"he must have been caught in--"
"Moo Mooooo!" moooo Moooo--"mo mooo mooo mooo mooooo mo--"




"The black vomit wrench thee!--run all of ye above, alow, cabin,
"Moo moooo moooo mooooo mooo!--moo moo mo mo moooo, mooo, moooo,

forecastle--find him--not gone--not gone!"
mooooooooo--mooo moo--moo mooo--moo mooo!"




But quickly they returned to him with the tidings that the Parsee was
Moo moooooo mooo mooooooo mo moo mooo moo moooooo mooo moo Mooooo moo

nowhere to be found.
moooooo mo mo moooo.




"Aye, sir," said Stubb--"caught among the tangles of your line--I
"Moo, moo," mooo Moooo--"mooooo moooo moo moooooo mo mooo mooo--M

thought I saw him dragging under."
moooooo M moo moo mooooooo moooo."




"MY line! MY line? Gone?--gone? What means that little word?--What
"MO mooo! MO mooo? Mooo?--mooo? Mooo moooo mooo mooooo mooo?--Mooo

death-knell rings in it, that old Ahab shakes as if he were the belfry.
moooo-moooo moooo mo mo, mooo moo Mooo mooooo mo mo mo mooo moo mooooo.

The harpoon, too!--toss over the litter there,--d'ye see it?--the forged
Moo moooooo, moo!--mooo mooo moo mooooo moooo,--m'mo moo mo?--moo mooooo

iron, men, the white whale's--no, no, no,--blistered fool! this hand did
mooo, moo, moo moooo moooo'm--mo, mo, mo,--moooooooo mooo! mooo mooo moo

dart it!--'tis in the fish!--Aloft there! Keep him nailed--Quick!--all
mooo mo!--'moo mo moo mooo!--Moooo moooo! Mooo moo mooooo--Moooo!--moo

hands to the rigging of the boats--collect the oars--harpooneers!
moooo mo moo moooooo mo moo moooo--moooooo moo mooo--moooooooooo!

the irons, the irons!--hoist the royals higher--a pull on all the
moo moooo, moo moooo!--moooo moo mooooo mooooo--m mooo mo moo moo

sheets!--helm there! steady, steady for your life! I'll ten times girdle
mooooo!--mooo moooo! mooooo, mooooo moo mooo mooo! M'mo moo moooo mooooo

the unmeasured globe; yea and dive straight through it, but I'll slay
moo mooooooooo moooo; moo moo mooo mooooooo moooooo mo, moo M'mo mooo

him yet!
moo moo!




"Great God! but for one single instant show thyself," cried Starbuck;
"Moooo Moo! moo moo moo mooooo moooooo mooo moooooo," moooo Mooooooo;

"never, never wilt thou capture him, old man--In Jesus' name no more of
"moooo, moooo mooo mooo moooooo moo, moo moo--Mo Moooo' mooo mo mooo mo

this, that's worse than devil's madness. Two days chased; twice stove
mooo, mooo'm moooo mooo moooo'm moooooo. Moo mooo mooooo; moooo moooo

to splinters; thy very leg once more snatched from under thee; thy evil
mo moooooooo; moo mooo moo mooo mooo mooooooo mooo moooo mooo; moo mooo

shadow gone--all good angels mobbing thee with warnings:--
mooooo mooo--moo mooo mooooo moooooo mooo mooo mooooooo:--




"What more wouldst thou have?--Shall we keep chasing this murderous fish
"Mooo mooo moooooo mooo mooo?--Moooo mo mooo moooooo mooo moooooooo mooo

till he swamps the last man? Shall we be dragged by him to the bottom
mooo mo mooooo moo mooo moo? Moooo mo mo moooooo mo moo mo moo mooooo

of the sea? Shall we be towed by him to the infernal world? Oh,
mo moo moo? Moooo mo mo moooo mo moo mo moo mooooooo moooo? Mo,

oh,--Impiety and blasphemy to hunt him more!"
mo,--Moooooo moo moooooooo mo mooo moo mooo!"




"Starbuck, of late I've felt strangely moved to thee; ever since that
"Mooooooo, mo mooo M'mo mooo moooooooo moooo mo mooo; mooo moooo mooo

hour we both saw--thou know'st what, in one another's eyes. But in this
mooo mo mooo moo--mooo mooo'mo mooo, mo moo moooooo'm mooo. Moo mo mooo

matter of the whale, be the front of thy face to me as the palm of this
mooooo mo moo moooo, mo moo moooo mo moo mooo mo mo mo moo mooo mo mooo

hand--a lipless, unfeatured blank. Ahab is for ever Ahab, man. This
mooo--m moooooo, mooooooooo moooo. Mooo mo moo mooo Mooo, moo. Mooo

whole act's immutably decreed. 'Twas rehearsed by thee and me a billion
moooo moo'm moooooooo moooooo. 'Mooo moooooooo mo mooo moo mo m moooooo

years before this ocean rolled. Fool! I am the Fates' lieutenant; I act
moooo mooooo mooo moooo mooooo. Mooo! M mo moo Moooo' mooooooooo; M moo

under orders. Look thou, underling! that thou obeyest mine.--Stand round
moooo mooooo. Mooo mooo, moooooooo! mooo mooo moooooo mooo.--Moooo moooo

me, men. Ye see an old man cut down to the stump; leaning on a shivered
mo, moo. Mo moo mo moo moo moo mooo mo moo moooo; moooooo mo m mooooooo

lance; propped up on a lonely foot. 'Tis Ahab--his body's part; but
moooo; moooooo mo mo m mooooo mooo. 'Moo Mooo--moo mooo'm mooo; moo

Ahab's soul's a centipede, that moves upon a hundred legs. I feel
Mooo'm mooo'm m moooooooo, mooo moooo mooo m moooooo mooo. M mooo

strained, half stranded, as ropes that tow dismasted frigates in a gale;
mooooooo, mooo mooooooo, mo moooo mooo moo moooooooo mooooooo mo m mooo;

and I may look so. But ere I break, ye'll hear me crack; and till ye hear
moo M moo mooo mo. Moo moo M moooo, mo'mo mooo mo moooo; moo mooo mo mooo

THAT, know that Ahab's hawser tows his purpose yet. Believe ye, men, in
MOOO, mooo mooo Mooo'm mooooo mooo moo moooooo moo. Moooooo mo, moo, mo

the things called omens? Then laugh aloud, and cry encore! For ere they
moo mooooo mooooo moooo? Mooo moooo moooo, moo moo mooooo! Moo moo mooo

drown, drowning things will twice rise to the surface; then rise again,
moooo, mooooooo mooooo mooo moooo mooo mo moo moooooo; mooo mooo moooo,

to sink for evermore. So with Moby Dick--two days he's floated--tomorrow
mo mooo moo mooooooo. Mo mooo Mooo Mooo--moo mooo mo'm moooooo--mooooooo

will be the third. Aye, men, he'll rise once more,--but only to spout
mooo mo moo moooo. Moo, moo, mo'mo mooo mooo mooo,--moo mooo mo moooo

his last! D'ye feel brave men, brave?"
moo mooo! M'mo mooo moooo moo, moooo?"




"As fearless fire," cried Stubb.
"Mo mooooooo mooo," moooo Moooo.




"And as mechanical," muttered Ahab. Then as the men went forward, he
"Moo mo mooooooooo," mooooooo Mooo. Mooo mo moo moo mooo moooooo, mo

muttered on: "The things called omens! And yesterday I talked the same
mooooooo mo: "Moo mooooo mooooo moooo! Moo moooooooo M mooooo moo mooo

to Starbuck there, concerning my broken boat. Oh! how valiantly I seek
mo Mooooooo moooo, mooooooooo mo mooooo mooo. Mo! moo moooooooo M mooo

to drive out of others' hearts what's clinched so fast in mine!--The
mo moooo moo mo mooooo' mooooo mooo'm mooooooo mo mooo mo mooo!--Moo

Parsee--the Parsee!--gone, gone? and he was to go before:--but still was
Mooooo--moo Mooooo!--mooo, mooo? moo mo moo mo mo mooooo:--moo moooo moo

to be seen again ere I could perish--How's that?--There's a riddle now
mo mo mooo moooo moo M moooo mooooo--Moo'm mooo?--Moooo'm m mooooo moo

might baffle all the lawyers backed by the ghosts of the whole line
moooo mooooo moo moo moooooo mooooo mo moo mooooo mo moo moooo mooo

of judges:--like a hawk's beak it pecks my brain. I'LL, I'LL solve it,
mo mooooo:--mooo m mooo'm mooo mo moooo mo moooo. M'MO, M'MO moooo mo,

though!"
mooooo!"




When dusk descended, the whale was still in sight to leeward.
Mooo mooo moooooooo, moo moooo moo moooo mo moooo mo moooooo.




So once more the sail was shortened, and everything passed nearly as
Mo mooo mooo moo mooo moo moooooooo, moo mooooooooo mooooo mooooo mo

on the previous night; only, the sound of hammers, and the hum of the
mo moo mooooooo moooo; mooo, moo moooo mo moooooo, moo moo moo mo moo

grindstone was heard till nearly daylight, as the men toiled by lanterns
mooooooooo moo moooo mooo mooooo mooooooo, mo moo moo mooooo mo mooooooo

in the complete and careful rigging of the spare boats and sharpening
mo moo mooooooo moo moooooo moooooo mo moo moooo moooo moo mooooooooo

their fresh weapons for the morrow. Meantime, of the broken keel of
moooo moooo moooooo moo moo mooooo. Mooooooo, mo moo mooooo mooo mo

Ahab's wrecked craft the carpenter made him another leg; while still as
Mooo'm moooooo moooo moo moooooooo mooo moo moooooo moo; moooo moooo mo

on the night before, slouched Ahab stood fixed within his scuttle; his
mo moo moooo mooooo, mooooooo Mooo moooo moooo mooooo moo moooooo; moo

hid, heliotrope glance anticipatingly gone backward on its dial; sat due
moo, mooooooooo mooooo mooooooooooooo mooo mooooooo mo moo mooo; moo moo

eastward for the earliest sun.
mooooooo moo moo mooooooo moo.










CHAPTER 135. The Chase.--Third Day.
MOOOOOO moo. Moo Moooo.--Moooo Moo.







The morning of the third day dawned fair and fresh, and once more the
Moo moooooo mo moo moooo moo mooooo mooo moo moooo, moo mooo mooo moo

solitary night-man at the fore-mast-head was relieved by crowds of the
mooooooo moooo-moo mo moo mooo-mooo-mooo moo mooooooo mo mooooo mo moo

daylight look-outs, who dotted every mast and almost every spar.
mooooooo mooo-mooo, moo mooooo moooo mooo moo mooooo moooo mooo.




"D'ye see him?" cried Ahab; but the whale was not yet in sight.
"M'mo moo moo?" moooo Mooo; moo moo moooo moo moo moo mo moooo.




"In his infallible wake, though; but follow that wake, that's all. Helm
"Mo moo mooooooooo mooo, mooooo; moo mooooo mooo mooo, mooo'm moo. Mooo

there; steady, as thou goest, and hast been going. What a lovely day
moooo; mooooo, mo mooo moooo, moo mooo mooo moooo. Mooo m mooooo moo

again! were it a new-made world, and made for a summer-house to the
moooo! mooo mo m moo-mooo moooo, moo mooo moo m mooooo-moooo mo moo

angels, and this morning the first of its throwing open to them, a
mooooo, moo mooo moooooo moo moooo mo moo mooooooo mooo mo mooo, m

fairer day could not dawn upon that world. Here's food for thought, had
mooooo moo moooo moo mooo mooo mooo moooo. Mooo'm mooo moo moooooo, moo

Ahab time to think; but Ahab never thinks; he only feels, feels, feels;
Mooo mooo mo moooo; moo Mooo moooo mooooo; mo mooo moooo, moooo, moooo;

THAT'S tingling enough for mortal man! to think's audacity. God only has
MOOO'M mooooooo mooooo moo mooooo moo! mo moooo'm mooooooo. Moo mooo moo

that right and privilege. Thinking is, or ought to be, a coolness and a
mooo moooo moo moooooooo. Mooooooo mo, mo moooo mo mo, m mooooooo moo m

calmness; and our poor hearts throb, and our poor brains beat too much
mooooooo; moo moo mooo mooooo moooo, moo moo mooo mooooo mooo moo mooo

for that. And yet, I've sometimes thought my brain was very calm--frozen
moo mooo. Moo moo, M'mo moooooooo moooooo mo moooo moo mooo mooo--mooooo

calm, this old skull cracks so, like a glass in which the contents
mooo, mooo moo moooo mooooo mo, mooo m moooo mo moooo moo mooooooo

turned to ice, and shiver it. And still this hair is growing now; this
mooooo mo moo, moo mooooo mo. Moo moooo mooo mooo mo moooooo moo; mooo

moment growing, and heat must breed it; but no, it's like that sort
mooooo moooooo, moo mooo mooo moooo mo; moo mo, mo'm mooo mooo mooo

of common grass that will grow anywhere, between the earthy clefts of
mo mooooo moooo mooo mooo mooo mooooooo, moooooo moo mooooo mooooo mo

Greenland ice or in Vesuvius lava. How the wild winds blow it; they whip
Moooooooo moo mo mo Mooooooo mooo. Moo moo mooo moooo mooo mo; mooo mooo

it about me as the torn shreds of split sails lash the tossed ship they
mo moooo mo mo moo mooo mooooo mo moooo moooo mooo moo mooooo mooo mooo

cling to. A vile wind that has no doubt blown ere this through prison
moooo mo. M mooo mooo mooo moo mo moooo moooo moo mooo moooooo mooooo

corridors and cells, and wards of hospitals, and ventilated them, and
moooooooo moo moooo, moo moooo mo moooooooo, moo mooooooooo mooo, moo

now comes blowing hither as innocent as fleeces. Out upon it!--it's
moo moooo moooooo mooooo mo mooooooo mo moooooo. Moo mooo mo!--mo'm

tainted. Were I the wind, I'd blow no more on such a wicked, miserable
moooooo. Mooo M moo mooo, M'm mooo mo mooo mo mooo m mooooo, moooooooo

world. I'd crawl somewhere to a cave, and slink there. And yet, 'tis a
moooo. M'm moooo moooooooo mo m mooo, moo moooo moooo. Moo moo, 'moo m

noble and heroic thing, the wind! who ever conquered it? In every fight
moooo moo mooooo moooo, moo mooo! moo mooo moooooooo mo? Mo moooo moooo

it has the last and bitterest blow. Run tilting at it, and you but run
mo moo moo mooo moo moooooooo mooo. Moo moooooo mo mo, moo moo moo moo

through it. Ha! a coward wind that strikes stark naked men, but will not
moooooo mo. Mo! m mooooo mooo mooo moooooo moooo moooo moo, moo mooo moo

stand to receive a single blow. Even Ahab is a braver thing--a nobler
moooo mo moooooo m mooooo mooo. Mooo Mooo mo m mooooo moooo--m mooooo

thing than THAT. Would now the wind but had a body; but all the things
moooo mooo MOOO. Moooo moo moo mooo moo moo m mooo; moo moo moo mooooo

that most exasperate and outrage mortal man, all these things are
mooo mooo mooooooooo moo moooooo mooooo moo, moo moooo mooooo moo

bodiless, but only bodiless as objects, not as agents. There's a most
mooooooo, moo mooo mooooooo mo moooooo, moo mo mooooo. Moooo'm m mooo

special, a most cunning, oh, a most malicious difference! And yet, I
moooooo, m mooo moooooo, mo, m mooo moooooooo mooooooooo! Moo moo, M

say again, and swear it now, that there's something all glorious and
moo moooo, moo moooo mo moo, mooo moooo'm moooooooo moo mooooooo moo

gracious in the wind. These warm Trade Winds, at least, that in the
mooooooo mo moo mooo. Moooo mooo Moooo Moooo, mo moooo, mooo mo moo

clear heavens blow straight on, in strong and steadfast, vigorous
moooo moooooo mooo mooooooo mo, mo mooooo moo moooooooo, mooooooo

mildness; and veer not from their mark, however the baser currents of
mooooooo; moo mooo moo mooo moooo mooo, moooooo moo moooo mooooooo mo

the sea may turn and tack, and mightiest Mississippies of the land swift
moo moo moo mooo moo mooo, moo moooooooo Moooooooooooo mo moo mooo moooo

and swerve about, uncertain where to go at last. And by the eternal
moo mooooo moooo, moooooooo moooo mo mo mo mooo. Moo mo moo moooooo

Poles! these same Trades that so directly blow my good ship on; these
Moooo! moooo mooo Mooooo mooo mo mooooooo mooo mo mooo mooo mo; moooo

Trades, or something like them--something so unchangeable, and full as
Mooooo, mo moooooooo mooo mooo--moooooooo mo mooooooooooo, moo mooo mo

strong, blow my keeled soul along! To it! Aloft there! What d'ye see?"
mooooo, mooo mo mooooo mooo moooo! Mo mo! Moooo moooo! Mooo m'mo moo?"




"Nothing, sir."
"Moooooo, moo."




"Nothing! and noon at hand! The doubloon goes a-begging! See the sun!
"Moooooo! moo mooo mo mooo! Moo mooooooo mooo m-moooooo! Moo moo moo!

Aye, aye, it must be so. I've oversailed him. How, got the start? Aye,
Moo, moo, mo mooo mo mo. M'mo mooooooooo moo. Moo, moo moo moooo? Moo,

he's chasing ME now; not I, HIM--that's bad; I might have known it, too.
mo'm moooooo MO moo; moo M, MOO--mooo'm moo; M moooo mooo moooo mo, moo.

Fool! the lines--the harpoons he's towing. Aye, aye, I have run him by
Mooo! moo moooo--moo mooooooo mo'm mooooo. Moo, moo, M mooo moo moo mo

last night. About! about! Come down, all of ye, but the regular look
mooo moooo. Moooo! moooo! Mooo mooo, moo mo mo, moo moo moooooo mooo

outs! Man the braces!"
mooo! Moo moo mooooo!"




Steering as she had done, the wind had been somewhat on the Pequod's
Mooooooo mo moo moo mooo, moo mooo moo mooo mooooooo mo moo Mooooo'm

quarter, so that now being pointed in the reverse direction, the braced
moooooo, mo mooo moo moooo moooooo mo moo moooooo moooooooo, moo mooooo

ship sailed hard upon the breeze as she rechurned the cream in her own
mooo mooooo mooo mooo moo mooooo mo moo moooooooo moo moooo mo moo moo

white wake.
moooo mooo.




"Against the wind he now steers for the open jaw," murmured Starbuck to
"Moooooo moo mooo mo moo mooooo moo moo mooo moo," mooooooo Mooooooo mo

himself, as he coiled the new-hauled main-brace upon the rail. "God keep
moooooo, mo mo mooooo moo moo-mooooo mooo-moooo mooo moo mooo. "Moo mooo

us, but already my bones feel damp within me, and from the inside wet my
mo, moo moooooo mo moooo mooo mooo mooooo mo, moo mooo moo mooooo moo mo

flesh. I misdoubt me that I disobey my God in obeying him!"
moooo. M mooooooo mo mooo M moooooo mo Moo mo moooooo moo!"




"Stand by to sway me up!" cried Ahab, advancing to the hempen basket.
"Moooo mo mo mooo mo mo!" moooo Mooo, moooooooo mo moo mooooo mooooo.

"We should meet him soon."
"Mo mooooo mooo moo mooo."




"Aye, aye, sir," and straightway Starbuck did Ahab's bidding, and once
"Moo, moo, moo," moo moooooooooo Mooooooo moo Mooo'm moooooo, moo mooo

more Ahab swung on high.
mooo Mooo moooo mo mooo.




A whole hour now passed; gold-beaten out to ages. Time itself now held
M moooo mooo moo mooooo; mooo-mooooo moo mo mooo. Mooo mooooo moo mooo

long breaths with keen suspense. But at last, some three points off the
mooo moooooo mooo mooo mooooooo. Moo mo mooo, mooo moooo mooooo moo moo

weather bow, Ahab descried the spout again, and instantly from the three
moooooo moo, Mooo mooooooo moo moooo moooo, moo moooooooo mooo moo moooo

mast-heads three shrieks went up as if the tongues of fire had voiced
mooo-moooo moooo moooooo mooo mo mo mo moo moooooo mo mooo moo mooooo

it.
mo.




"Forehead to forehead I meet thee, this third time, Moby Dick! On deck
"Mooooooo mo mooooooo M mooo mooo, mooo moooo mooo, Mooo Mooo! Mo mooo

there!--brace sharper up; crowd her into the wind's eye. He's too
moooo!--moooo moooooo mo; moooo moo mooo moo mooo'm moo. Mo'm moo

far off to lower yet, Mr. Starbuck. The sails shake! Stand over that
moo moo mo moooo moo, Mo. Mooooooo. Moo moooo moooo! Moooo mooo mooo

helmsman with a top-maul! So, so; he travels fast, and I must down. But
mooooooo mooo m moo-mooo! Mo, mo; mo moooooo mooo, moo M mooo mooo. Moo

let me have one more good round look aloft here at the sea; there's
moo mo mooo moo mooo mooo moooo mooo moooo mooo mo moo moo; moooo'm

time for that. An old, old sight, and yet somehow so young; aye, and
mooo moo mooo. Mo moo, moo moooo, moo moo moooooo mo moooo; moo, moo

not changed a wink since I first saw it, a boy, from the sand-hills of
moo moooooo m mooo moooo M moooo moo mo, m moo, mooo moo mooo-moooo mo

Nantucket! The same!--the same!--the same to Noah as to me. There's
Moooooooo! Moo mooo!--moo mooo!--moo mooo mo Mooo mo mo mo. Moooo'm

a soft shower to leeward. Such lovely leewardings! They must lead
m mooo mooooo mo moooooo. Mooo mooooo moooooooooo! Mooo mooo mooo

somewhere--to something else than common land, more palmy than the
moooooooo--mo moooooooo mooo mooo mooooo mooo, mooo moooo mooo moo

palms. Leeward! the white whale goes that way; look to windward,
moooo. Moooooo! moo moooo moooo mooo mooo moo; mooo mo mooooooo,

then; the better if the bitterer quarter. But good bye, good bye, old
mooo; moo mooooo mo moo mooooooo moooooo. Moo mooo moo, mooo moo, moo

mast-head! What's this?--green? aye, tiny mosses in these warped cracks.
mooo-mooo! Mooo'm mooo?--moooo? moo, mooo mooooo mo moooo mooooo mooooo.

No such green weather stains on Ahab's head! There's the difference now
Mo mooo moooo moooooo mooooo mo Mooo'm mooo! Moooo'm moo mooooooooo moo

between man's old age and matter's. But aye, old mast, we both grow old
moooooo moo'm moo moo moo mooooo'm. Moo moo, moo mooo, mo mooo mooo moo

together; sound in our hulls, though, are we not, my ship? Aye, minus
mooooooo; moooo mo moo moooo, mooooo, moo mo moo, mo mooo? Moo, moooo

a leg, that's all. By heaven this dead wood has the better of my live
m moo, mooo'm moo. Mo mooooo mooo mooo mooo moo moo mooooo mo mo mooo

flesh every way. I can't compare with it; and I've known some ships made
moooo moooo moo. M moo'm moooooo mooo mo; moo M'mo moooo mooo moooo mooo

of dead trees outlast the lives of men made of the most vital stuff of
mo mooo moooo moooooo moo moooo mo moo mooo mo moo mooo moooo moooo mo

vital fathers. What's that he said? he should still go before me, my
moooo moooooo. Mooo'm mooo mo mooo? mo mooooo moooo mo mooooo mo, mo

pilot; and yet to be seen again? But where? Will I have eyes at the
moooo; moo moo mo mo mooo moooo? Moo moooo? Mooo M mooo mooo mo moo

bottom of the sea, supposing I descend those endless stairs? and all
mooooo mo moo moo, moooooooo M moooooo moooo moooooo mooooo? moo moo

night I've been sailing from him, wherever he did sink to. Aye, aye,
moooo M'mo mooo moooooo mooo moo, mooooooo mo moo mooo mo. Moo, moo,

like many more thou told'st direful truth as touching thyself, O Parsee;
mooo mooo mooo mooo mooo'mo moooooo moooo mo mooooooo moooooo, M Mooooo;

but, Ahab, there thy shot fell short. Good-bye, mast-head--keep a good
moo, Mooo, moooo moo mooo mooo moooo. Mooo-moo, mooo-mooo--mooo m mooo

eye upon the whale, the while I'm gone. We'll talk to-morrow, nay,
moo mooo moo moooo, moo moooo M'm mooo. Mo'mo mooo mo-mooooo, moo,

to-night, when the white whale lies down there, tied by head and tail."
mo-moooo, mooo moo moooo moooo mooo mooo moooo, mooo mo mooo moo mooo."




He gave the word; and still gazing round him, was steadily lowered
Mo mooo moo mooo; moo moooo mooooo moooo moo, moo mooooooo moooooo

through the cloven blue air to the deck.
moooooo moo mooooo mooo moo mo moo mooo.




In due time the boats were lowered; but as standing in his shallop's
Mo moo mooo moo moooo mooo moooooo; moo mo mooooooo mo moo moooooo'm

stern, Ahab just hovered upon the point of the descent, he waved to the
moooo, Mooo mooo moooooo mooo moo moooo mo moo moooooo, mo moooo mo moo

mate,--who held one of the tackle-ropes on deck--and bade him pause.
mooo,--moo mooo moo mo moo mooooo-moooo mo mooo--moo mooo moo moooo.




"Starbuck!"
"Mooooooo!"




"Sir?"
"Moo?"




"For the third time my soul's ship starts upon this voyage, Starbuck."
"Moo moo moooo mooo mo mooo'm mooo mooooo mooo mooo mooooo, Mooooooo."




"Aye, sir, thou wilt have it so."
"Moo, moo, mooo mooo mooo mo mo."




"Some ships sail from their ports, and ever afterwards are missing,
"Mooo moooo mooo mooo moooo moooo, moo mooo mooooooooo moo moooooo,

Starbuck!"
Mooooooo!"




"Truth, sir: saddest truth."
"Moooo, moo: moooooo moooo."




"Some men die at ebb tide; some at low water; some at the full of
"Mooo moo moo mo moo mooo; mooo mo moo moooo; mooo mo moo mooo mo

the flood;--and I feel now like a billow that's all one crested comb,
moo moooo;--moo M mooo moo mooo m mooooo mooo'm moo moo moooooo mooo,

Starbuck. I am old;--shake hands with me, man."
Mooooooo. M mo moo;--moooo moooo mooo mo, moo."




Their hands met; their eyes fastened; Starbuck's tears the glue.
Moooo moooo moo; moooo mooo mooooooo; Mooooooo'm moooo moo mooo.




"Oh, my captain, my captain!--noble heart--go not--go not!--see, it's a
"Mo, mo moooooo, mo moooooo!--moooo moooo--mo moo--mo moo!--moo, mo'm m

brave man that weeps; how great the agony of the persuasion then!"
moooo moo mooo moooo; moo moooo moo moooo mo moo mooooooooo mooo!"




"Lower away!"--cried Ahab, tossing the mate's arm from him. "Stand by
"Moooo mooo!"--moooo Mooo, moooooo moo mooo'm moo mooo moo. "Moooo mo

the crew!"
moo mooo!"




In an instant the boat was pulling round close under the stern.
Mo mo moooooo moo mooo moo moooooo moooo moooo moooo moo moooo.




"The sharks! the sharks!" cried a voice from the low cabin-window there;
"Moo mooooo! moo mooooo!" moooo m moooo mooo moo moo moooo-mooooo moooo;

"O master, my master, come back!"
"M mooooo, mo mooooo, mooo mooo!"




But Ahab heard nothing; for his own voice was high-lifted then; and the
Moo Mooo moooo moooooo; moo moo moo moooo moo mooo-mooooo mooo; moo moo

boat leaped on.
mooo mooooo mo.




Yet the voice spake true; for scarce had he pushed from the ship, when
Moo moo moooo moooo mooo; moo mooooo moo mo mooooo mooo moo mooo, mooo

numbers of sharks, seemingly rising from out the dark waters beneath
moooooo mo mooooo, moooooooo mooooo mooo moo moo mooo mooooo moooooo

the hull, maliciously snapped at the blades of the oars, every time they
moo mooo, moooooooooo moooooo mo moo mooooo mo moo mooo, moooo mooo mooo

dipped in the water; and in this way accompanied the boat with their
mooooo mo moo moooo; moo mo mooo moo moooooooooo moo mooo mooo moooo

bites. It is a thing not uncommonly happening to the whale-boats in
moooo. Mo mo m moooo moo mooooooooo moooooooo mo moo moooo-moooo mo

those swarming seas; the sharks at times apparently following them in
moooo mooooooo mooo; moo mooooo mo moooo mooooooooo moooooooo mooo mo

the same prescient way that vultures hover over the banners of marching
moo mooo moooooooo moo mooo mooooooo moooo mooo moo moooooo mo mooooooo

regiments in the east. But these were the first sharks that had been
moooooooo mo moo mooo. Moo moooo mooo moo moooo mooooo mooo moo mooo

observed by the Pequod since the White Whale had been first descried;
mooooooo mo moo Mooooo moooo moo Moooo Moooo moo mooo moooo mooooooo;

and whether it was that Ahab's crew were all such tiger-yellow
moo moooooo mo moo mooo Mooo'm mooo mooo moo mooo moooo-mooooo

barbarians, and therefore their flesh more musky to the senses of the
mooooooooo, moo moooooooo moooo moooo mooo moooo mo moo mooooo mo moo

sharks--a matter sometimes well known to affect them,--however it was,
mooooo--m mooooo moooooooo mooo moooo mo mooooo mooo,--moooooo mo moo,

they seemed to follow that one boat without molesting the others.
mooo mooooo mo mooooo mooo moo mooo moooooo moooooooo moo mooooo.




"Heart of wrought steel!" murmured Starbuck gazing over the side, and
"Moooo mo moooooo moooo!" mooooooo Mooooooo mooooo mooo moo mooo, moo

following with his eyes the receding boat--"canst thou yet ring boldly
moooooooo mooo moo mooo moo mooooooo mooo--"moooo mooo moo mooo mooooo

to that sight?--lowering thy keel among ravening sharks, and followed by
mo mooo moooo?--mooooooo moo mooo moooo mooooooo mooooo, moo mooooooo mo

them, open-mouthed to the chase; and this the critical third day?--For
mooo, mooo-moooooo mo moo moooo; moo mooo moo mooooooo moooo moo?--Moo

when three days flow together in one continuous intense pursuit; be sure
mooo moooo mooo mooo mooooooo mo moo mooooooooo moooooo moooooo; mo mooo

the first is the morning, the second the noon, and the third the evening
moo moooo mo moo moooooo, moo mooooo moo mooo, moo moo moooo moo moooooo

and the end of that thing--be that end what it may. Oh! my God! what
moo moo moo mo mooo moooo--mo mooo moo mooo mo moo. Mo! mo Moo! mooo

is this that shoots through me, and leaves me so deadly calm, yet
mo mooo mooo mooooo moooooo mo, moo mooooo mo mo mooooo mooo, moo

expectant,--fixed at the top of a shudder! Future things swim before me,
moooooooo,--moooo mo moo moo mo m moooooo! Mooooo mooooo mooo mooooo mo,

as in empty outlines and skeletons; all the past is somehow grown dim.
mo mo moooo mooooooo moo moooooooo; moo moo mooo mo moooooo moooo moo.

Mary, girl! thou fadest in pale glories behind me; boy! I seem to
Mooo, mooo! mooo mooooo mo mooo moooooo mooooo mo; moo! M mooo mo

see but thy eyes grown wondrous blue. Strangest problems of life seem
moo moo moo mooo moooo mooooooo mooo. Moooooooo mooooooo mo mooo mooo

clearing; but clouds sweep between--Is my journey's end coming? My legs
mooooooo; moo mooooo moooo moooooo--Mo mo moooooo'm moo mooooo? Mo mooo

feel faint; like his who has footed it all day. Feel thy heart,--beats
mooo moooo; mooo moo moo moo mooooo mo moo moo. Mooo moo moooo,--moooo

it yet? Stir thyself, Starbuck!--stave it off--move, move!
mo moo? Mooo moooooo, Mooooooo!--moooo mo moo--mooo, mooo!

speak aloud!--Mast-head there! See ye my boy's hand on the
moooo moooo!--Mooo-mooo moooo! Moo mo mo moo'm mooo mo moo

hill?--Crazed;--aloft there!--keep thy keenest eye upon the boats:--
mooo?--Mooooo;--moooo moooo!--mooo moo moooooo moo mooo moo moooo:--




"Mark well the whale!--Ho! again!--drive off that hawk! see! he pecks--he
"Mooo mooo moo moooo!--Mo! moooo!--moooo moo mooo mooo! moo! mo moooo--mo

tears the vane"--pointing to the red flag flying at the main-truck--"Ha!
moooo moo mooo"--mooooooo mo moo moo mooo mooooo mo moo mooo-moooo--"Mo!

he soars away with it!--Where's the old man now? see'st thou that sight,
mo moooo mooo mooo mo!--Moooo'm moo moo moo moo? moo'mo mooo mooo moooo,

oh Ahab!--shudder, shudder!"
mo Mooo!--moooooo, moooooo!"




The boats had not gone very far, when by a signal from the mast-heads--a
Moo moooo moo moo mooo mooo moo, mooo mo m mooooo mooo moo mooo-moooo--m

downward pointed arm, Ahab knew that the whale had sounded; but
mooooooo moooooo moo, Mooo mooo mooo moo moooo moo moooooo; moo

intending to be near him at the next rising, he held on his way a little
moooooooo mo mo mooo moo mo moo mooo mooooo, mo mooo mo moo moo m mooooo

sideways from the vessel; the becharmed crew maintaining the profoundest
mooooooo mooo moo mooooo; moo moooooooo mooo moooooooooo moo moooooooooo

silence, as the head-beat waves hammered and hammered against the
moooooo, mo moo mooo-mooo moooo mooooooo moo mooooooo moooooo moo

opposing bow.
mooooooo moo.




"Drive, drive in your nails, oh ye waves! to their uttermost heads
"Moooo, moooo mo mooo moooo, mo mo moooo! mo moooo moooooooo moooo

drive them in! ye but strike a thing without a lid; and no coffin and no
moooo mooo mo! mo moo mooooo m moooo moooooo m moo; moo mo mooooo moo mo

hearse can be mine:--and hemp only can kill me! Ha! ha!"
mooooo moo mo mooo:--moo mooo mooo moo mooo mo! Mo! mo!"




Suddenly the waters around them slowly swelled in broad circles; then
Mooooooo moo mooooo mooooo mooo mooooo moooooo mo moooo moooooo; mooo

quickly upheaved, as if sideways sliding from a submerged berg of
moooooo mooooooo, mo mo mooooooo moooooo mooo m moooooooo mooo mo

ice, swiftly rising to the surface. A low rumbling sound was heard; a
moo, moooooo mooooo mo moo moooooo. M moo mooooooo moooo moo moooo; m

subterraneous hum; and then all held their breaths; as bedraggled with
moooooooooooo moo; moo mooo moo mooo moooo moooooo; mo mooooooooo mooo

trailing ropes, and harpoons, and lances, a vast form shot lengthwise,
mooooooo moooo, moo mooooooo, moo mooooo, m mooo mooo mooo mooooooooo,

but obliquely from the sea. Shrouded in a thin drooping veil of mist, it
moo moooooooo mooo moo moo. Mooooooo mo m mooo mooooooo mooo mo mooo, mo

hovered for a moment in the rainbowed air; and then fell swamping back
moooooo moo m mooooo mo moo moooooooo moo; moo mooo mooo mooooooo mooo

into the deep. Crushed thirty feet upwards, the waters flashed for
mooo moo mooo. Moooooo mooooo mooo moooooo, moo mooooo moooooo moo

an instant like heaps of fountains, then brokenly sank in a shower of
mo moooooo mooo moooo mo moooooooo, mooo mooooooo mooo mo m mooooo mo

flakes, leaving the circling surface creamed like new milk round the
mooooo, moooooo moo mooooooo moooooo moooooo mooo moo mooo moooo moo

marble trunk of the whale.
mooooo moooo mo moo moooo.




"Give way!" cried Ahab to the oarsmen, and the boats darted forward to
"Mooo moo!" moooo Mooo mo moo moooooo, moo moo moooo mooooo moooooo mo

the attack; but maddened by yesterday's fresh irons that corroded in
moo mooooo; moo mooooooo mo moooooooo'm moooo moooo mooo mooooooo mo

him, Moby Dick seemed combinedly possessed by all the angels that fell
moo, Mooo Mooo mooooo mooooooooo moooooooo mo moo moo mooooo mooo mooo

from heaven. The wide tiers of welded tendons overspreading his broad
mooo mooooo. Moo mooo moooo mo mooooo moooooo moooooooooooo moo moooo

white forehead, beneath the transparent skin, looked knitted together;
moooo mooooooo, moooooo moo moooooooooo mooo, mooooo moooooo mooooooo;

as head on, he came churning his tail among the boats; and once more
mo mooo mo, mo mooo mooooooo moo mooo moooo moo moooo; moo mooo mooo

flailed them apart; spilling out the irons and lances from the two
moooooo mooo moooo; mooooooo moo moo moooo moo mooooo mooo moo moo

mates' boats, and dashing in one side of the upper part of their bows,
moooo' moooo, moo moooooo mo moo mooo mo moo moooo mooo mo moooo mooo,

but leaving Ahab's almost without a scar.
moo moooooo Mooo'm mooooo moooooo m mooo.




While Daggoo and Queequeg were stopping the strained planks; and as the
Moooo Mooooo moo Mooooooo mooo mooooooo moo mooooooo mooooo; moo mo moo

whale swimming out from them, turned, and showed one entire flank as he
moooo mooooooo moo mooo mooo, mooooo, moo mooooo moo mooooo moooo mo mo

shot by them again; at that moment a quick cry went up. Lashed round
mooo mo mooo moooo; mo mooo mooooo m moooo moo mooo mo. Mooooo moooo

and round to the fish's back; pinioned in the turns upon turns in which,
moo moooo mo moo mooo'm mooo; mooooooo mo moo moooo mooo moooo mo moooo,

during the past night, the whale had reeled the involutions of the lines
mooooo moo mooo moooo, moo moooo moo mooooo moo moooooooooo mo moo moooo

around him, the half torn body of the Parsee was seen; his sable raiment
mooooo moo, moo mooo mooo mooo mo moo Mooooo moo mooo; moo moooo moooooo

frayed to shreds; his distended eyes turned full upon old Ahab.
mooooo mo mooooo; moo moooooooo mooo mooooo mooo mooo moo Mooo.




The harpoon dropped from his hand.
Moo moooooo moooooo mooo moo mooo.




"Befooled, befooled!"--drawing in a long lean breath--"Aye, Parsee! I
"Mooooooo, mooooooo!"--moooooo mo m mooo mooo mooooo--"Moo, Mooooo! M

see thee again.--Aye, and thou goest before; and this, THIS then is the
moo mooo moooo.--Moo, moo mooo moooo mooooo; moo mooo, MOOO mooo mo moo

hearse that thou didst promise. But I hold thee to the last letter of
mooooo mooo mooo moooo moooooo. Moo M mooo mooo mo moo mooo mooooo mo

thy word. Where is the second hearse? Away, mates, to the ship! those
moo mooo. Moooo mo moo mooooo mooooo? Mooo, moooo, mo moo mooo! moooo

boats are useless now; repair them if ye can in time, and return to
moooo moo moooooo moo; mooooo mooo mo mo moo mo mooo, moo mooooo mo

me; if not, Ahab is enough to die--Down, men! the first thing that but
mo; mo moo, Mooo mo mooooo mo moo--Mooo, moo! moo moooo moooo mooo moo

offers to jump from this boat I stand in, that thing I harpoon. Ye are
mooooo mo mooo mooo mooo mooo M moooo mo, mooo moooo M moooooo. Mo moo

not other men, but my arms and my legs; and so obey me.--Where's the
moo moooo moo, moo mo mooo moo mo mooo; moo mo mooo mo.--Moooo'm moo

whale? gone down again?"
moooo? mooo mooo moooo?"




But he looked too nigh the boat; for as if bent upon escaping with the
Moo mo mooooo moo mooo moo mooo; moo mo mo mooo mooo mooooooo mooo moo

corpse he bore, and as if the particular place of the last encounter had
mooooo mo mooo, moo mo mo moo mooooooooo moooo mo moo mooo moooooooo moo

been but a stage in his leeward voyage, Moby Dick was now again steadily
mooo moo m moooo mo moo moooooo mooooo, Mooo Mooo moo moo moooo mooooooo

swimming forward; and had almost passed the ship,--which thus far had
mooooooo moooooo; moo moo mooooo mooooo moo mooo,--moooo mooo moo moo

been sailing in the contrary direction to him, though for the present
mooo moooooo mo moo mooooooo moooooooo mo moo, mooooo moo moo moooooo

her headway had been stopped. He seemed swimming with his utmost
moo moooooo moo mooo moooooo. Mo mooooo mooooooo mooo moo mooooo

velocity, and now only intent upon pursuing his own straight path in the
mooooooo, moo moo mooo mooooo mooo mooooooo moo moo mooooooo mooo mo moo

sea.
moo.




"Oh! Ahab," cried Starbuck, "not too late is it, even now, the third
"Mo! Mooo," moooo Mooooooo, "moo moo mooo mo mo, mooo moo, moo moooo

day, to desist. See! Moby Dick seeks thee not. It is thou, thou, that
moo, mo mooooo. Moo! Mooo Mooo moooo mooo moo. Mo mo mooo, mooo, mooo

madly seekest him!"
moooo moooooo moo!"




Setting sail to the rising wind, the lonely boat was swiftly impelled to
Moooooo mooo mo moo mooooo mooo, moo mooooo mooo moo moooooo mooooooo mo

leeward, by both oars and canvas. And at last when Ahab was sliding
moooooo, mo mooo mooo moo mooooo. Moo mo mooo mooo Mooo moo moooooo

by the vessel, so near as plainly to distinguish Starbuck's face as he
mo moo mooooo, mo mooo mo moooooo mo moooooooooo Mooooooo'm mooo mo mo

leaned over the rail, he hailed him to turn the vessel about, and follow
mooooo mooo moo mooo, mo mooooo moo mo mooo moo mooooo moooo, moo mooooo

him, not too swiftly, at a judicious interval. Glancing upwards, he
moo, moo moo moooooo, mo m moooooooo mooooooo. Mooooooo moooooo, mo

saw Tashtego, Queequeg, and Daggoo, eagerly mounting to the three
moo Mooooooo, Mooooooo, moo Mooooo, moooooo mooooooo mo moo moooo

mast-heads; while the oarsmen were rocking in the two staved boats
mooo-moooo; moooo moo moooooo mooo moooooo mo moo moo mooooo moooo

which had but just been hoisted to the side, and were busily at work in
moooo moo moo mooo mooo moooooo mo moo mooo, moo mooo mooooo mo mooo mo

repairing them. One after the other, through the port-holes, as he sped,
moooooooo mooo. Moo moooo moo moooo, moooooo moo mooo-moooo, mo mo mooo,

he also caught flying glimpses of Stubb and Flask, busying themselves
mo mooo mooooo mooooo mooooooo mo Moooo moo Moooo, moooooo mooooooooo

on deck among bundles of new irons and lances. As he saw all this; as he
mo mooo moooo moooooo mo moo moooo moo mooooo. Mo mo moo moo mooo; mo mo

heard the hammers in the broken boats; far other hammers seemed driving
moooo moo moooooo mo moo mooooo moooo; moo moooo moooooo mooooo moooooo

a nail into his heart. But he rallied. And now marking that the vane or
m mooo mooo moo moooo. Moo mo moooooo. Moo moo moooooo mooo moo mooo mo

flag was gone from the main-mast-head, he shouted to Tashtego, who had
mooo moo mooo mooo moo mooo-mooo-mooo, mo moooooo mo Mooooooo, moo moo

just gained that perch, to descend again for another flag, and a hammer
mooo mooooo mooo moooo, mo moooooo moooo moo moooooo mooo, moo m mooooo

and nails, and so nail it to the mast.
moo moooo, moo mo mooo mo mo moo mooo.




Whether fagged by the three days' running chase, and the resistance
Moooooo mooooo mo moo moooo mooo' moooooo moooo, moo moo mooooooooo

to his swimming in the knotted hamper he bore; or whether it was some
mo moo mooooooo mo moo moooooo mooooo mo mooo; mo moooooo mo moo mooo

latent deceitfulness and malice in him: whichever was true, the White
mooooo moooooooooooo moo mooooo mo moo: moooooooo moo mooo, moo Moooo

Whale's way now began to abate, as it seemed, from the boat so rapidly
Moooo'm moo moo moooo mo moooo, mo mo mooooo, mooo moo mooo mo moooooo

nearing him once more; though indeed the whale's last start had not been
moooooo moo mooo mooo; mooooo mooooo moo moooo'm mooo moooo moo moo mooo

so long a one as before. And still as Ahab glided over the waves the
mo mooo m moo mo mooooo. Moo moooo mo Mooo mooooo mooo moo moooo moo

unpitying sharks accompanied him; and so pertinaciously stuck to the
moooooooo mooooo moooooooooo moo; moo mo mooooooooooooo moooo mo moo

boat; and so continually bit at the plying oars, that the blades became
mooo; moo mo moooooooooo moo mo moo mooooo mooo, mooo moo mooooo mooooo

jagged and crunched, and left small splinters in the sea, at almost
mooooo moo mooooooo, moo mooo moooo moooooooo mo moo moo, mo mooooo

every dip.
moooo moo.




"Heed them not! those teeth but give new rowlocks to your oars. Pull on!
"Mooo mooo moo! moooo moooo moo mooo moo mooooooo mo mooo mooo. Mooo mo!

'tis the better rest, the shark's jaw than the yielding water."
'moo moo mooooo mooo, moo moooo'm moo mooo moo mooooooo moooo."




"But at every bite, sir, the thin blades grow smaller and smaller!"
"Moo mo moooo mooo, moo, moo mooo mooooo mooo moooooo moo moooooo!"




"They will last long enough! pull on!--But who can tell"--he
"Mooo mooo mooo mooo mooooo! mooo mo!--Moo moo moo mooo"--mo

muttered--"whether these sharks swim to feast on the whale or on
mooooooo--"moooooo moooo mooooo mooo mo moooo mo moo moooo mo mo

Ahab?--But pull on! Aye, all alive, now--we near him. The helm! take the
Mooo?--Moo mooo mo! Moo, moo moooo, moo--mo mooo moo. Moo mooo! mooo moo

helm! let me pass,"--and so saying two of the oarsmen helped him forward
mooo! moo mo mooo,"--moo mo mooooo moo mo moo moooooo mooooo moo moooooo

to the bows of the still flying boat.
mo moo mooo mo moo moooo mooooo mooo.




At length as the craft was cast to one side, and ran ranging along
Mo mooooo mo moo moooo moo mooo mo moo mooo, moo moo moooooo moooo

with the White Whale's flank, he seemed strangely oblivious of its
mooo moo Moooo Moooo'm moooo, mo mooooo moooooooo moooooooo mo moo

advance--as the whale sometimes will--and Ahab was fairly within the
moooooo--mo moo moooo moooooooo mooo--moo Mooo moo mooooo mooooo moo

smoky mountain mist, which, thrown off from the whale's spout, curled
moooo mooooooo mooo, moooo, mooooo moo mooo moo moooo'm moooo, mooooo

round his great, Monadnock hump; he was even thus close to him; when,
moooo moo moooo, Moooooooo mooo; mo moo mooo mooo moooo mo moo; mooo,

with body arched back, and both arms lengthwise high-lifted to the
mooo mooo mooooo mooo, moo mooo mooo mooooooooo mooo-mooooo mo moo

poise, he darted his fierce iron, and his far fiercer curse into the
moooo, mo mooooo moo mooooo mooo, moo moo moo moooooo moooo mooo moo

hated whale. As both steel and curse sank to the socket, as if sucked
moooo moooo. Mo mooo moooo moo moooo mooo mo moo mooooo, mo mo mooooo

into a morass, Moby Dick sideways writhed; spasmodically rolled his nigh
mooo m mooooo, Mooo Mooo mooooooo moooooo; moooooooooooo mooooo moo mooo

flank against the bow, and, without staving a hole in it, so suddenly
moooo moooooo moo moo, moo, moooooo moooooo m mooo mo mo, mo mooooooo

canted the boat over, that had it not been for the elevated part of the
mooooo moo mooo mooo, mooo moo mo moo mooo moo moo mooooooo mooo mo moo

gunwale to which he then clung, Ahab would once more have been tossed
moooooo mo moooo mo mooo moooo, Mooo moooo mooo mooo mooo mooo mooooo

into the sea. As it was, three of the oarsmen--who foreknew not the
mooo moo moo. Mo mo moo, moooo mo moo moooooo--moo mooooooo moo moo

precise instant of the dart, and were therefore unprepared for its
moooooo moooooo mo moo mooo, moo mooo moooooooo mooooooooo moo moo

effects--these were flung out; but so fell, that, in an instant two of
moooooo--moooo mooo moooo moo; moo mo mooo, mooo, mo mo moooooo moo mo

them clutched the gunwale again, and rising to its level on a combing
mooo mooooooo moo moooooo moooo, moo mooooo mo moo moooo mo m moooooo

wave, hurled themselves bodily inboard again; the third man helplessly
mooo, mooooo mooooooooo mooooo moooooo moooo; moo moooo moo mooooooooo

dropping astern, but still afloat and swimming.
mooooooo mooooo, moo moooo mooooo moo mooooooo.




Almost simultaneously, with a mighty volition of ungraduated,
Mooooo mooooooooooooo, mooo m mooooo mooooooo mo moooooooooo,

instantaneous swiftness, the White Whale darted through the weltering
moooooooooooo moooooooo, moo Moooo Moooo mooooo moooooo moo moooooooo

sea. But when Ahab cried out to the steersman to take new turns with
moo. Moo mooo Mooo moooo moo mo moo moooooooo mo mooo moo moooo mooo

the line, and hold it so; and commanded the crew to turn round on their
moo mooo, moo mooo mo mo; moo moooooooo moo mooo mo mooo moooo mo moooo

seats, and tow the boat up to the mark; the moment the treacherous line
moooo, moo moo moo mooo mo mo moo mooo; moo mooooo moo moooooooooo mooo

felt that double strain and tug, it snapped in the empty air!
mooo mooo mooooo mooooo moo moo, mo moooooo mo moo moooo moo!




"What breaks in me? Some sinew cracks!--'tis whole again; oars! oars!
"Mooo mooooo mo mo? Mooo moooo mooooo!--'moo moooo moooo; mooo! mooo!

Burst in upon him!"
Moooo mo mooo moo!"




Hearing the tremendous rush of the sea-crashing boat, the whale wheeled
Moooooo moo mooooooooo mooo mo moo moo-mooooooo mooo, moo moooo moooooo

round to present his blank forehead at bay; but in that evolution,
moooo mo moooooo moo moooo mooooooo mo moo; moo mo mooo moooooooo,

catching sight of the nearing black hull of the ship; seemingly seeing
mooooooo moooo mo moo moooooo moooo mooo mo moo mooo; moooooooo mooooo

in it the source of all his persecutions; bethinking it--it may be--a
mo mo moo mooooo mo moo moo mooooooooooo; mooooooooo mo--mo moo mo--m

larger and nobler foe; of a sudden, he bore down upon its advancing
mooooo moo mooooo moo; mo m mooooo, mo mooo mooo mooo moo moooooooo

prow, smiting his jaws amid fiery showers of foam.
mooo, moooooo moo mooo mooo moooo moooooo mo mooo.




Ahab staggered; his hand smote his forehead. "I grow blind; hands!
Mooo moooooooo; moo mooo moooo moo mooooooo. "M mooo moooo; moooo!

stretch out before me that I may yet grope my way. Is't night?"
moooooo moo mooooo mo mooo M moo moo moooo mo moo. Mo'm moooo?"




"The whale! The ship!" cried the cringing oarsmen.
"Moo moooo! Moo mooo!" moooo moo mooooooo moooooo.




"Oars! oars! Slope downwards to thy depths, O sea, that ere it be for
"Mooo! mooo! Moooo moooooooo mo moo mooooo, M moo, mooo moo mo mo moo

ever too late, Ahab may slide this last, last time upon his mark! I see:
mooo moo mooo, Mooo moo moooo mooo mooo, mooo mooo mooo moo mooo! M moo:

the ship! the ship! Dash on, my men! Will ye not save my ship?"
moo mooo! moo mooo! Mooo mo, mo moo! Mooo mo moo mooo mo mooo?"




But as the oarsmen violently forced their boat through the
Moo mo moo moooooo moooooooo mooooo moooo mooo moooooo moo

sledge-hammering seas, the before whale-smitten bow-ends of two planks
mooooo-moooooooo mooo, moo mooooo moooo-moooooo moo-mooo mo moo mooooo

burst through, and in an instant almost, the temporarily disabled boat
moooo moooooo, moo mo mo moooooo mooooo, moo moooooooooo mooooooo mooo

lay nearly level with the waves; its half-wading, splashing crew, trying
moo mooooo moooo mooo moo moooo; moo mooo-mooooo, moooooooo mooo, mooooo

hard to stop the gap and bale out the pouring water.
mooo mo mooo moo moo moo mooo moo moo moooooo moooo.




Meantime, for that one beholding instant, Tashtego's mast-head hammer
Mooooooo, moo mooo moo moooooooo moooooo, Mooooooo'm mooo-mooo mooooo

remained suspended in his hand; and the red flag, half-wrapping him as
mooooooo moooooooo mo moo mooo; moo moo moo mooo, mooo-mooooooo moo mo

with a plaid, then streamed itself straight out from him, as his own
mooo m moooo, mooo mooooooo mooooo mooooooo moo mooo moo, mo moo moo

forward-flowing heart; while Starbuck and Stubb, standing upon the
moooooo-moooooo moooo; moooo Mooooooo moo Moooo, mooooooo mooo moo

bowsprit beneath, caught sight of the down-coming monster just as soon
mooooooo moooooo, mooooo moooo mo moo mooo-mooooo moooooo mooo mo mooo

as he.
mo mo.




"The whale, the whale! Up helm, up helm! Oh, all ye sweet powers of air,
"Moo moooo, moo moooo! Mo mooo, mo mooo! Mo, moo mo moooo mooooo mo moo,

now hug me close! Let not Starbuck die, if die he must, in a woman's
moo moo mo moooo! Moo moo Mooooooo moo, mo moo mo mooo, mo m moooo'm

fainting fit. Up helm, I say--ye fools, the jaw! the jaw! Is this the
mooooooo moo. Mo mooo, M moo--mo moooo, moo moo! moo moo! Mo mooo moo

end of all my bursting prayers? all my life-long fidelities? Oh, Ahab,
moo mo moo mo mooooooo moooooo? moo mo mooo-mooo mooooooooo? Mo, Mooo,

Ahab, lo, thy work. Steady! helmsman, steady. Nay, nay! Up helm again!
Mooo, mo, moo mooo. Mooooo! mooooooo, mooooo. Moo, moo! Mo mooo moooo!

He turns to meet us! Oh, his unappeasable brow drives on towards one,
Mo moooo mo mooo mo! Mo, moo mooooooooooo mooo mooooo mo moooooo moo,

whose duty tells him he cannot depart. My God, stand by me now!"
moooo mooo moooo moo mo mooooo mooooo. Mo Moo, moooo mo mo moo!"




"Stand not by me, but stand under me, whoever you are that will now help
"Moooo moo mo mo, moo moooo moooo mo, moooooo moo moo mooo mooo moo mooo

Stubb; for Stubb, too, sticks here. I grin at thee, thou grinning whale!
Moooo; moo Moooo, moo, mooooo mooo. M mooo mo mooo, mooo mooooooo moooo!

Who ever helped Stubb, or kept Stubb awake, but Stubb's own unwinking
Moo mooo mooooo Moooo, mo mooo Moooo moooo, moo Moooo'm moo moooooooo

eye? And now poor Stubb goes to bed upon a mattrass that is all too
moo? Moo moo mooo Moooo mooo mo moo mooo m mooooooo mooo mo moo moo

soft; would it were stuffed with brushwood! I grin at thee, thou
mooo; moooo mo mooo moooooo mooo moooooooo! M mooo mo mooo, mooo

grinning whale! Look ye, sun, moon, and stars! I call ye assassins of
mooooooo moooo! Mooo mo, moo, mooo, moo moooo! M mooo mo moooooooo mo

as good a fellow as ever spouted up his ghost. For all that, I would yet
mo mooo m mooooo mo mooo moooooo mo moo moooo. Moo moo mooo, M moooo moo

ring glasses with ye, would ye but hand the cup! Oh, oh! oh, oh! thou
mooo moooooo mooo mo, moooo mo moo mooo moo moo! Mo, mo! mo, mo! mooo

grinning whale, but there'll be plenty of gulping soon! Why fly ye
mooooooo moooo, moo moooo'mo mo mooooo mo moooooo mooo! Moo moo mo

not, O Ahab! For me, off shoes and jacket to it; let Stubb die in
moo, M Mooo! Moo mo, moo moooo moo mooooo mo mo; moo Moooo moo mo

his drawers! A most mouldy and over salted death, though;--cherries!
moo moooooo! M mooo mooooo moo mooo mooooo moooo, mooooo;--mooooooo!

cherries! cherries! Oh, Flask, for one red cherry ere we die!"
mooooooo! mooooooo! Mo, Moooo, moo moo moo mooooo moo mo moo!"




"Cherries? I only wish that we were where they grow. Oh, Stubb, I hope
"Mooooooo? M mooo mooo mooo mo mooo moooo mooo mooo. Mo, Moooo, M mooo

my poor mother's drawn my part-pay ere this; if not, few coppers will
mo mooo mooooo'm moooo mo mooo-moo moo mooo; mo moo, moo moooooo mooo

now come to her, for the voyage is up."
moo mooo mo moo, moo moo mooooo mo mo."




From the ship's bows, nearly all the seamen now hung inactive; hammers,
Mooo moo mooo'm mooo, mooooo moo moo mooooo moo mooo mooooooo; moooooo,

bits of plank, lances, and harpoons, mechanically retained in their
mooo mo moooo, mooooo, moo mooooooo, mooooooooooo mooooooo mo moooo

hands, just as they had darted from their various employments; all their
moooo, mooo mo mooo moo mooooo mooo moooo moooooo moooooooooo; moo moooo

enchanted eyes intent upon the whale, which from side to side strangely
moooooooo mooo mooooo mooo moo moooo, moooo mooo mooo mo mooo moooooooo

vibrating his predestinating head, sent a broad band of overspreading
moooooooo moo mooooooooooooo mooo, mooo m moooo mooo mo moooooooooooo

semicircular foam before him as he rushed. Retribution, swift vengeance,
mooooooooooo mooo mooooo moo mo mo mooooo. Moooooooooo, moooo moooooooo,

eternal malice were in his whole aspect, and spite of all that mortal
moooooo mooooo mooo mo moo moooo mooooo, moo moooo mo moo mooo mooooo

man could do, the solid white buttress of his forehead smote the ship's
moo moooo mo, moo moooo moooo mooooooo mo moo mooooooo moooo moo mooo'm

starboard bow, till men and timbers reeled. Some fell flat upon their
moooooooo moo, mooo moo moo moooooo mooooo. Mooo mooo mooo mooo moooo

faces. Like dislodged trucks, the heads of the harpooneers aloft shook
moooo. Mooo moooooooo mooooo, moo moooo mo moo moooooooooo moooo moooo

on their bull-like necks. Through the breach, they heard the waters
mo moooo mooo-mooo moooo. Moooooo moo mooooo, mooo moooo moo mooooo

pour, as mountain torrents down a flume.
mooo, mo mooooooo mooooooo mooo m moooo.




"The ship! The hearse!--the second hearse!" cried Ahab from the boat;
"Moo mooo! Moo mooooo!--moo mooooo mooooo!" moooo Mooo mooo moo mooo;

"its wood could only be American!"
"moo mooo moooo mooo mo Mooooooo!"




Diving beneath the settling ship, the whale ran quivering along its
Mooooo moooooo moo mooooooo mooo, moo moooo moo moooooooo moooo moo

keel; but turning under water, swiftly shot to the surface again, far
mooo; moo moooooo moooo moooo, moooooo mooo mo moo moooooo moooo, moo

off the other bow, but within a few yards of Ahab's boat, where, for a
moo moo moooo moo, moo mooooo m moo moooo mo Mooo'm mooo, moooo, moo m

time, he lay quiescent.
mooo, mo moo moooooooo.




"I turn my body from the sun. What ho, Tashtego! let me hear thy hammer.
"M mooo mo mooo mooo moo moo. Mooo mo, Mooooooo! moo mo mooo moo mooooo.

Oh! ye three unsurrendered spires of mine; thou uncracked keel; and only
Mo! mo moooo moooooooooooo mooooo mo mooo; mooo moooooooo mooo; moo mooo

god-bullied hull; thou firm deck, and haughty helm, and Pole-pointed
moo-moooooo mooo; mooo mooo mooo, moo moooooo mooo, moo Mooo-moooooo

prow,--death-glorious ship! must ye then perish, and without me? Am I
mooo,--moooo-mooooooo mooo! mooo mo mooo mooooo, moo moooooo mo? Mo M

cut off from the last fond pride of meanest shipwrecked captains? Oh,
moo moo mooo moo mooo mooo moooo mo moooooo moooooooooo mooooooo? Mo,

lonely death on lonely life! Oh, now I feel my topmost greatness lies in
mooooo moooo mo mooooo mooo! Mo, moo M mooo mo moooooo moooooooo mooo mo

my topmost grief. Ho, ho! from all your furthest bounds, pour ye now in,
mo moooooo moooo. Mo, mo! mooo moo mooo mooooooo mooooo, mooo mo moo mo,

ye bold billows of my whole foregone life, and top this one piled comber
mo mooo moooooo mo mo moooo mooooooo mooo, moo moo mooo moo moooo mooooo

of my death! Towards thee I roll, thou all-destroying but unconquering
mo mo moooo! Moooooo mooo M mooo, mooo moo-mooooooooo moo mooooooooooo

whale; to the last I grapple with thee; from hell's heart I stab at
moooo; mo moo mooo M moooooo mooo mooo; mooo mooo'm moooo M mooo mo

thee; for hate's sake I spit my last breath at thee. Sink all coffins
mooo; moo mooo'm mooo M mooo mo mooo mooooo mo mooo. Mooo moo moooooo

and all hearses to one common pool! and since neither can be mine, let
moo moo moooooo mo moo mooooo mooo! moo moooo moooooo moo mo mooo, moo

me then tow to pieces, while still chasing thee, though tied to thee,
mo mooo moo mo mooooo, moooo moooo moooooo mooo, mooooo mooo mo mooo,

thou damned whale! THUS, I give up the spear!"
mooo mooooo moooo! MOOO, M mooo mo moo moooo!"




The harpoon was darted; the stricken whale flew forward; with igniting
Moo moooooo moo mooooo; moo mooooooo moooo mooo moooooo; mooo mooooooo

velocity the line ran through the grooves;--ran foul. Ahab stooped to
mooooooo moo mooo moo moooooo moo moooooo;--moo mooo. Mooo moooooo mo

clear it; he did clear it; but the flying turn caught him round the
moooo mo; mo moo moooo mo; moo moo mooooo mooo mooooo moo moooo moo

neck, and voicelessly as Turkish mutes bowstring their victim, he was
mooo, moo moooooooooo mo Moooooo moooo moooooooo moooo mooooo, mo moo

shot out of the boat, ere the crew knew he was gone. Next instant, the
mooo moo mo moo mooo, moo moo mooo mooo mo moo mooo. Mooo moooooo, moo

heavy eye-splice in the rope's final end flew out of the stark-empty
moooo moo-mooooo mo moo mooo'm moooo moo mooo moo mo moo moooo-moooo

tub, knocked down an oarsman, and smiting the sea, disappeared in its
moo, moooooo mooo mo moooooo, moo moooooo moo moo, moooooooooo mo moo

depths.
mooooo.




For an instant, the tranced boat's crew stood still; then turned. "The
Moo mo moooooo, moo moooooo mooo'm mooo moooo moooo; mooo mooooo. "Moo

ship? Great God, where is the ship?" Soon they through dim, bewildering
mooo? Moooo Moo, moooo mo moo mooo?" Mooo mooo moooooo moo, moooooooooo

mediums saw her sidelong fading phantom, as in the gaseous Fata Morgana;
moooooo moo moo mooooooo mooooo moooooo, mo mo moo moooooo Mooo Moooooo;

only the uppermost masts out of water; while fixed by infatuation, or
mooo moo moooooooo moooo moo mo moooo; moooo moooo mo moooooooooo, mo

fidelity, or fate, to their once lofty perches, the pagan harpooneers
mooooooo, mo mooo, mo moooo mooo moooo moooooo, moo moooo moooooooooo

still maintained their sinking lookouts on the sea. And now, concentric
moooo mooooooooo moooo moooooo mooooooo mo moo moo. Moo moo, mooooooooo

circles seized the lone boat itself, and all its crew, and each floating
moooooo mooooo moo mooo mooo mooooo, moo moo moo mooo, moo mooo mooooooo

oar, and every lance-pole, and spinning, animate and inanimate, all
moo, moo moooo moooo-mooo, moo mooooooo, moooooo moo moooooooo, moo

round and round in one vortex, carried the smallest chip of the Pequod
moooo moo moooo mo moo mooooo, moooooo moo mooooooo mooo mo moo Mooooo

out of sight.
moo mo moooo.




But as the last whelmings intermixingly poured themselves over the
Moo mo moo mooo moooooooo moooooooooooo mooooo mooooooooo mooo moo

sunken head of the Indian at the mainmast, leaving a few inches of the
mooooo mooo mo moo Mooooo mo moo mooooooo, moooooo m moo mooooo mo moo

erect spar yet visible, together with long streaming yards of the flag,
moooo mooo moo moooooo, mooooooo mooo mooo moooooooo moooo mo moo mooo,

which calmly undulated, with ironical coincidings, over the destroying
moooo mooooo moooooooo, mooo mooooooo moooooooooo, mooo moo mooooooooo

billows they almost touched;--at that instant, a red arm and a hammer
moooooo mooo mooooo moooooo;--mo mooo moooooo, m moo moo moo m mooooo

hovered backwardly uplifted in the open air, in the act of nailing
moooooo mooooooooo mooooooo mo moo mooo moo, mo moo moo mo moooooo

the flag faster and yet faster to the subsiding spar. A sky-hawk that
moo mooo mooooo moo moo mooooo mo moo moooooooo mooo. M moo-mooo mooo

tauntingly had followed the main-truck downwards from its natural home
mooooooooo moo mooooooo moo mooo-moooo moooooooo mooo moo moooooo mooo

among the stars, pecking at the flag, and incommoding Tashtego there;
moooo moo moooo, moooooo mo moo mooo, moo moooooooooo Mooooooo moooo;

this bird now chanced to intercept its broad fluttering wing between the
mooo mooo moo moooooo mo moooooooo moo moooo mooooooooo mooo moooooo moo

hammer and the wood; and simultaneously feeling that etherial thrill,
mooooo moo moo mooo; moo mooooooooooooo moooooo mooo mooooooo mooooo,

the submerged savage beneath, in his death-gasp, kept his hammer frozen
moo moooooooo mooooo moooooo, mo moo moooo-mooo, mooo moo mooooo mooooo

there; and so the bird of heaven, with archangelic shrieks, and his
moooo; moo mo moo mooo mo mooooo, mooo moooooooooo moooooo, moo moo

imperial beak thrust upwards, and his whole captive form folded in the
mooooooo mooo mooooo moooooo, moo moo moooo moooooo mooo mooooo mo moo

flag of Ahab, went down with his ship, which, like Satan, would not sink
mooo mo Mooo, mooo mooo mooo moo mooo, moooo, mooo Moooo, moooo moo mooo

to hell till she had dragged a living part of heaven along with her, and
mo mooo mooo moo moo moooooo m mooooo mooo mo mooooo moooo mooo moo, moo

helmeted herself with it.
mooooooo moooooo mooo mo.




Now small fowls flew screaming over the yet yawning gulf; a sullen white
Moo moooo moooo mooo moooooooo mooo moo moo moooooo mooo; m mooooo moooo

surf beat against its steep sides; then all collapsed, and the great
mooo mooo moooooo moo moooo moooo; mooo moo moooooooo, moo moo moooo

shroud of the sea rolled on as it rolled five thousand years ago.
mooooo mo moo moo mooooo mo mo mo mooooo mooo mooooooo moooo moo.













Epilogue
Mooooooo




"AND I ONLY AM ESCAPED ALONE TO TELL THEE" Job.
"MOO M MOOO MO MOOOOOO MOOOO MO MOOO MOOO" Moo.




The drama's done. Why then here does any one step forth?--Because one
Moo moooo'm mooo. Moo mooo mooo mooo moo moo mooo moooo?--Moooooo moo

did survive the wreck.
moo moooooo moo moooo.




It so chanced, that after the Parsee's disappearance, I was he whom the
Mo mo moooooo, mooo moooo moo Mooooo'm moooooooooooo, M moo mo mooo moo

Fates ordained to take the place of Ahab's bowsman, when that bowsman
Moooo mooooooo mo mooo moo moooo mo Mooo'm moooooo, mooo mooo moooooo

assumed the vacant post; the same, who, when on the last day the three
moooooo moo mooooo mooo; moo mooo, moo, mooo mo moo mooo moo moo moooo

men were tossed from out of the rocking boat, was dropped astern. So,
moo mooo mooooo mooo moo mo moo moooooo mooo, moo moooooo mooooo. Mo,

floating on the margin of the ensuing scene, and in full sight of it,
mooooooo mo moo mooooo mo moo moooooo moooo, moo mo mooo moooo mo mo,

when the halfspent suction of the sunk ship reached me, I was then,
mooo moo moooooooo moooooo mo moo mooo mooo moooooo mo, M moo mooo,

but slowly, drawn towards the closing vortex. When I reached it, it had
moo mooooo, moooo moooooo moo moooooo mooooo. Mooo M moooooo mo, mo moo

subsided to a creamy pool. Round and round, then, and ever contracting
mooooooo mo m mooooo mooo. Moooo moo moooo, mooo, moo mooo moooooooooo

towards the button-like black bubble at the axis of that slowly wheeling
moooooo moo mooooo-mooo moooo mooooo mo moo mooo mo mooo mooooo mooooooo

circle, like another Ixion I did revolve. Till, gaining that vital
mooooo, mooo moooooo Moooo M moo moooooo. Mooo, moooooo mooo moooo

centre, the black bubble upward burst; and now, liberated by reason of
mooooo, moo moooo mooooo mooooo moooo; moo moo, moooooooo mo mooooo mo

its cunning spring, and, owing to its great buoyancy, rising with great
moo moooooo mooooo, moo, moooo mo moo moooo mooooooo, mooooo mooo moooo

force, the coffin life-buoy shot lengthwise from the sea, fell over, and
moooo, moo mooooo mooo-mooo mooo mooooooooo mooo moo moo, mooo mooo, moo

floated by my side. Buoyed up by that coffin, for almost one whole day
moooooo mo mo mooo. Mooooo mo mo mooo mooooo, moo mooooo moo moooo moo

and night, I floated on a soft and dirgelike main. The unharming sharks,
moo moooo, M moooooo mo m mooo moo moooooooo mooo. Moo moooooooo mooooo,

they glided by as if with padlocks on their mouths; the savage sea-hawks
mooo mooooo mo mo mo mooo mooooooo mo moooo mooooo; moo mooooo moo-moooo

sailed with sheathed beaks. On the second day, a sail drew near, nearer,
mooooo mooo mooooooo moooo. Mo moo mooooo moo, m mooo mooo mooo, mooooo,

and picked me up at last. It was the devious-cruising Rachel, that in
moo mooooo mo mo mo mooo. Mo moo moo moooooo-mooooooo Mooooo, mooo mo

her retracing search after her missing children, only found another
moo moooooooo mooooo moooo moo moooooo mooooooo, mooo moooo moooooo

orphan.
mooooo.
















End of Project Gutenberg's Moby Dick; or The Whale, by Herman Melville
Moo mo Moooooo Moooooooo'm Mooo Mooo; mo Moo Moooo, mo Mooooo Mooooooo




*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MOBY DICK; OR THE WHALE ***
*** MOO MO MOOO MOOOOOO MOOOOOOOO MOOOO MOOO MOOO; MO MOO MOOOO ***




***** This file should be named 2701.txt or 2701.zip *****
***** Mooo mooo mooooo mo moooo mooo.moo mo mooo.moo *****

This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
Mooo moo moo mooooooooo moooo mo moooooo moooooo mooo mo moooo mo:

        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/7/0/2701/
        mooo://moo.moooooooo.moo/m/m/m/mooo/




Produced by Daniel Lazarus and Jonesey
Mooooooo mo Mooooo Moooooo moo Moooooo




Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
Moooooo mooooooo mooo moooooo moo mooooooo moo--moo moo mooooooo

will be renamed.
mooo mo moooooo.




Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
Mooooooo moo moooo mooo mooooo mooooo moooo mooooooo moooo mooo mo

one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
moo mooo m Mooooo Mooooo moooooooo mo moooo moooo, mo moo Mooooooooo

(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
(moo moo!) moo mooo moo mooooooooo mo mo moo Mooooo Mooooo moooooo

permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
mooooooooo moo moooooo mooooo moooooooo moooooooo.  Moooooo moooo,

set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
moo moooo mo moo Moooooo Moooo mo Moo mooo mo mooo moooooo, moooo mo

copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
moooooo moo mooooooooooo Moooooo Moooooooo-mo mooooooooo moooo mo

protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
moooooo moo MOOOOOO MOOOOOOOO-mo moooooo moo moooooooo.  Moooooo

Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
Moooooooo mo m mooooooooo moooooooo, moo moo moo mo mooo mo moo

charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
mooooo moo moo mOoooo, mooooo moo moooooo mooooooo mooooooooo.  Mo moo

do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
mo moo mooooo mooooooo moo mooooo mo mooo mOooo, moooooooo mooo moo

rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
moooo mo mooo mooo.  Moo moo moo mooo mOooo moo mooooo moo moooooo

such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
mooo mo mooooooo mo mooooooooo moooo, moooooo, mooooooooooo moo

research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
mooooooo.  Mooo moo mo mooooooo moo moooooo moo moooo mooo--moo moo mo

practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
moooooooooo MOOOOOOO mooo mooooo mooooo mOoooo.  Mooooooooooooo mo

subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
moooooo mo moo moooooooo moooooo, mooooooooo mooooooooo

redistribution.
mooooooooooooo.










*** START: FULL LICENSE ***
*** MOOOO: MOOO MOOOOOO ***




THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
MOO MOOO MOOOOOO MOOOOOOOO MOOOOOO

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK
MOOOOO MOOO MOOO MOOOOO MOO MOOOOOOOOO MO MOO MOOO MOOO




To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
Mo moooooo moo Moooooo Moooooooo-mo moooooo mo moooooooo moo mooo

distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
mooooooooooo mo mooooooooo moooo, mo moooo mo mooooooooooo mooo mooo

(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
(mo moo moooo mooo mooooooooo mo moo moo mooo moo mooooo "Moooooo

Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Moooooooo"), moo moooo mo mooooo mooo moo moo moooo mo moo Mooo Moooooo

Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
Moooooooo-mo Moooooo (moooooooo mooo mooo mooo mo mooooo mo

http://gutenberg.org/license).
mooo://moooooooo.moo/moooooo).







Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
Moooooo m.  Moooooo Moooo mo Moo moo Mooooooooooooo Moooooo Moooooooo-mo

electronic works
mooooooooo moooo




1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
m.M.  Mo moooooo mo moooo moo mooo mo mooo Moooooo Moooooooo-mo

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
mooooooooo mooo, moo mooooooo mooo moo mooo mooo, mooooooooo, moooo mo

and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
moo mooooo moo moo moooo mo mooo moooooo moo mooooooooooo mooooooo

(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
(moooooooo/moooooooo) moooooooo.  Mo moo mo moo moooo mo moooo mo moo

the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
moo moooo mo mooo moooooooo, moo mooo moooo moooo moo mooooo mo moooooo

all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
moo mooooo mo Moooooo Moooooooo-mo mooooooooo moooo mo mooo mooooooooo.

If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Mo moo mooo m moo moo moooooooo m mooo mo mo mooooo mo m Moooooo

Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
Moooooooo-mo mooooooooo mooo moo moo mo moo moooo mo mo moooo mo moo

terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
moooo mo mooo moooooooo, moo moo mooooo m mooooo mooo moo mooooo mo

entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.
mooooo mo mooo moo mooo moo moo mo moo moooo mo moooooooo m.M.m.




1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
m.M.  "Moooooo Moooooooo" mo m mooooooooo moooooooo.  Mo moo mooo mo

used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
mooo mo mo mooooooooo mo moo moo mooo mo mooooooooo mooo mo mooooo moo

agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
moooo mo mo moooo mo moo moooo mo mooo moooooooo.  Moooo moo m moo

things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
mooooo mooo moo moo mo mooo mooo Moooooo Moooooooo-mo mooooooooo moooo

even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
mooo moooooo moooooooo mooo moo mooo moooo mo mooo moooooooo.  Moo

paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
moooooooo m.M moooo.  Moooo moo m moo mo mooooo moo moo mo mooo Moooooo

Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
Moooooooo-mo mooooooooo moooo mo moo mooooo moo moooo mo mooo moooooooo

and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
moo mooo mooooooo mooo mooooo mooooo mo Moooooo Moooooooo-mo mooooooooo

works.  See paragraph 1.E below.
moooo.  Moo moooooooo m.M moooo.




1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
m.M.  Moo Moooooo Moooooooo Mooooooo Moooooo Mooooooooo ("moo Mooooooooo"

or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
mo MOOOO), mooo m moooooooooo moooooooo mo moo mooooooooo mo Moooooo

Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
Moooooooo-mo mooooooooo moooo.  Mooooo moo moo mooooooooo moooo mo moo

collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
mooooooooo moo mo moo mooooo mooooo mo moo Mooooo Mooooo.  Mo mo

individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
mooooooooo mooo mo mo moo mooooo mooooo mo moo Mooooo Mooooo moo moo moo

located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
moooooo mo moo Mooooo Mooooo, mo mo moo moooo m moooo mo moooooo moo mooo

copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
moooooo, mooooooooooo, mooooooooo, mooooooooo mo mooooooo mooooooooo

works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
moooo moooo mo moo mooo mo mooo mo moo mooooooooo mo Moooooo Moooooooo

are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
moo moooooo.  Mo mooooo, mo mooo mooo moo mooo moooooo moo Moooooo

Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
Moooooooo-mo moooooo mo moooooooo mooo mooooo mo mooooooooo moooo mo

freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
mooooo moooooo Moooooo Moooooooo-mo moooo mo mooooooooo mooo moo moooo mo

this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
mooo moooooooo moo moooooo moo Moooooo Moooooooo-mo mooo mooooooooo mooo

the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
moo mooo.  Moo moo mooooo mooooo mooo moo moooo mo mooo moooooooo mo

keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
moooooo mooo mooo mo moo mooo mooooo mooo moo mooooooo mooo Moooooo

Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.
Moooooooo-mo Moooooo mooo moo moooo mo moooooo mooooo mooo mooooo.




1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
m.M.  Moo moooooooo mooo mo moo moooo moooo moo moo moooooo mooo mooooo

what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
mooo moo moo mo mooo mooo mooo.  Moooooooo mooo mo mooo moooooooo moo mo

a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
m mooooooo moooo mo mooooo.  Mo moo moo moooooo moo Mooooo Mooooo, moooo

the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
moo mooo mo mooo moooooo mo mooooooo mo moo moooo mo mooo moooooooo

before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
mooooo moooooooooo, moooooo, mooooooooo, mooooooooo, mooooooooooo mo

creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
mooooooo mooooooooo moooo moooo mo mooo mooo mo moo moooo Moooooo

Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
Moooooooo-mo mooo.  Moo Mooooooooo moooo mo moooooooooooooo mooooooooo

the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
moo moooooooo mooooo mo moo mooo mo moo moooooo moooooo moo Mooooo

States.
Mooooo.




1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:
m.M.  Mooooo moo mooo moooooo moo mooooooooo mo Moooooo Moooooooo:




1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
m.M.m.  Moo moooooooo mooooooo, mooo mooooo moooo mo, mo moooo moooooooo

access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
mooooo mo, moo mooo Moooooo Moooooooo-mo Moooooo mooo mooooo moooooooooo

whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
mooooooo moo mooo mo m Moooooo Moooooooo-mo mooo (moo mooo mo moooo moo

phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
mooooo "Moooooo Moooooooo" moooooo, mo mooo moooo moo mooooo "Moooooo

Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
Moooooooo" mo mooooooooo) mo mooooooo, moooooooo, moooooooo, mooooo,

copied or distributed:
mooooo mo moooooooooo:




This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
Mooo mOooo mo moo moo moo mo mooooo mooooooo mo mo mooo moo mooo

almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
mooooo mo mooooooooooo mooooooooo.  Moo moo mooo mo, mooo mo mooo mo

re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
mo-moo mo moooo moo moooo mo moo Moooooo Moooooooo Moooooo mooooooo

with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org
mooo mooo mOooo mo mooooo mo moo.moooooooo.moo




1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
m.M.m.  Mo mo mooooooooo Moooooo Moooooooo-mo mooooooooo mooo mo moooooo

from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
mooo moo mooooo mooooo (mooo moo moooooo m mooooo mooooooooo mooo mo mo

posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
mooooo mooo mooooooooo mo moo moooooooo mooooo), moo mooo moo mo mooooo

and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
moo moooooooooo mo mooooo mo moo Mooooo Mooooo moooooo mooooo moo mooo

or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
mo moooooo.  Mo moo moo mooooooooooooo mo moooooooo mooooo mo m mooo

with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
mooo moo mooooo "Moooooo Moooooooo" mooooooooo mooo mo moooooooo mo moo

work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
mooo, moo mooo mooooo mooooo mooo moo mooooooooooo mo mooooooooo m.M.m

through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
moooooo m.M.m mo mooooo mooooooooo moo moo moo mo moo mooo moo moo

Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
Moooooo Moooooooo-mo moooooooo mo moo moooo mo mooooooooo m.M.m mo

1.E.9.
m.M.m.




1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
m.M.m.  Mo mo mooooooooo Moooooo Moooooooo-mo mooooooooo mooo mo mooooo

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
mooo moo mooooooooo mo moo moooooooo mooooo, mooo moo moo mooooooooooo

must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
mooo mooooo mooo mooo mooooooooo m.M.m moooooo m.M.m moo moo mooooooooo

terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
moooo moooooo mo moo moooooooo mooooo.  Mooooooooo moooo mooo mo mooooo

to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
mo moo Moooooo Moooooooo-mo Moooooo moo moo moooo mooooo mooo moo

permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.
mooooooooo mo moo moooooooo mooooo moooo mo moo moooooooo mo mooo mooo.




1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
m.M.m.  Mo moo mooooo mo mooooo mo mooooo moo mooo Moooooo Moooooooo-mo

License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
Moooooo moooo mooo mooo mooo, mo moo moooo mooooooooo m mooo mo mooo

work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.
mooo mo moo moooo mooo mooooooooo mooo Moooooo Moooooooo-mo.




1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
m.M.m.  Mo moo mooo, moooooo, moooooo, mooooooooo mo mooooooooooo mooo

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
mooooooooo mooo, mo moo mooo mo mooo mooooooooo mooo, moooooo

prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
moooooooooo mooooooooo moo mooooooo moo moooo mo moooooooo m.M.m mooo

active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
mooooo moooo mo moooooooo mooooo mo moo mooo moooo mo moo Moooooo

Gutenberg-tm License.
Moooooooo-mo Moooooo.




1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
m.M.m.  Moo moo moooooo mo moo mooooooooo mooo mooo mo moo mooooo,

compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
mooooooooo, mooooo mo, mooooooooooooo mo moooooooooo mooo, moooooooo moo

word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
mooo mooooooooo mo moooooooo mooo.  Moooooo, mo moo moooooo mooooo mo mo

distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
mooooooooo mooooo mo m Moooooo Moooooooo-mo mooo mo m mooooo moooo mooo

"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
"Moooo Moooooo MOOOO" mo moooo mooooo mooo mo moo mooooooo moooooo

posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
mooooo mo moo mooooooo Moooooo Moooooooo-mo moo mooo (moo.moooooooo.moo),

you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
moo mooo, mo mo mooooooooo mooo, moo mo moooooo mo moo mooo, moooooo m

copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
mooo, m moooo mo moooooooo m mooo, mo m moooo mo moooooooo m mooo mooo

request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
moooooo, mo moo mooo mo moo mooooooo "Moooo Moooooo MOOOO" mo moooo

form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
mooo.  Moo moooooooo mooooo mooo moooooo moo mooo Moooooo Moooooooo-mo

License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.
Moooooo mo moooooooo mo moooooooo m.M.m.




1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
m.M.m.  Mo moo mooooo m moo moo mooooo mo, moooooo, mooooooooo,

performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
mooooooooo, moooooo mo mooooooooooo moo Moooooo Moooooooo-mo moooo

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.
mooooo moo mooooo mooo moooooooo m.M.m mo m.M.m.




1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
m.M.m.  Moo moo mooooo m mooooooooo moo moo mooooo mo mo moooooooo

access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
mooooo mo mo mooooooooooo Moooooo Moooooooo-mo mooooooooo moooo mooooooo

that
mooo




- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
- Moo moo m moooooo moo mo mo% mo moo moooo moooooo moo mooooo mooo

     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     moo moo mo Moooooo Moooooooo-mo moooo mooooooooo moooo moo mooooo

     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     moo moooooo moo mo moooooooo mooo mooooooooo moooo.  Moo moo mo

     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     mooo mo moo moooo mo moo Moooooo Moooooooo-mo moooooooo, moo mo

     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     moo mooooo mo mooooo moooooooo moooo mooo moooooooo mo moo

     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     Moooooo Moooooooo Mooooooo Moooooo Mooooooooo.  Moooooo mooooooo

     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     mooo mo mooo mooooo mo mooo moooooooo mooo mooo mo moooo moo

     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     moooooo (mo moo moooooo mooooooo mo moooooo) mooo mooooooo moo

     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     moooooo.  Moooooo mooooooo mooooo mo moooooo mooooo mo mooo moo

     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     mooo mo moo Moooooo Moooooooo Mooooooo Moooooo Mooooooooo mo moo

     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     moooooo moooooooo mo Moooooo m, "Moooooooooo moooo moooooooo mo

     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."
     moo Moooooo Moooooooo Mooooooo Moooooo Mooooooooo."




- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
- Moo moooooo m mooo mooooo mo moo moooo mooo mo m mooo moo mooooooo

     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     moo mo moooooo (mo mo m-mooo) mooooo mo mooo mo moooooo mooo m/mo

     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     mooo moo moooo mo moo moooo mo moo mooo Moooooo Moooooooo-mo

     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     Moooooo.  Moo mooo moooooo mooo m mooo mo mooooo mo

     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     moooooo moo mooooo mo moo moooo moooooooo mo m mooooooo mooooo

     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     moo moooooooooo moo moo mo moo moo mooooo mo moooo mooooo mo

     Project Gutenberg-tm works.
     Moooooo Moooooooo-mo moooo.




- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
- Moo moooooo, mo mooooooooo mooo moooooooo m.M.m, m mooo mooooo mo moo

     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     moooo mooo moo m mooo mo m moooooooooo mooo, mo m mooooo mo moo

     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     mooooooooo mooo mo mooooooooo moo mooooooo mo moo mooooo mo mooo

     of receipt of the work.
     mo moooooo mo moo mooo.




- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
- Moo mooooo mooo moo moooo moooo mo mooo moooooooo moo mooo

     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.
     mooooooooooo mo Moooooo Moooooooo-mo moooo.




1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
m.M.m.  Mo moo mooo mo mooooo m moo mo mooooooooo m Moooooo Moooooooo-mo

electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
mooooooooo mooo mo moooo mo moooo mo moooooooo moooo mooo moo moo

forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
moooo mo mooo moooooooo, moo mooo mooooo mooooooooo mo moooooo mooo

both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
mooo moo Moooooo Moooooooo Mooooooo Moooooo Mooooooooo moo Moooooo

Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Mooo, moo moooo mo moo Moooooo Moooooooo-mo moooooooo.  Moooooo moo

Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.
Mooooooooo mo moo moooo mo Moooooo m moooo.




1.F.
m.M.




1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
m.M.m.  Moooooo Moooooooo mooooooooo moo moooooooo mooooo mooooooooooo

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
mooooo mo mooooooo, mo moooooooo mooooooo mo, mooooooooo moo moooooooo

public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
mooooo mooooo moooo mo mooooooo moo Moooooo Moooooooo-mo

collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
mooooooooo.  Moooooo moooo moooooo, Moooooo Moooooooo-mo mooooooooo

works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
moooo, moo moo mooooo mo moooo mooo moo mo mooooo, moo moooooo

"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
"Moooooo," mooo mo, moo moo moooooo mo, mooooooooo, mooooooooo mo

corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
moooooo mooo, moooooooooooo mooooo, m moooooooo mo moooo mooooooooooo

property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
mooooooo mooooooooooo, m moooooooo mo moooooo mooo mo moooo mooooo, m

computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
mooooooo moooo, mo mooooooo moooo mooo mooooo mo mooooo mo mooo mo

your equipment.
mooo moooooooo.




1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
m.M.m.  MOOOOOO MOOOOOOO, MOOOOOOOOO MO MOOOOOO - Mooooo moo moo "Moooo

of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
mo Moooooooooo mo Mooooo" moooooooo mo moooooooo m.M.m, moo Moooooo

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Moooooooo Mooooooo Moooooo Mooooooooo, moo moooo mo moo Moooooo

Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Moooooooo-mo moooooooo, moo moo moooo moooo mooooooooooo m Moooooo

Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
Moooooooo-mo mooooooooo mooo moooo mooo moooooooo, mooooooo moo

liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
moooooooo mo moo moo moooooo, moooo moo mooooooo, moooooooo moooo

fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
mooo.  MOO MOOOO MOOO MOO MOOO MO MOOOOOOO MOO MOOOOOOOOO, MOOOOO

LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
MOOOOOOOO, MOOOOO MO MOOOOOOO MO MOOOOO MO MOOOOOOO MOOOOO MOOOO

PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
MOOOOOOO MO MOOOOOOOO MO.  MOO MOOOO MOOO MOO MOOOOOOOOO, MOO

TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
MOOOOOOOO MOOOO, MOO MOO MOOOOOOOOOO MOOOO MOOO MOOOOOOOO MOOO MOO MO

LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
MOOOOO MO MOO MOO MOOOOO, MOOOOO, MOOOOOOO, MOOOOOOOOOOOO, MOOOOOOO MO

INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
MOOOOOOOOO MOOOOOO MOOO MO MOO MOOO MOOOOO MO MOO MOOOOOOOOOO MO MOOO

DAMAGE.
MOOOOO.




1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
m.M.m.  MOOOOOO MOOOO MO MOOOOOOOOOO MO MOOOOO - Mo moo mooooooo m

defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
mooooo mo mooo mooooooooo mooo mooooo mo mooo mo moooooooo mo, moo moo

receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
moooooo m mooooo mo moo moooo (mo moo) moo mooo moo mo mo moooooo m

written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
moooooo moooooooooo mo moo mooooo moo mooooooo moo mooo mooo.  Mo moo

received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
mooooooo moo mooo mo m mooooooo mooooo, moo mooo mooooo moo mooooo mooo

your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
mooo moooooo moooooooooo.  Moo mooooo mo mooooo mooo mooooooo moo mooo

the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
moo moooooooo mooo moo moooo mo moooooo m moooooooooo mooo mo mooo mo m

refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
mooooo.  Mo moo mooooooo moo mooo mooooooooooooo, moo mooooo mo mooooo

providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
moooooooo mo mo moo moo mooooo mo mooo moo m mooooo moooooooooo mo

receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
moooooo moo mooo mooooooooooooo mo mooo mo m mooooo.  Mo moo mooooo mooo

is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
mo mooo moooooooo, moo moo mooooo m mooooo mo moooooo moooooo moooooo

opportunities to fix the problem.
moooooooooooo mo moo moo moooooo.




1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
m.M.m.  Mooooo moo moo moooooo moooo mo moooooooooo mo mooooo moo moooo

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
mo moooooooo m.M.m, mooo mooo mo mooooooo mo moo 'MO-MO' MOOO MO MOOOO

WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
MOOOOOOOOO MO MOO MOOO, MOOOOOO MO MOOOOOO, MOOOOOOOO MOO MOO MOOOOOO MO

WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.
MOOOOOOOOO MO MOOOOOOOOOOOOOO MO MOOOOOO MOO MOO MOOOOOO.




1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
m.M.m.  Mooo mooooo mo moo moooo moooooooooo mo moooooo moooooo

warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
mooooooooo mo moo moooooooo mo mooooooooo mo moooooo moooo mo moooooo.

If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
Mo moo mooooooooo mo mooooooooo moo moooo mo mooo moooooooo mooooooo moo

law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
moo mo moo moooo mooooooooo mo mooo moooooooo, moo moooooooo moooo mo

interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
moooooooooo mo mooo moo moooooo mooooooooo mo mooooooooo moooooooo mo

the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
moo mooooooooo moooo moo.  Moo mooooooooo mo mooooooooooooooo mo moo

provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.
moooooooo mo mooo moooooooo moooo moo mooo moo moooooooo mooooooooo.




1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
m.M.m.  MOOOOOOOO - Moo moooo mo moooooooo moo mooo moo Mooooooooo, moo

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
moooooooo moooo, moo moooo mo mooooooo mo moo Mooooooooo, mooooo

providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
moooooooo mooooo mo Moooooo Moooooooo-mo mooooooooo moooo mo mooooooooo

with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
mooo mooo moooooooo, moo moo mooooooooo mooooooooo mooo moo mooooooooo,

promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
moooooooo moo mooooooooooo mo Moooooo Moooooooo-mo mooooooooo moooo,

harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
mooooooo mooo moo moooooooo, moooo moo mooooooo, moooooooo moooo mooo,

that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
mooo moooo mooooooo mo mooooooooo mooo moo mo moo moooooooo moooo moo mo

or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
mo moooo mo moooo: (m) mooooooooooo mo mooo mo moo Moooooo Moooooooo-mo

work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
mooo, (m) mooooooooo, mooooooooooo, mo moooooooo mo moooooooo mo moo

Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.
Moooooo Moooooooo-mo mooo, moo (m) moo Mooooo moo moooo.







Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm
Moooooo  m.  Moooooooooo moooo moo Moooooo mo Moooooo Moooooooo-mo




Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
Moooooo Moooooooo-mo mo mooooooooo mooo moo mooo mooooooooooo mo

electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
mooooooooo moooo mo moooooo mooooooo mo moo mooooo moooooo mo moooooooo

including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
moooooooo mooooooo, moo, mooooo-mooo moo moo moooooooo.  Mo mooooo

because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
moooooo mo moo moooooo mo mooooooo mo mooooooooo moo moooooooo mooo

people in all walks of life.
mooooo mo moo moooo mo mooo.




Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
Mooooooooo moo moooooooo moooooo mo moooooo mooooooooo mooo moo

assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
mooooooooo mooo mooo, moo mooooooo mo mooooooo Moooooo Moooooooo-mo'm

goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
moooo moo mooooooo mooo moo Moooooo Moooooooo-mo mooooooooo mooo

remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
mooooo mooooo moooooooo moo moooooooooo mo mooo.  Mo mooo, moo Moooooo

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
Moooooooo Mooooooo Moooooo Mooooooooo moo moooooo mo moooooo m mooooo

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
moo moooooooo mooooo moo Moooooo Moooooooo-mo moo mooooo moooooooooo.

To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
Mo moooo mooo moooo moo Moooooo Moooooooo Mooooooo Moooooo Mooooooooo

and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
moo moo mooo moooooo moo moooooooo moo mooo, moo Mooooooo m moo m

and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.
moo moo Mooooooooo moo mooo mo mooo://moo.moooo.moo.







Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Moooooo m.  Moooooooooo moooo moo Moooooo Moooooooo Mooooooo Moooooo

Foundation
Mooooooooo




The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
Moo Moooooo Moooooooo Mooooooo Moooooo Mooooooooo mo m moo mooooo

501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
moo(m)(m) moooooooooo moooooooooo moooooooo moooo moo mooo mo moo

state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
moooo mo Moooooooooo moo moooooo moo mooooo mooooo mo moo Mooooooo

Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
Moooooo Moooooo.  Moo Mooooooooo'm MOO mo moooooo moo mooooooooooooo

number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
mooooo mo mo-moooooo.  Moo moo(m)(m) mooooo mo mooooo mo

http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
mooo://moooo.moo/moooooooooo.  Moooooooooooo mo moo Moooooo Moooooooo

Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
Mooooooo Moooooo Mooooooooo moo moo mooooooooo mo moo mooo mooooo

permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.
moooooooo mo M.M. moooooo mooo moo mooo moooo'm mooo.




The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Moo Mooooooooo'm moooooooo mooooo mo moooooo mo mooo Moooo Mo. M.

Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
Moooooooo, MO, moooo., moo moo mooooooooo moo moooooooo moo moooooooo

throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
mooooooooo mooooooo moooooooo.  Moo mooooooo mooooo mo moooooo mo

809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
moo Moooo mooo Mooo, Mooo Mooo Mooo, MO moooo, (moo) moo-mooo, moooo

business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
mooooooo@moooo.moo.  Moooo moooooo moooo moo mo mo mooo moooooo

information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
moooooooooo moo mo moooo mo moo Mooooooooo'm moo mooo moo mooooooo

page at http://pglaf.org
mooo mo mooo://moooo.moo




For additional contact information:
Moo mooooooooo moooooo moooooooooo:

     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Mo. Moooooo M. Moooo

     Chief Executive and Director
     Moooo Moooooooo moo Mooooooo

     gbnewby@pglaf.org
     moooooo@moooo.moo







Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Moooooo m.  Moooooooooo moooo Moooooooo mo moo Moooooo Moooooooo

Literary Archive Foundation
Mooooooo Moooooo Mooooooooo




Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
Moooooo Moooooooo-mo moooooo mooo moo mooooo moooooo moooooo mooo

spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
mooooo mooooo moooooo moo moooooooo mo moooo moo moo moooooo mo

increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
mooooooooo moo mooooo mo mooooo mooooo moo mooooooo moooo mooo moo mo

freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
mooooo moooooooooo mo moooooo mooooooo mooo mooooooooo mo moo mooooo

array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
moooo mo moooooooo moooooooo mooooooo moooooooo.  Mooo moooo moooooooo

($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
($m mo $m,moo) moo mooooooooooo moooooooo mo moooooooooo moo mooooo

status with the IRS.
mooooo mooo moo MOO.




The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
Moo Mooooooooo mo moooooooo mo moooooooo mooo moo mooo mooooooooo

charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
moooooooo moo mooooooooo moooooooo mo moo mo mooooo mo moo Mooooo

States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
Mooooo.  Mooooooooo mooooooooooo moo moo moooooo moo mo moooo m

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
mooooooooooo mooooo, mooo moooooooo moo mooo mooo mo mooo moo mooo mo

with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
mooo moooo mooooooooooo.  Mo mo moo moooooo moooooooo mo moooooooo

where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
moooo mo mooo moo mooooooo moooooo mooooooooooo mo mooooooooo.  Mo

SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
MOOO MOOOOOOOO mo moooooooo moo mooooo mo mooooooooo moo moo

particular state visit http://pglaf.org
mooooooooo moooo moooo mooo://moooo.moo




While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
Moooo mo mooooo moo mo moo moooooo moooooooooooo mooo mooooo moooo mo

have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
mooo moo moo moo mooooooooooo mooooooooooo, mo mooo mo mo moooooooooo

against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
moooooo moooooooo moooooooooo moooooooo mooo mooooo mo mooo mooooo moo

approach us with offers to donate.
mooooooo mo mooo mooooo mo mooooo.




International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
Moooooooooooo moooooooo moo mooooooooo mooooooo, moo mo mooooo mooo

any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
moo mooooooooo mooooooooo moo moooooooo mo moooooooo mooooooo mooo

outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.
moooooo moo Mooooo Mooooo.  M.M. mooo moooo moooo moo moooo moooo.




Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
Mooooo moooo moo Moooooo Moooooooo Moo moooo moo moooooo mooooooo

methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
moooooo moo moooooooo.  Moooooooo moo mooooooo mo m mooooo mo moooo

ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
mooo moooooooo mooooo, mooooo mooooooo moo mooooo mooo moooooooo.

To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate
Mo mooooo, mooooo moooo: mooo://moooo.moo/mooooo







Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
Moooooo m.  Moooooo Moooooooooo Moooo Moooooo Moooooooo-mo mooooooooo

works.
moooo.




Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
Moooooooo Moooooo M. Mooo mo moo mooooooooo mo moo Moooooo Moooooooo-mo

concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
moooooo mo m moooooo mo mooooooooo moooo mooo moooo mo mooooo mooooo

with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
mooo mooooo.  Moo mooooo moooo, mo mooooooo moo moooooooooo Moooooo

Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.
Moooooooo-mo mOoooo mooo mooo m moooo moooooo mo moooooooo moooooo.







Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
Moooooo Moooooooo-mo mOoooo moo moooo moooooo mooo moooooo moooooo

editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
mooooooo, moo mo moooo moo moooooooo mo Mooooo Mooooo mo moo M.M.

unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
mooooo m moooooooo mooooo mo mooooooo.  Mooo, mo mo moo moooooooooo

keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.
mooo mOoooo mo mooooooooo mooo moo mooooooooo moooo moooooo.







Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:
Mooo mooooo moooo mo moo Moo mooo moooo moo moo mooo MO mooooo mooooooo:




     http://www.gutenberg.org
     mooo://moo.moooooooo.moo




This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
Mooo Moo mooo mooooooo moooooooooo moooo Moooooo Moooooooo-mo,

including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
moooooooo moo mo mooo moooooooo mo moo Moooooo Moooooooo Mooooooo

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
Moooooo Mooooooooo, moo mo mooo moooooo moo moo mOoooo, moo moo mo

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
moooooooo mo moo moooo mooooooooo mo mooo moooo moo mOoooo.
